A memoir of William Pengelly, of Torquay, F.R.S., geologist : with
a selection from his correspondence / Edited by his daughter, Hester
Pengelly. With a summary of his scientific work, by the Rev. Professor
Ronney.

Pengelly, William, 1812-1894.
London : J. Murray, 1897.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/umn.31951000946576f

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
@112 ilihrary nf

(Elana  5 O -9

Bank `9 37-?
            A MEMOIR

                                                                 OF

WILLIAM PEN GELLY, F.R.S.
II                                        h.
                                                in}.
                            "L1`.f111"6`                       I.`

                                                                    p`

R'

\
                 .I

                   I
                                                                                                                   I!
                                                                                                                       r1\`_.
   L \Q-\t.~. \ H A\{AXLR"

13!. v . I'L~Uv..I.
          A MEMOIR OF

WILLIAM PENGELLY,

                    OF TORQUAY, F.R.S.,

                    GEOLOGIST,

WITH A SELECTION FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE.

                          EDITED BY HIS DAUGHTER,

         HESTER FENGELLY.

    WITH A SUMMARY OF HIS SCIENTIFIC WORK

          BY THE REV. PROFESSOR BONNEY, F.R.S., F.G.S.,

                                          HON. CANON OF MANCHESTER.

                      LONDON:                       STREET.
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE

                                             I897.
                                   LONDON
PRINTED BY \VILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,

        STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS
        'fT5502

7J7               36!?I

rsb`t'                         TO MY MOTHER,

                                       WHOSE LOVING AND UNFAILING SYMPATHY
                                   MADE LIGHT AND PLEASANT TO MY FATHER
                           MUCH WORK WHICH MIGHT OTHERWISE HAVE PROVED

                                                     LABORIOUS AND IRKSOME,

                                                   DEDICATE

                                THIS BOOK.

        ,

                                                                               1

                              nr'rQ";

                                          NW1" U¢)1)

`43,],
                      PREFACE.

                        ---.°'__

IT is to be regretted that circumstances have made it needful

for the author to put into other hands than her own the work

of setting a short preface to the grateful task which she has so

assiduously and lovingly laboured at, and so ably carried through.

The regret experienced  however, somewhat softened by
                        is,
                                                           is
the consideration, that one unconnected with the subject of

the memoir, except by the tie of friendship,                   under less

restraint than his daughter has shown herself to feel, in esti

mating his many sterling qualities, and remarkable capacity.

The biography has been written under no inconsiderable

disadvantage, from the fact that Pengelly was as little anxious

and careful for posthumous fame as he was for celebrity and

notoriety while living. Not only had he neglected to keep any

diary from which many valuable particulars of his life might

have been gleaned, which are now irrecoverably lost, but he

had moreover, in his latter years, destroyed vast quantity of
                                    a

memoranda and correspondence, which would have been of the

greatest service to his biographer. Happily, enough remains

to show what manner of man he was.

How excellent and entertaining a book would have been

given to the world, had Pengelly employed himself on an

autobiography or recorded his reminiscences, may be fairly

judged from the passages penned by himself concerning his
early life, with which the volume so happily opens. In their

transparent truthful simplicity they recall the inimitable veri

similitude of Defoe.

But when one becomes awake to the high pressure under
viii PREFACE.

which the most vigorous years of his life were passed, it will

be readily understood that Pengelly could have kept a diary

only at the sacrifice of some of the important work which he
continually had in hand. In truth, not a minute of his time, for

very many years, could be said to be unemployed, or employed

otherwise than usefully.

   ' In his last days, the present writer, charmed by the interest

of his reminiscent conversation, asked to be allowed to bring

with him some one skilled in shorthand who should, for an

hour or so at a time, take down at least some occasional

recollections of his active years; but he only shook his head,

and murmured,  " Too late!  too  late   "

                                       !

It can scarcely fail to force itself on the reader of the ensuing

pages, that the special note of William Pengelly's character,

apart from the energy, perseverance, clear-sightedness, wit,

and abundant good humour which distinguished him, was his

extraordinary unselfishness. This quality may sometimes be

esteemed to be engendered in people by a love of appro

bation; but this cannot be said to have been the case with

Pengelly. He "stood four-square to all the winds that blew."
No man was ever more ready to oppose what he deemed to be

wrong or erroneous, or more willing to espouse the cause of truth
and justice, as he saw at any cost or inconvenience to himself.
               it,
                          a
From the days when, as cabin-boy, he was accustomed to

read aloud to entertain his messmates, to the time when, as  a

popular lecturer, he had the power of holding large audiences

spell-bound by his eloquence, his first thought was the benefit

he was able to afford to others, his last consideration the

personal profit he might derive from his labours.

This was that caused one who might have stood in the
it

first rank among men of science, in an age prolific of great men,

to confine his residence to the place of his adoption, though on

several occasions he was strongly urged, by those fully capable

of judging of his ability and capacity, to accept one of the

positions offered to him in London, at Oxford, or some other

great centre.
PREFACE.  ix

     It was indeed fortunate, for the cause of one branch of science,

that Pengelly was not possessed with the ambition to engage
in what might have been considered a higher or wider sphere.
In that case the important cave explorations at Brixham and
Torquay, to which he devoted himself heart and soul with
untiring energy for sixteen years, might have been indefinitely
delayed. The result of such delay must have been the post
ponement of the evidence of the antiquity of man, which, by
the aid of the discoveries made in the course of his explorations,

Pengelly was able to set forth so fearlessly, and establish so
clearly, as to put it beyond all danger of refutation, and out of
the pale of reasonable controversy.

     On this important point in the history of the world Pengelly
was one of the first to speak with no uncertain voice, when
many other men of science still held back from full expression
of opinion on the subject.

     It will be well understood that a man so unselfish as
Pengelly, and so devoted not only to the increase of the sum of
human knowledge, but also to its diffusion among his fellow
men, took little heed`of the accumulation of worldly wealth, or
even of providing very amply for the day when his power for
work should fail him. It may, therefore, be told far more in
his honour than in his derogation, that his means, as old age
approached, were such as to cause him no little anxiety. This

induced some of his scientific friends to make appeal to the
Government of the day to place his name on the civil list.
Strange to say, although the memorial was signed by all the
names most eminent in the scientific world, its prayer was

refused by the Gladstonian Government. The only recognition
that was offered was a grant of a sum of money, which was

courteously declined.

     Happily, by a circumstance so remarkable that if it were
introduced into a work of fiction it would be derided as a weak
way of making the story end happily, Pengelly was, during the
last decade of his life, placed in the ease and affluence he so
richly merited, without being beholden to any government aid.
X PREFACE.

     Those persons living, and they are many, who had the good
fortune to hear Pengelly lecture, will bear ready witness to the

complete mastery he always had of his subject, and of the

faculty of imparting his knowledge. Even when speaking upon

abstruse subjects to a mixed audience, he would make his

matter perfectly clear without in any degree appearing to talk
down to the capacity of those he was addressing. In this

respect he would Compare favourably with such masters of

elocution and exposition as Faraday, Tyndall, Huxley, and

Ruskin.

His manner was no less pleasing --and attractive than the

language in which he clothed his ideas was grateful to the ear.

His voice, though not strong, was resonant and impressive.

Perhaps no man has ever passed through the fire of adulation,

flattery, and patronage, more completely unscathed than Pengelly,
or was rendered less vain by the success he met with, and the

society to which he was introduced.

Throughout the most prosperous part of his career he was

ever cordial to the humblest genuine inquirer after knowledge,

and as accessible as he had been when he himself was a

struggling and unknown student, ardently seeking his way
towards the light, destitute of patronage, and unacquainted with

people of wealth and influence.
     In person Pengelly was tall, erect of carriage, spare of habit,

fresh coloured, without marked features, but with a countenance

indued with extraordinary mobility of expression, and lit up by

intelligent eyes that, incessantly twinkling with humour and

kindliness, seemed to speak the feelings by which he was

animated. It is not too much to say that, for-nearly half a

century, the place which he had made his home, acquired a

special lustre and interest from being the residence of William

Pengelly.

The author desires to express her sincere thanks to all those

of her father's correspondents who have kindly permitted the

use of letters which add so greatly to the value and interest of

the work.                            F. S. ELLIS.
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

WILLIAM PENGELLY.  From a portrait by A. 5. Cape           TO FACE PAGE
LOOE, CORNWALL
                                                  Frontzkpiec,.e

PENGELLv's HOME AT TORQUAv                                 16
LOOE ISLAND, CORNWALL                                     40
                                                         118
THE CHEESERING, NEAR LISKEARD                            162
THE ENTRANCE TO KENT's CAVERN

BONE NEEDLE AND OTHER PRE-HISTORIC IMPLEMENTS            182
A TYPICAL TRAY 0F FLINT IMPLEMENTS PREPARED
                                                    FOR

TRANSMISSION                                             208

THE CAVE AT MENTONE                                      214
THE MENTONE SKELETON                                     218

INCISORS OF HvxENA, MACHAIRODUS LATIDENS, AND WOLF       226
               A MEMOIR OF

   WILLIAM PENGELLY.

                                        CHAPTER I.

          EARLY YEARS AT SCHOOL AND AT SEA.

                                        JANUARY, 1812--1830.

WILLIAM PENGELLY was born at East Looe, in Cornwall, on

January 12, 1812, and christened shortly afterwards at the
Parish Church of St. Martin. His father, Richard Pengelly,
was captain of a small coasting vessel, while his mother, whose
maiden name was Prout, belonged to the same family as

Samuel Prout, the famous water-colour artist. She came from

Millbrook Creek, in the parish of Maker, Cornwall. The name
          as the sound implies, Cornish. It
Pengellyit                                                    interpreted
             is is,                     I
                                                                is
                          it
                                                                            B
                                    is
in Bannister's " Glossary of Cornish Names " as signifying "head

of the hazel grove." Though an uncommon surname in other

parts of England,                       not unfrequently met with in Cornwall,

and occasionally in Devonshire.

   Passing his early years in the picturesque fishing village of

Looe,     not surprising that Pengelly acquired a strong

attachment to the sea, which was rendered doubtless the more

intense through hereditary influences, for on his father's side he

was descended from a long line of sailors.

    It however, needless to attempt to trace back the ancestry
       is,
                         it,
of the subject of this memoir, for no one ever took less heed of

the matter than himself. In later years he was constantly
written to about as people persisted in supposing that he be

longed to the same family as Sir Thomas Pengelly, who rose to

be Chief Baron of the Exchequer in 726, and left certain sums

for the discharge of debtors from the gaols of Bodmin and Laun
ceston. In answer to one of the many letters addressed to him

K
2  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [ClL I.

on this subject, Pengelly sent the following characteristic reply :--

" With regard to Sir Thomas Pengelly, I had some years ago a

correspondence respecting him with Mr. Peter Taylor, M.P., whom

I put on the trail of a picture-dealer in London, named Bryant,

who had a portrait of Sir T. Pengelly, and was wont to write me
about it very frequently. I have an impression that Mr. Taylor

bought it. I declined to do so, as I don't care to claim any

connection with him." Later on, he writes, ." The Parish of
Whitchurch, near Tavistock, appears to have been a great home

of the Pengellys, and the church, I am told, is rich in their
monuments, but I have never seen it."

     When little more than an infant, he was sent to the Dame's

school in his native village, where his progress in learning was so
rapid that, before he was five years old, his mother betook herself
to Mr. Rundle, the master of a school for bigger boys, to arrange
for her son being taught there, with the result that he declined to
take so young a pupil. Not long afterwards, when walking down

the street the schoolmaster happened to pass the Pengellys'
house at the open door of which the child was sitting, engaged
in his favourite occupation of reading the Bible aloud, and the
wonderful fluency and accuracy of the reading so greatly im
pressed the pedagogue, that he entered with the announcement,

"Mrs. Pengelly, you may send your son to me at once, I was

not in the least aware that he was so advanced."

     The life destined to endure for upwards of fourscore years,
and to be productive of so much valuable work, ran the risk of

being cut short by an accident at a very early period.
     The particulars of the occurrence have been preserved by

a friend who heard them from Pengelly's own lips, when he was

one day descanting on the fact that circumstances which appear
in themselves trivial may materially affect the whole course of
a man's life. The trivial circumstance referred to in his own
case was the arrival of an aunt, on a visit to his parents, one day
sooner than she had been expected. Early the following morning,
when sitting at her bedroom window, wrapped in a thick woollen
shawl, she was horrified to see her little nephew Wiliam rushing
out of the house enveloped in flames. She hurried after him,

and managed to stifle the fire with her woollen garment, and

thus saved the child's life, though she was so badly burnt her
self, that she carried the scars till her dying day. The little boy
had got up early, as was his wont, and had set about to kindle a
l'  1_.""I I{'.rr,'iJ9f'e'1fi.f;a.. g.2'  1..  n-.1.v,
                                           a       ' \.

LOOE, CORNWALL.                                          [To farep. 2.
[Sm--1830.]  SEAFARING EXPERIENCES.                                   3

fire, that he might go on with his lessons before any one else in

the house was astir, with the result that he set light to his

clothes, and except for the premature arrival of his aunt, must

certainly have been burnt to death.

    At Mr. Rundle's school he remained until twelve years old,

when he accompanied his father to sea. Though study was

always a great pleasure to him, his school life could not have

been particularly happy, as the unusual abilities he possessed were

quickly discovered by the elder boys, who used very forcible

means to keep him hard at work during play-hours, preparing

their lessons, in addition to his own; thus exemplifying how

unenviable is the position of a very small boy as the head of a

school. He never received any external instruction or intellec

tual training after the age of twelve. When it is remembered

how imperfect his education must have been, it is indeed remark

able that, by his unaided abilities and industry, he should have

succeeded in ultimately winning for himself a distinguished place
amongst the scientific men of his day.

Some account of his seafaring experiences, with descriptions

of his shipmates, can fortunately be given in his own words.
He writes :--

I"Our voyages were short.                        do not remember an instance of being

at sea more than three consecutive days ; so that, except when "wind
bound,' we were almost always taking in or taking out cargo. The
work was hard, but the food was abundant, and on the whole the life,

thou"ghToromugeh--, twhainskninotg  unpleasant.  the  pecuniary  aspect of the question--

                                    nothing of
the most enjoyable occasions were those which fierce contrary winds
brought us, when we had to seek some harbour of refuge. These were

by no means necessarily holidays, for, if the weather were dry, advantage
was taken of the enforced leisure, to give our craft a thorough cleaning,
or to repair her rigging, or to make up the books. Moreover the crew
employed me to write letters to their wives from their dictation. These
epistles were generally of a remarkable character, and some of them
remain firmly fixed in my memory. The opening clause, was that
which--so far as my experience went--was invariably employed by the
labouring classes of the period ; ` this comes with my dear love to you,
 hoping it may find you in good health, as it leaves me at present;
' thank God for it.' The foregoing labours disposed of, and foul winds

still prevailing, we had a washing-day ; or, better than all, a bout of
tailoring, which did not generally get beyond repairing, though occa
sionally the ambitious flight of making a pair of trousers was attempted.
IOn tailoring days it was understood that my clothes should be 'repaired

for me, in order that might read aloud for the general benefit. We
assembled in our little cabin, where the stitching and smoking went on
4                             \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CH. I.

simultaneously, and with great vigour. My poor library consisted of a
Bible, the eighth volume of the'Spertat`or,                   wJhoihcnhsoIn'sha` vEenglsiosmh eDicitdioenaarwy,a's
a volume of the Weekly Alisrellany,
published at Sherborne, the history of `Iohn Gilpin,' `Baron Mun
chausen's Travels,' Walkinghame's `Arithmetic,' and a book of songs.
My hearers
                wI erpeleansoetd,vetrhyoufgahs,tiditoruutsh,  but allowed me to read      pretty
much what                                                     to tell, the Sperlator was  not a

favourite; some portions of it were held to be nonsensical, and others
were considered to be so lacking in truthfulness, that it was generally
termed the ` Lying Book.' This ill repute was largely due to the story
of Fadallah
                (No.   578).    Walkinghame                   was   by no means unpopular.
I occasionally   read  some   of the questions,               and  my shipmates endeavoured

to solve them mentally; and as the answers were all given by the

author, I had to declare who had made the nearest guess, for it was
very often but little more. Of all the questions, none excited so much
interest as that which asks, What will be the cost of shoeing a horse,
at a farthing for the first nail, two for the second, and so on in

geometrical progression for thirty-two nails, and which gives for the
answer a sum but little short of four and a half million pounds sterling.
This was so utterly unexpected, that it went far to confer on Walking

hame the same name that Fadallah had given to the Spermtar."

      Pengelly relates some of the experiences which he had heard
from different members of the crew, beginning with those of his

father the captain, who, as a boy, had been brought up on
his uncle's farm, but wearying of the life there, was turning
his thoughts towards seafaring, and while still in doubt was

determined by what he deemed divine direction. As is common
among men of Keltic origin, Richard Pengelly had a firm belief

in supernatural appearances, and his son describes how this
belief influenced his way of life.

      " Our skipper had no doubt whatever that ghosts sometimes
appeared, and he held that they were sometimes sent in answer to
prayer. Indeed, his firm belief that he had seen his father's spirit,
altered the whole course of his life. After completing his fifteenth
year he was thinking of going to sea. When he was sixteen, his father,
who was a sailor, was drowned almost within sight of his home. The
effect on the boy was to make him pause, and on his friends, to urge
him to give up the idea. For some months these influences kept him
quiet, but at length his restlessness returned so strongly, that he would
have gone to sea at once, had he felt satisfied that his father would
have approved the step. To ascertain this point he prayed frequently
and earnestly that his father's spirit might be allowed to appear to him,
with a pleasing or frowning aspect, according as he might approve or
disapprove. At length, he believed his prayer to have been answered,
and that`when in the field ploughing, he saw his father, who passed by
looking intently and smilingly at him. This decided him. He became
a sailor at seventeen, and as such died at a good old age."
  [812--1830.]       JOHN PENGELLY--THE MATE.                                        5

      It will have been seen that young Pengelly's labours as an

  amanuensis were much appreciated at sea, but his great con

  versational powers were not equally valued, and his comrades
  used sometimes to say, " Here, Bill, put up a mop and talk to
  that, for we have not time to listen to you." The mate of the
  vessel, John Pengelly, was an elder brother of the boy's father,
  and the only member of the family who had ever been engaged
  in smuggling, then so common in England. His early life had
  on this account been full of stirring and hair-breadth escapes,
  certain of which are thus described by his nephew.

    " The mate's life had been one of considerable adventure. Almost

  from his infancy he had been a smuggler, and to the excitement of that
  career, he had occasionally added those of a privateer. He had an

  unconquerable aversion to the Royal Navy, as was manifested by the
  following incident. The smuggling cutter to which he belonged was

  chased by a frigate, and just before sunset was overtaken near the
  Scilly Isles. Though a part of her contraband cargo had been disposed

  of, sufficient remained on board to condemn her. She was accordingly
  made a prize of ; her crew were transferred to the frigate, from which

  a prize-crew was sent with orders to take the cutter to Plymouth.
  During the great French war, it was usual for trading and smuggling
  vessels to have concealed ` berths,' in which to secrete such members

  of the crew as were liable to be taken in the event of a visit from the

  press-gang. When he saw that the cutter must be captured and con
  demned, our mate retired to one of these concealed berths, but in his

  hurry left part of his dress projecting, so that the sliding panel was not

completely closed.

    "After parting with the frigate, some members of the prize crew
proceeded to investigate the cutter, in the hope of meeting with articles
  of dress or other waifs which they might appropriate. One of them
  catching sight of the projecting portion of dress just mentioned, took
  hold of and by tugging, opened the panel, exclaiming as he did so:
`

              a it,
  Here's pair of blue trousers.' Yes,' said their proprietor, and here's
                                  a                                    a`
  aman      to  wear them.'  taken      `to the prize-master,or lieutenant                it. :in charge,
        "       was at once
           He                               `
                                               `
who received him kindly, expressed his regret that he was unwilling to
                                             is
serve the king, but added that, since he was not willing, he could not
be blamed for concealing himself in the hope of escaping. He thenaI
said You know the cutter better than do. Come below, and help
    :
        `

                  a
me to get glass of grog.' Whilst in the cabin together, message

was sent to the effect that there was light ahead which they were

nearing rapidly. He replied, It the frigate, probably. Keep under

I`her lee.' Very soon after, second messenger came down, who said

   It doesn't look like a ship's light, sir. We are getting very near
    wish you'd come on deck.' What nonsense!' said he, `it must be

  the ship.' Then, turning to the smuggler, he said, `Come on deck,
my man; must put you on board the frigate now.' When arrived on
           I
6                                 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CH. I.

deck, he was satisfied it was not a ship's light, but did not know what

light it was. The captured man at once said, ` It is the Longships
lighthouse. We
about at once.'            shall  be on the rocks in five minutes, unless you put
                           ` For
                                  God's sake, take the helm, if you know the coast,'

`Isaid the officer. `We are none of us well acquainted with it.'
     "reply,kn`oawndevIewryillrotackke   and creek   between   this and Plymouth,' was
the                                                  you will  promise, on your honour,
                                         charge, if

to set me ashore perfectly free before you report the prize at Plymouth ;

but if you will not, we will all go to the bottom together.' `On my
honour, I'll do so.' ` Then, stand by. About ship ; hard lee l ' shouted
the smuggler ; and the cutter, almost within the breakers, answered her
helm in a moment, as he knew she would. For a time all was breath

less suspense, which was not relieved until the pilot, as he may now be

called, relinquished the helm to him from whom he had taken
remarking as he did so, You may keep her full, as we are all safe for                        a
the present.' Then, taking the prize-master to the cabin, he pointeda
out on the chart, the Rundle Stone, the Wolf Rock, and other dangers`                               it ; it,
near the Land's End, as well as the Stags off the Lizard Point, and
stated that he would undertake to pilot the craft to Penlee Point at the

entrance to Plymouth Sound, on the understanding that he was set

ashore there. This was at once agreed to, and was duly carried into
effect early the next morning. This was by no means his only narrow
escape of becoming a man-of-war's man. During the last seven years
of the great war, he seven times fell into the clutches of the press-gang.
On each of these occasions, he was taken on board sea-going ship,
                                                     a
                                                                               a
and his name was entered on her books; but in no more than one

instance, when he was taken to the West Indies, did his enforced
service extend beyond few days, as in every other case he succeeded
in running very soon after being captured, as he ultimately did from
his West Indian ship also.`
     "On returning from this foreign cruise, his ship was ordered to the
Cove of Cork, near Queenstown; and day or two after arriving there,if
a boat's crew, of which he was one, were sent 'under charge of mid'
shipman to Haulbowling Island to make spun-yam. Whilst engaged
in their work, they all agreed `to run,' and not to return to the ship.

The following was their programme. On finishing their work and
getting into their boat,                                                                       allow
them to go to Cork to             the    coxswain was to ask    theIfmhideshcoipnmseanntedto,  well
                                  get    `something to drink.'
but not, they were nevertheless to go. In any case, they were `to
run' the mement they reached the shore, and, possible, all in different
                                                               if

                                                                                   a
directions. They were so fortunate as to get a reluctant consent from the

officer to go to Cove, and on touching the Strand, they simultaneously
leaped ashore and fled. Our mate and another man took the same

direction, the former having .a good start ahead, and to them the

midshipman gave chase. Just as our fugitive turned                                    sharp corner
of the street, he passed young woman who had seen and at once
                                        a

comprehended the affair. Her house happened to be the first round

the corner, and as he was passing the open doorway she pushed him

in, followed him, and immediately secured the door. Thinking

possible that she had been observed, and that her house would be
          1312--1830.]             A SHIPMATE'S STORY.                                                        7

          searched in consequence, she hurried her involuntary guest to a bedit,
          room, took the bed aud bedclothes off the bedstead, bade him lie on hisa
          face on the sacking, with his nose and mouth in an aperture betweenit
          the lacing, and then replaced the bed and bedclothes; in short, she        a

0T a      `made up' the bed on him. In the course of the day her suspicions
          were realized. The house was thoroughly searched by a party of
         a
          marines from the ship, who not 'only looked under the bed where the
          fugitive lay, but crept under examining the floor for trap-doors. On
          the following day they came again and made similar search, but never
          thought of examining the bed itself, and hence failed to find the man.
          Whilst lying there secreted, his generous hostess fed him through the

          aperture his nose and mouth occupied. He remained prisoner in her

          house for ten days, when, the ship having sailed, she secured him an
          opportunity of working his passage to England in a vessel proceeding
          thither. Before leaving, he had to inform her that was utterly out of

          his power to make her any remuneration, as the clothes he wore were

          his only property; and he asked her what had induced her to show such
          great kindness to an entire stranger. She replied that her only brother,

            sailor, had been impressed, was serving against his will on board a
          ship-of-war, and would certainly take the first opportunity of running.
          Hence her sympathy with him. She expected no recompense, but hoped
          that some one would be ready, necessary, to do for her brother what

          she had done for him."
                                   a
               Another of Pengelly's favourite stories related to shipmate
          named George, in whom he had always taken lively interest,if
          and of whom he writes--
                                                                      a
                                                                               a

               "George was a man having an experience utterly unlike that of
          either the captain or the mate. He was the son of well-educated
                                                                      a

          father, who, having failed to make proper use of the opportunities put

          in his way, had remained poor but by no means respectable relation.
               add to his sins of commission and of omission, he taught his only

          child to love strong drink, and to hate his wealthy relatives; and he
                                                                                                     To the end
          allowed the streets and quays to complete his education.                                               '
          of his life his son was ignorant of the alphabet.
          " George's early seafaring career was in merchant-vessels, in none of
          which does he appear to have remained long. The last of the series
          was large brig belonging to merchants in the north of England, and
          bound to some foreign port. Not long after they had got clear of the
          Channel, one of the crew sickened and died. He was followed by

          another and another, until the captain, George, and                                        boy, alone
                                   I

                                                                            a
                                                                                          a
                                                                                                  a
          remained. Before reaching this very alarming condition, the ship's

          head had, of course, been turned towards England, and some progress

          had been made thitherward. One evening, the weather being moderate,
          the captain said, `George, will lie down on the locker for an hour or
                  Call me at ten
          two."  At the appointed  o'clock, and then you  can   have     spell                       below.'  at
                                     hour George went to  call  him,  leaving                        the boy

          the helm; but seeing, by the light he carried, too-well-known expres

          sion on his face, he felt convinced that the disease had seized him, and
8  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [Cl-l. I.

stood a short time watching him. As he did so, he heard him say,
` My dear Peggy,' and with his wife's name on his lips he died, leaving
the brig in the hands of a young man and a boy, both ignorant not only

Iof navigation but of the mere art of reading.

     "At this part of his tale have seen my old shipmate, who had

subsequently faced death in many forms, so overcome with emotion as to
be utterly unable to proceed for some time. For a few days the weather

continued moderate, and they kept on the course which they had been

steering at the captain's decease. At length it began to blow heavily
about sunset, and they attempted to reef the fore-and-aft mainsail; but

whilst thus engaged, the main-boom struck George so heavily as to

prostrate him. He lay for some time on the deck in an unconscious

state, from which he awoke to find the brig driving before the wind, and

the boy standing by him crying bitterly. He brought her back to her

course, but she had too much canvas spread; before morning, however,
some of the sails were blown from their ropes.

      "Where they were they had no idea, nor had they any hope of
being seen by a passing ship; for the gale, having blown itself out, was
succeeded by a dense fog. The only thing they could do was to steer
in the direction in which they supposed England lay.

     "At length the fog cleared off, and they were delighted to find

themselves not far from land--land, too, with which George was well
acquainted. He found they had come up channel, and were abreast of
the Start Point. A few hours enabled him to sail into Dartmouth
harbour, with which he was familiar, where without delay he handed the
vessel and boy over to the care of the authorities, and made a statement
before the magistrates of all that happened. This done, he started for
Plymouth, and feeling sick of the merchant service, entered on board a
ship-of-war, which in a few days sailed for a foreign station. For many
years he remained a true man-of-war's man, and was at length invalided

on a pension, the amount of which brings out his character prominently.
      "When the admirals, before whom he had to appear in order to

obtain his discharge, told him that he was to receive twenty pounds a

year in consideration of his long services, and of the wounds he had
received, theyv asked where and how it should be made payable.

    "He replied that he should wish to receive it at his native place,

which he named, and in quarterly payments, and added : ` Your

I Ihonours will see that must drink the king's health when receive
Imy money, and as should not wish to change the five-pound note,

perhaps you will let me have an extra shilling each quarter.' This
suggestion, at once loyal and prudent, met the cordial approval of the
court, and the additional shilling a quarter was secured to him. His
wife, however, has often told me, that it was the shilling, which in many
cases he did not change, but carefully brought to her, after the five
pounds had been expended in drinking his majesty's health. During
his long service in the Royal Navy he visited many foreign stations,
the Mediterranean, the Cape of Good Hope, both the Indies, and
Madagascar and the neighbouring islands. He appeared to have
availed himself of every opportunity of visiting noteworthy and famous
localities and objects, and he often gave minute descriptions of
1812--1830.]              GEORGE'S ADVENTURES.                                             9

Gibraltar, Malta, Bombay, the Cave of Elephanta, the Isle of France
and Madagascar, as well as of the strange animals he had seen. One
of the latter secured for him a nickname, by which he was better known

than by that given him at the font. The animal which he chiefly
delighted to describe was one of the flying squirrels, which he, however,
always called a `flying fox.' The idea of a fox having the power of

flight was so much too large for his customary auditors, that they
                     and to mark their estimation of the tale, called
utterly rejected  it,
George `Old Flying Fox.' With a literary shipmate, who had readit
him the story several times, he had made study of all the localities in
the Isle of France connected with St. Pierre's tale of `Paul and
Virginia.' The same crony had often read him the `Paradise Lost';a

                                                             it
and George, whilst tailoring, would sketch the outline of the poem,
concluding with the invariable remark that was very deep book.'
                                                                           `
                                                                             a

Indeed, he regarded                      as the exclusive privilege of the most talented
and learned men fully to comprehend it. My first acquaintance with
the character of the works just named was made through the oral
descriptions of my shipmate, and when subsequently read them,
                                                          I                              it a I

was greatly surprised to find how faithful his sketches were. His
pension was clogged with no other condition than that he should not
ship on board vessels trading to foreign ports, thus leaving him at full
liberty to form part of coasting crew.
    "His favourite beverage was beer, of which he could carry off
         I
                                      a                      it,  `losing his reckoning.'
enormous quantities without, as he phrased
              only once knew him utterly incapable of taking care of
Indeed,
himself. He was very garrulous, but never quarrelsome, when tipsy.
At one well-known stage in his inebriation, he became religious, would
talk much and with great admiration of the labours of the well-known
`Boatswain Smith,' and quote Scripture largely. Propped against the
bulwarks, he would hold forth at great length, and certainly not cease
without repeating the text, He brought me up also out of an horrible
pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon rock, and establishedI
                                 `                        '
                                        a                               a
my goings.' On pronouncing the last words, he would commence an

illustrative march, and usually gave evidence that his goings were not

very firmly established.                 once witnessed an amusing conflict between
the poor fellow's respect for his `promise and his love of drink. One
of our crew'" had been rescued from drowning by an innkeeper, at
whose house our skipper, by way of showing his gratitude, gave a supper
to the crew, the landlord, and few friends. George, on being invited
stated that he would. gladly be of the party, but that, on account of
quarrel with the innkeeper, he had made `promise' never to drink
                                                          a

again in his house. This was met by the remark that the promise did

not extend to eating, and that he should be left at perfect liberty to
drink or not, as he pleased. On this understanding he came. As

may be supposed he was good deal chalfed, but this he managed to

bear with great firmness and good temper. At length, however,
                                         a
                                                       a
was unluckily suggested by some one, that there was nothing in his
`promise' to prevent his taking glass of beer outside the house and
drinking there. At this compromise he caught eagerly, and marched
         it

                          °" William Pengelly himself.
IO                  WILLIAM PEN GELLY.  [C H. I.

gravely to the door every few minutes, drank his beer, and then

resumed his seat. At length the captain argued that if he had put
his head out of the window of the room and took his draught, his

`promise' would be by no means broken, as he certainly would not
be ` drinking in the house.'

     "George, aided by the potations he had already taken, was con
vinced by this logic, and at once acted on the suggestion. At length

Ithe innkeeper, desirous of reconciliation, thus addressed him: ` George,

my boy, am very sorry that there was ever any misunderstanding

between us. There's my hand, and here's my heart, and I love you
Iflike a brother, don't take the trouble to put your head out of the
window any longer.  you must do something of the kind, here's a
large corner cupboard with nothing in it; put your head into that and
drink.' The speech and suggestion were cheered by the party, and
the landlord was declared to have behaved like a man. George seized

the proffered hand, informed the innkeeper that he bore a strong
resemblance to `Boatswain Smith,' and then proceeded to go seriously
through the farce of keeping his `promise' in the manner just pre

scribed."

     The account of Pengelly's shipmates has been given at some
length, so as to enable the reader to form an estimate of the

companions amongst whom he was thrown during his most
susceptible years, and thereby understand something of the
conditions of life at sea, early in the present century. His
escape from drowning (which has been mentioned, in connec
tion with the supper at which "George" had such a struggle

with his conscience) was not the only preservation from great
peril for which he had to be thankful whilst engaged in a sea
faring life. Together with the rest of the crew, he suffered ship
wreck during a violent gale, and on two subsequent occasions

he was rescued from drowning, once after so long an immersion,
that animation could only be restored with extreme difficulty.

     Space forbids our dwelling on many other incidents of his
boyhood, but the following account of a remarkable danger

from which he was delivered is worth recording.
     One bitterly cold night at sea, he and some of the other

sailors having closed the cabin door and lit a charcoal fire, had
all fallen asleep, when fortunately one of the crew entered the
cabin. He found the greatest difficulty in awakening his com

rades to sufficient consciousness to enable them to stumble up

on deck and get a breath of fresh air, for their sleep had well
nigh become that of death. The strong and hardy seamen

soon recovered, but the boy was so seriously affected that, long
after he had been carried upon deck, he could not be roused,
1812--1830.]  "'ILLIAM'S CHARACTERISTICS.  II

and was only restored to consciousness by means of prolonged
exertions on the part of his shipmates.

      When in his sixteenth year he lost his younger brother,
Richard Pengelly, who had been seriously hurt during some

school games. It was soon found that the child's illness would

terminate fatally, but his kindly nature prevented him from
revealing the name of the boy who had injured him, though he
was frequently urged to do so. After his sad death, their

mother was too anxious about her only surviving son, to be

happy whilst he remained at sea. By her urgent wish, her son
William returned home, and thus his seafaring life came to an

end. The courage and self-reliance which he had gained as a
young sailor were, no doubt, most useful to him all through his
career, and though the life must have been one of some tempta--
tion, he seems to have been singularly unharmed by it. He

was always moderate in speech, at a time when oaths were
not uncommon, and consistently abstemious, when hard drink
ing was almost universal. In later years he became a total

abstainer, and never took any alcoholic beverage, even when
urged to do so by medical advice. Those who consider for a

moment the many allurements to evil that beset a youthful sailor's
life, will appreciate the strength of mind and nobility of character

which enabled the young mariner to escape them unscathed.
     The keen sense of humour, high spirits, and love of fun,

which made Pengelly so much liked at sea, rendered him after

wards equally popular with his pupils and scientific colleagues.
      No doubt his unfailing cheerfulness greatly assisted him to

overcome the difficulties and anxieties that are always incidental _
to a long and active life ; but joined to this sapguine disposition,
he possessed in large measure the extreme sensitiveness and
highly-organized nature which is so often a characteristic of
men of Keltic origin.

    It was a perfect passion with him ever to side with the

victims of injury or oppression, and though in later life he bore
misrepresentations of his own scientific work most cheerfully,

he was instantly roused to indignation by any injustice shown
to his friends, or even to entire strangers. The knowledge of
unfairness of any kind, or even the receipt of a distressing
letter, would be sure to give him a weary and sleepless night.

It was his nature to be perfectly honest and truthful, and his

sympathies remained undimmed to the end of his life.
I2                         \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                           [CIL II.

                           CHAPTER II.

    HIS SCHOOL AT TORQUAY AND FIRST MARRIAGE.

                           1830 TO END or 1847.

FOR a few years after giving up the sea, Pengelly lived at Looe,
but of this time little record remains. It
                           a                                            however, certain
                                      is
that, notwithstanding the severe labours he was engaged in         is,

during the day for a bare maintenance, he nevertheless devoted

many hours of every night to study, with the determination to
make himself a master of the science of mathematics. This

difficult task he carried on, not only without tuition, but also

under the great disadvantage of not possessing any really good
books on the subject. In spite of these drawbacks he succeeded

in attaining such proficiency in his favourite pursuit, that in
                                                                        it
comparatively short time he became a mathematical tutor of
                                                                                 a
no mean order.

    This period of home life           uneventful, but there was one

day that lived happily in his recollection, when he made a

pedestrian journey of more than thirty miles, to Devonport and

back, that being the nearest town where he could procure some

of the books he so earnestly longed for. For this purpose he had

saved up his money for long time, and, needless to say, was
all quickly expended. He returned home with empty pockets,

but feeling rich indeed in having become the possessor of the

works of some standard authors; for while he was specially

devoted to mathematical studies, he was at the same time an

omnivorous reader.

    It will be easily understood that the books thus obtained

opened new world to him, and assisted materially in pro
    I
          a
                        a
moting his intellectual progress.
    He records some years later the history of his self-education.

    "` could               tale unfold' of struggles, long-continued and severe,

during my early pursuit of knowledge.  Icould speak of the intellectual
1830--1847.]                             SELF-EDUCATION.                                                                      r3

isolation of my early years, when panting after information ; no one at
          direct me in
hand to    me onward             my inquiries,  I  to solve my numerous questions, or
to cheer                         in the path
                                                   had resolved to pursue. No book
seller's shop within sixteen miles, and but little money to spend in
                                                            a
                                                               a

                                                                    I
                                                                          I

                                                                                             it,

                                                                                      if
there had been. My only chance of obtaining book was through an
old pedlar, who occasionally visited our village, and of whom bought
my first Euclid.' Well do remember the delight with which, on one
occasion, purchased twenty volumes of books at secondhand bookI`II

                a
shop at Devonport--ay, and the pride, too, with which carried my
treasure in bundle on my shoulder, to my village home, sixteen miles
across the Cornish hills.                could tell, too, of the derision of some of
my acquaintances, the dissuasive advice of others, and the firm, though
kind and well-meant, opposition of my parents. In short, stood all
                                                                         I

but alone few, very few, sympathized or cheered, but many scoffed."
          is

             ;
    It not difficult to see that, though this mental isolation
          a                                                              a
must have been extremely irksome, the determined struggle, and                       a

the self-reliance gained in consequence, tended in remarkable

manner to assist his self-development.

     In fragmentary sketch, hastily written and unfortunately
never completed, my father describes a well-known character
in his native place, whose sayings and doings had made deep
impression on his youthful mind.

"Dick Harper," he writes, "before my time had been a farm--
labourer, but, when knew him, he had grown old though still hale, was
a sort of `odd man,' could assist in loading or unloadingaI
                                                                            a  coasting

vessel, could act as scavenger, supply the place of river bargeman
                                                                   a

aafor day or two, work in a garden, and, in short, turn his hand to
several things, none of which, however, needed much skill. He had
mastered the alphabet, and could spell out word time were given
him, but beyond this his scholastic attainments did not extend. Heaif
had huge fund of good temper and dry humour, and tolerable stock
of stories. According to the villagers, Dick had an answer for every  a

body; in other words, any one began to chaff him, he usually proved
to be fully their equal in that line. He must have been pretty good
                                 if                                      a

                                           a
actor, for during the great French War a press-gang which visited our
village carried him off to ship-of-war, where he played the fool so

continually and consistently that he was set on shore, whilst other
landsmen, no more efficient than he, were retained and converted into

sailors.
      "Dick was sincerely religious, and very fond of hearing religious

"`Ibooks read. He once came to me with the following statement :--

             was working yesterday in Mr. R----'s gardens, and was
              it

                           I
                                   I

                                                          'e
                                                                                      'e

                                                                                                            P'
                                                                                                                   'e
                                                                                                                          'e
there most part of the day reading. When                    went away          left his

b"oMoikltoonn'sthPearasdeiaste,  and     took en up and  look at   en.   'Twas called
                                 Lost."                  tell o'n
                                          Did ever 'ear
"N ow so happened that had heard much of the work, and had.
I4                    \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CH. II.

once caught a glimpse of about two years before, for quarter of an
                      it                                             `
                          it,                                            a

                                        a
                                                `
hour only.     knew that the word Paradise' had caught the old man,
    a
and that he expected                     to be sort of religious tract. Still knew
him well enough to believe he would enjoy when read to him.it ` I`            it I
            I                                             it, it                    I
acco"rd`Oinhglyyerse,plIi'evde----heard  good deal about        and indeed saw once
                      I
                            a
for very short time.                     should be delighted to get an opportunity of
          it. Do you think you                 could borrow it?'
read"ing  dunnow, but I'll try           a if  so be you'll promise  to read  en out loud

to me.'                                                   Get the book, and you shall
     " Oh, by all means that's bargain
                      if ;                     a   !

hear from end to end you wish.'
    "At the close of his next day of gardening at Mr. R
                                                                              5,  my old

friend came to me, and with look of triumph said, I've got en,' and

we at once arranged that, as the days were near their greatest length,
we would, the weather being fine, meet for the purpose of reading at
seven o'clock on Tuesday and Friday evenings, at the head of his orchard.
And there the old man of seventy and the boy of sixteen duly seated
themselves under an apple tree, on mossy bank which commanded
view of the harbour and the sea, and steadily read the Paradise
II
                                          a
                                                a

                                                                         aa
                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                `
                                                                                                                                             a
Lost' through from end to end, and very thoroughly they enjoyed it.
    must make two confessions, however. First, the mythological
allusions puzzled us good deal, but with the aid of small edition of
`johnson's Dictionary' containing                  chapter of the heathen gods and
goddesses, our principal loss was that of time. Secondly, we both
chuckled a good deal over the puns put into the mouths of Satan and
Belial in the sixth book in the matter of the devilish inquiry. Indeed,

had to read that section second time.

    "When we reached the end, the last five lines so impressed us that

we committed them to memory, and when we occasionally met after
wards and had time to do so, each repeated to the other--

          " `Some natural tears they dropt, but wiped them soon               ,
              The world was all before them, where to choose
              Their place of rest, and Providence their guide:
              They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow,
              Through Eden took their solitary way.' "

    It does not appear that whilst acquiring other branches of

knowledge Pengelly paid any special attention to that science

with which his name afterwards became associated.
     His earliest geological experience was not particularly en

couraging      occurred when he was sailor-boy weather-bound
      I
                     ;
                  it

                               a

                                            Ia
                                                         I

                                                                                it

                                                                                                               a
on the Dorsetshire coast, and he used thus to relate :--

  "I..    received my first lesson in geology at Lyme                Regis,   very soon
                                                                        was   observing,
after     had entered my teens. A labourer, whom
                      large stone of blue lias, and thus disclosed fine
accidentally broke
ammonite--the first fossil of any kind that had ever seen or heard of.
1830--r847.]  EARLY GEOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.                                                                             IS

    " In reply to my exclamation--
    " ` VVhat's that?'
    """T`` hIIfehyaowvueorhrkeamadadnrethasedaiBdthibewleitB.hibaleBs,untyeoweurh'd--at
                                                                                         know what 'tis.'  with  it?'
                                                                                          has that to do
    " ` In the Bible we're told there was once a flood that covered all
the world. At that time, all the rocks were mud, and the different
things that were drowned were buried in
                              I                                                          that there's snake that
                                                     it,                                                   a
was buried that way. There are lots of 'em, and other things besides,
in the rocks and stones hereabouts.'                                                                                  I
    "  A snake but where's his head?'
    "
       You must read the Bible, tell 'ee, and
     ``                                                                                  then you'll       find out why
                           !

'tis that some of these snakes in the rocks ain't got no heads. We're

told there, that the seed of the woman shall bruise the serpent's head.
That's how 'tis.' "

     Some years later he was brought second time into contact
with geology, and writes thus of the occurrence :--
                              a
                                            a

                                                         a
    "A few of my brother villagers started                                               reading club, and
became member. We met in dame's schoolroom, at eight o'clock
         a

on every Thursday evening during'the winter; paying no rent, but
finding our own candles and fuel. Our practice was for one member
to read aloud, whilst the others listened. One of our laws secured to
any member the privilege of stopping the reader for the purpose of

asking a question, stating an objection, criticizing, commenting, or

amplifying, and the law was by no means dead letter. Amongst
                              it a
                                                  if

                                                                     a
                                                                            a
other books we read Rowland Hill's `Village Dialogues,' Chalmers'
`Astronomical Discourses,' and Dick's `Christian Philosopher.' The
                              geological section. On reaching this the
`Philosopher' contained

reader paused, announced what was immediately before us, and

remarked that, as geology was very likely to be extremely dry, and as
                                                                                         not decidedly infidel in its
many good men thought         dangerous
teachings, he would propose that the section should not be read. This

was passed by acclamation, and the reader passed on to astronomy."

    While still quite young he was induced by relative of his

mother to settle at Torquay, which, though at that time                                                                 a

itsmall place, was more interesting to his ardent and enthusiastic
nature than his native village. From the following description

   may be judged that life at Looe must have been somewhat

monotonous.

    "I" In the village in which was born and bred," he writes,                                                          knew
                              I

                                                                                    3
every individual, from the worshipful the Mayor down to the scavenger,
and was not uninformed respecting the amount of their incomes, their

rates of expenditure, the letters they received, where they bought their

new garments, what they cost, and who made them whether they lived
         fat of the land, or on the barest gleanings;
on the                                                                                                     in ' short,  their
general  domestic arrangements and concerns."
I6  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [CIL II.

     Shortly after arriving in Torquay, he opened a small day_
school on the Pestalozzian system, and was one of the first to

introduce the use of the chalk and black-board, in giving
instruction. The school rapidly increased, .from six scholars

to thirty, and afterwards to about seventy, and amongst his
assistants he had the advantage of reckoning the Rev. Ebenezer
Jenkins, subsequently well known through his writings, and as
President of the Wesleyan Conference.

      Soon after beginning his career as a schoolmaster the
subject of geology was for a third time brought before his

notice, and in such a manner on this occasion as at once to

arouse him fully. Looking over some books that appeared

likely to be useful to his scholars, he came unexpectedly upon
one volume (published by the Brothers Chambers, with both of

whom he afterwards became well acquainted), which devoted
a single chapter only to Geology. On reading it'carefully
through, he was at once struck by the extent of knowledge
that had been already gained in this department of science,
and with the opportunities of further research which it afl'orded.

     Scientific studies now began to occupy Pengelly's attention,

and he devoted himself with great earnestness to geological
pursuits, although it was many years before he undertook those
investigations in the caves of Devonshire, which were brought
to such a successful conclusion, as to gain for him a foremost

place in the ranks of British geologists. It is remarkable

that his efforts were so successful, for it will have been

seen that his early years had passed without any of those
opportunities of special training which might have proved of
such great assistance to him. But he was a keen observer,
very fond of work, and a capital walker (no mean requisite in
field-geology),-and.having once taken his hammer in hand, he
pursued his investigations with eager delight.

     In 1837 Pengelly married Mary Ann Mudge, who was

related to his mother, and this early marriage put an end to his

cherished scheme of matriculating at the University of Cam
bridge.v His wife's health was always delicate, and he suffered
much anxiety on this account. He also felt acutely the loss of
his eldest boy, who died when only a year old, and often after

wards he spoke of the terrible grief which he endured at the

funeral of his first-born child. It took place on a beautifully
bright sunny day, and the happy stir of life and movement
                             A.
                           4
                           5fi.n}mk.1E..HI.~)Q. Q
minnosz  @202 .5. biases.    Angel                      .8
                                                   .R
1830--1847.]           FIRST RAILWAY JOURNEY.                                          17

around, with all the freshness of the blossoming spring, were in
sharp contrast to his own sorrow and distress. He was always

extremely fond of children, and a most kind and thoughtful

father, but it was some time before his home was again

gladdened by the presence of a little child.
    To the present generation, accustomed to railway journeys,

it may be interesting to have an account of Pengelly's sensa
tions on first travelling by train. He had to go as far as

Taunton by coach, the railway not being extended further
westward at that time. After arriving in London, he writes

thus to an intimate friend :--

I"Nothing of importance having occurred on the road, I have the
less to write; nevertheless    would, were it in my power, describe

Imy sensations in passing along the rail-road ; this, however, is beyond

me. was delighted with such an astonishing application of science,
                       vparreicoiussionstaatniodns.reguIlarciatynnoot f
and also with     the                                                    the  Iarrwaansgepmeerfnetcstly anadt
movements at      the                                                    say

ease during   the first hour.   There was one idea                       that   pIrewsaesntaetdtacihtseedl,f
to my mind    throughout the   entire journey, namely,                    that
Iwith many other things, to the tail of some huge animal in the manner

that boys sometimes treat cats or dogs, and that was drawn along by
its efforts, made in the extremest agony, to free itself from the articles

attached to it."

     In 1837 he was instrumental in the reorganization of the
Torquay Mechanics' Institute, for which he laboured with his
wonted energy. He continued for more than twenty years to

feel a warm interest in the success of the undertaking, and con

tributed greatly to it by the delivery of lectures and affording

other valuable services.

    To one whose love and appreciation of natural science was so
far in advance of what had hitherto been his means of study,

the first opportunity of inspecting the treasures of the British

Museum, and other great institutions in London, was naturally

a period of intense enjoyment.

    At the same time, the delight recorded in the following letters

addressed to his friend, Mr. William Wilson, reads curiously in

the consideration of what the collections were, that came under

the student's view in 1843, as compared with                                  what  they have
grown to be, in another half-century.

     The letters bear the following dates :--

"_`L0na'0n, fune 20, I843.----Yesterday I paid my first visit to the
IBritish Museum, and now find that know little or nothing about it;
Ithe multiplicity of objects confused me.
                                           paid most attention to the

                                                                                    C
IS                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                                     [Cm II.

Ornithological and Zoophytic rooms, in each of which the variety of
Iforms, under which Nature presents

do not think a strait waistcoat will

that I shall go again."
                                                                                     bitesenlfecreesaslalyry.astoInniseheedd   me; still
                                                                                                                              not tell you

    "Landau, fune 3o.--Yesterday morning I called on a medical

student in the London University, who very kindly conducted me
through those parts of the university most interesting to a stranger;
that which struck me most, was the museum of anatomical and

physiological   prIeplaerftatiothnes.       Unfortunately, my                                  friend's time was very
short, so that                         room very reluctantly,                                     and with an earnest

desire to revisit it."

    " London, fuly r.--I went this morning to visit the museum of the
apCnoodsllseiIgbeleshootuofldSsuatryhgienwokhnastt,haaItnsditawcw,oansItavsinaeswry                                           It is im
                                                                                      much     delighted indeed.
                                                                                               everything in the              museum;
                                                                                      nearly    the anatomist and
                                                                                     all that                                 physiolo
gSiosmt ectaimn edsesiIre.thinIkwathsatproobf acbolympeaqruaatilvlye
                                                                                     pleased with each department.
                                                                                      anatomy the best, sometimes
that of morbid anatomy, and sometimes that illustrative of foetal develop
                  I                           they are all best. Some of the fossils
                         I

                                         is,
ment and existence; the fact

are magnificent.        scarcely know which to admire most, the museum,
or the kindness of my guide.
    "After leaving this went to King's College, and accidentally
became acquainted with Mr. Edwards, one of the Professors, and
known to me as an author; he very kindly showed me all he could
then, which was museum of models and apparatus. There saw
    aI                                                                                             it
         I
                                                                                                              I
                 it
                         a                                                                                             if

                                         it
                                                      is
Babbage's calculating machine--at least, so much of as has been per

fected; saw cube several numbers, but do not by any means under
stand the principle on which acts, or the movements of the complicated
                also had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Wheatstone, inventor
machinery.
of the electric telegraph, electric clocks, etc.
                                                                                               II  saw the telegraph at
work on small scale; but this, too, beyond me. Let the self-sufficient
in knowledge visit the London institutions, and he will be cured

"Icurable.ale
            again returned to the Museum and spent some time in the
insect-room, and was very much pleased with the gay attire in which

Nature has decked herself in this department.                                                    found that a consider

able quantity of fossil bones had been set up since my last visit."

    "Landau, fuly 4.--I have called on Mr. Webster, Professor of
Geology at the London University, and found him kind-hearted
                                                                                                   is
simple old gentleman, having no desire to keep his knowledge secret.                                   a
spent some time with him, and had one of the most agreeable chats
I                                                                                                            it
                                                                                                                     a
                  a
                                              is

                                         I
since leaving home. He much afraid that all the movements made
for the improvement of society will be abortive, he rather inclined
to take gloomy view of things.
                                                                                     fear he has been disappointed;
his whole life has been spent in scientific research, and does not
appear to have enriched him. The privileges of the London Univer
sity are not appreciated by the public to the extent that was expected.

     " This letter contains Pengelly's first mention of Babbage and Wheatstone, with
both of whom he afterwards became well acquainted.
1830--1847.]    MUSEUM OF ECONOMIC GEOLOGY.                                           19

IMr. Webster tells me it has almost become a medical school only.

promised him some of the fossil treasures of South Devon; the effect
of this communication was something like that of an electric shock,

the good old man appeared quite delighted."

"london, fuly 5.--Yesterday morning I went in search of the
IMuseum of `Economic Geology' of which
                                                                   have read much, and
Iwhich had been informed, at the British Museum, was at, or near,
ICharing Cross; therefore, to Charing Cross went, and inquired of
Ithe first well-dressed person  met; but he knew nothing about           1
could make nothing of the phrase `Economic Geology.'
                                                                                 I it,
                                                                                      applied
with similar success to at least twenty different persons; by some
was directed to the Adelaide Gallery, by others to the British Museum,

to the Polytechnic, to some Phrenological shops, but most persons

declined to direct, declaring they knew nothing about having never

heard the phrase `Economic Geology' before. At length, philoso
                                                                   it,
                                                                           a
                                                                               it

                                                                                I
phical instrument maker directed me to Craig's Court, into which
went, and met a gentleman, who again directed me out of into
Scotland Yard, on reaching which found the museum of the United
I

              ;it
                              a

                           I
                                I

                                 I

                                                               it
Service; this not being What wanted, recommenced my search, and
was directed by a shoemaker to Craig's Court again, and, on getting
                and very interesting place is. Here are immense
there, found
numbers of polished cubes of marble, sandstones, elvan, granite, and
serpentine, all with tickets containing their names, localities, by whom
presented, and the chief buildings  ningwehllichmathrbelyeshawderbeeeanmeonmgpsltoyetdh.e
The Babbacombe, Ipplepen, and

choicest specimens; another large room contained the metallic
minerals, or ores of metal, with which
                                        was very much interested.
                                        I

                                                                 1.

                                                               I
On leaving this, called on Mr. Edwards, of King's College, who took
       a

               ;I I
me to class of boys, who were being instructed in singing by the
famous Hullah        was much pleased to find that Mr. Edwards could

descend from the pedestal of the teacher, for he sat down among his
pupils, and sang away as heartily as any of them he afterwards told
me he was going regularly through the course. Mr. Hullah found
great difficulty in keeping up the attention of his pupils generally.
They were taking their first lesson in the minor key, and suppose

found           somewhat difficult; nevertheless, several boys answered the
I

            it
questions he put them very expertly and correctly, and on the whole
conclude the boys did very well. On the breaking up of the class,
Mr. Edwards informed me that Mr. Hullah would be at the College

again the next day, and have a larger and more advanced class, and
invited me to call again.* He then took me to Christ Church School,
of which he has been an examiner for the past ten years. This
appears to be an immense place, and should think the boys were
                                    I
very comfortable there."                           I

                                                                       it
                                                                                 it,
"Landon, fuly 11.--On looking over the time                        have spent in
London, find nothing to cause me to repent of coming; will be an
*

    I
important period in my life, many things have occurred since being

        Pengelly had studied the theory of music, was extremely fond of               and sang
well himself, so that this visit must have interested him greatly.
20                                \VILLIAM PENGELLY.            [C H. II.

Ihere, for each of which          would have come up from Devonshire. I
IhwihBtaaihmvvooeevaleenshraosaemadenntedo,a. nRobvuinuIemttreainlmaleagctaatimnui,nacu.llsiatnsefTehdIahasesvtt,hreoeatlthlshaetiorncepvekpiraateIandfidenmswlyussohttmhareivnepbegwreoshbdeeruIerecemnce. oovvumaelIrddyiochuffoorasoou,vmdledbuwattnhsisdepIheeocnhdrhdodepetweora
fdsIotiaorktpgnuronaswemomsnh,eoewtraehnwedrhienabtoIpocukhhrsaoc,vihceaebsusintttoogIpmphepaadhkvieelo.s"snhoooptrhtiacaoflfortpuaunprecphaartsaoitnugsspeaannndd,ytmahnoinddgea;lss,inImdmeaeupdss,t,

    " Southampton, fuly 14.--I find this to be an interesting place; it

possesses a scientific institution, termed the Polytechnic, possessed of a

museum and reading-room, the society has a good many members,

Ilectures are regularly given during the winter, there is no difficulty in
getting an ample supply of lecturers.    visited the museum and found

many good things in but miserably arranged--or rather, not arranged
              I;
at all.                      it,
    "About two miles from the town, on common, an artesian well
   being sunk this Ivisited, but could not get access to the works thisa
was disappointment, nevertheless very much enjoyed the walk. In
I I is                               I                    it
           a                                                  is
                                             a
                                                      aa           ;

                                                                I
                                                                                     ;
                                                                                  it
the afternoon rambled to Netley Abbey, ruin not far from the shores
of Southampton Water, about three miles from the town. To reach

    had to cross the Itchen, on which    steam bridge plies  found the

walk to the ruin very beautiful, considerable part of        by the water,
commanding view of the country, the harbour, and the Isle of Wight.
              ;a
                              it
    found the ruin to be very splendid; though time has done much

injury, the modern barbarians have done much more, both in destroying
and rebuilding the latter being perhaps more destructive of the beauty
of the old pile than the former.         should like to spend some time in
                                      I

the Isle of Wight, but will be altogether useless to think of visiting
    during my brief tarriance here."
it

     During his holidays, Pengelly began to make longer journeys,a

and greatly enjoyed his first expedition to Scotland, country
which he often revisited. He was delighted with the beautiful
scenery of the North and Western Highlands, and the picturesque
islands of the coast. Edinburgh, with its grand situation and

deeply interesting old town, particularly attracted him. Whilst
in the Northern capital he had the advantage of making the

acquaintance of the late Professorjameson, who gave him much
valuable information concerning the geology of the Isle of Arran,

which he was about to visit. The Professor concluded his
remarks with the following hint: "On your return hope you
will call on me again, when the first question shall ask will
probably be, `Did you write your notes on the spot, or at the

Inn at the close of the day?' If you reply, `On the spot,'
                                                          I

                                                                I

                                                                           I
1830--1847.] TORQUAY NATURAL HISTORY socnva.  2r

shall be glad to hear them; but, if not, I am afraid I shall not

think them of much value."

     From that time Pengelly acted on this suggestion, and there
is little doubt that the advice so opportunely given him, when
a young man, greatly helped to form those habits of extreme

accuracy which characterized all his scientific work.
     Mr. Edward Vivian was one of his earliest friends in Torquay,

and the similarity of their tastes, both in scientific and local
matters, tended to foster the friendship thus begun. In 1844,
with the assistance of Mr. Vivian, Dr. Battersby, and other

friends, Pengelly founded the Torquay Natural History Society,

and was untiring in his efforts to contribute to its permament
usefulness, by assisting with gratuitously-given lectures, papers,
and gifts of fossils. His power of organization was great, and
certainly did not mean, as is sometimes the case, doing little
work and taking all the credit.

   A writer in "Natural Science " for May, 1894, thus alludes to

the subject :--

     " It was indeed mainly due to Mr. Pengelly's energy that the autumn

of 1844 witnessed the foundation of the Torquay Natural History
Society. Over its early fortunes he exercised the most watchful care,
and in 1851 he was induced to accept the office of honorary secretary,
an office which he continued uninterruptedly to hold, to the unspeakable
advantage of the Society, for no less than nine-and-thirty years. Under
his guidance it became a scientific power in the county. Year after
year he lectured there, tincturing the locality with his own enthusiasrn ;
and from the Society there ultimately sprang the Museum in Babbacombe
Road, with its admirable local collections. In the reading-room attached
to the Museum there fitly hangs an oil~painting of the man whose indi
viduality is unmistakably marked upon the entire institution--William

Pengelly."

     The following notes from a paper written in 1894 by his old
friend and pupil, Mr. A. R. Hunt, M.A., F.G.S., F.L.S., give
some reminiscences of Pengelly's work at the Museum and show
the pleasant feeling that existed between him and his pupils.

     " Without entering into needless detail, it may be confidently asserted
that the Torquay Natural History Society was founded by a few enthusi
astic naturalists, associated for the sole purpose of mutual assistance in
original research. The founders were able men; but men, however
able, cannot work without books; so these gentlemen devised a plan
by which their individual subscriptions should be augmented for the
purchase of the needful scientific literature. Having much to say, and
22 7 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                         [CH. II.

being able to say it well, they organized lectures, open to the public,
simply and solely for the purpose of turning in the wished-for cash.
These lectures, delivered in the winter season, have continued to the

pres"enOt wdinayg.   .. .   fact  that  the Society  was  founded  by men  of mark,

                    to the

notable visitors and neighbours have often been seen at the lecture-desk,
such as Scoresby, Tylor, W. Froude, Goldwin-Smith, and Sir Samuel
Baker, together with many others of high eminence in their respective
walks of science and culture. .

    "In course of time the Society took up its quarters in the Free
masons' Hall, where Mr. Pengelly's wonderful lectures attracted crowds
of hearers of the most miscellaneous character, and abstruse questions
of astronomy and geology proved attractive to men with no scientific
training whatever. Given a little common sense, and the lecturer
seemed to require nothing more. We have all seen the celebrated
                             `You touch the button; we do          the rest.' Mr.
Kodak advertisement,        said with equal truth, `You come
Pengelly might have                                                 and listen; I
will do the rest. The lecturer's style was quite sui generis. He seemed

to force his hearers to form their own conclusions, rather than to accept

the speaker's opinions. Indeed, these as mere opinions were very

seldom   allowed a          prominent    place.   Astronomy was a favourite subject.
        remember,           as a boy,   hearing  Mr. Pengelly explain and illustrate
I well
the retrograde paths of the planets in the heavens in so perspicuous a
manner that it was impossible not to understand the phenomena. Of
course, in astronomy Mr. Pengelly was not an original worker; but, as

the facts on which he lectured were acknowledged facts, and not
questions of opinion, he was always on safe ground. As a geologist it

was, of course, otherwise; here he was not only an advanced worker,
but in the special branch of cavern deposits he was an authority. When
expounding this, his favourite science, his power was quite extraordinary,
and his courses of elementary lectures were more instructive than any
text-book could be. He used to say that he never wrote his lectures,
or delivered identically the same lecture more than once. A few

skeleton notes seemed to suffice for a text, on which there was always

more to say than time would allow, though the mistake was never made
of attempting to crowd into an hour more than it could contain.
    "At the time the Society occupied the Freemasons' Hall, the
Darwinian theory was comparatively young, and was even more often
than at present the subject of eager controversy. The majority of
naturalists had been brought up in the orthodox belief that plants and
animals had been created perfect at definite times, in the common
acceptation of the meaning of the word creation. Besides this, the six
days of creation was a doctrine very commonly taught and accepted.
Perhaps the two most distinguished naturalists who have made Torquay
their home were Mr. P. H. Gosse, F.R.S., and Mr. Pengelly, F.R.S.,
the former a staunch exponent of the literal Mosaic doctrine of creation,

the latter  an early        convert   to the theory of creation by evolution.  ..
            Pengelly,                have elsewhere stated, remarked at a
    "Mr.                     as I                                              public
meeting that he wanted to hear what Mr. X. knew, not what he thought ,

---a sentiment which is the very key to all true progress, and which
1830--1847.]   GENEROSITY IN CONTROVERSY.                                                                 23

involves building on the firm foundation of what is known, and doubt
ing every scientific assertion based on conjecture. and opinion. The
Apostle's precept, `Prove all things, hold fast that which is good,' is
the very soul of sound research ; but such sentiments can naturally find

no place in the nursery or class-room, where docility is more valued
than scepticism, unless, indeed, in those exceptional cases where the

teachers are fellow-students with the taught.
"This calls to mind another remarkable trait in Mr. Pengelly's
character. As soon as his pupils were men, all idea of teacher and
taught was swept away, and the master did not even seem to appreciate
the incense of his pupils' gratitude. He would far prefer their attacking
him, and so giving him the pleasure of returning the compliment. This
               ofmmeyopf aapepresr,soInraelpliinecdidienntt.he   Mr.
again reminds                                                   most  Pengelly having     publicly
attacked one                                                          rebellious spirit,  fighting

every point, conceding nothing, and even gibbeting my critic in parallel
columns to try and convict him of inaccuracy in his own work. A
`Ifearful`retribution might have been expected ! This is what happened.
Mr. Pengelly quietly said one day,   have read your reply. It                                             of
                                                                a

                                                                     I

                                                                                 is
                                                                                       a

                                                                                                     is,
course, open to me to write a rejoinder; but these controversies must

stop somewhere, and, so far as am concerned,                               intend to let the
               I
                                  a
                                I
subject drop.' Mark the generosity! Though he left me with the last
word in the Transactions of tile Dawns/lire Assoriafion, he went out of
his way to set me at my ease in private as to his future intentions--a
                                                                                   man of the
very important matter to student when his opponent
calibre of Mr. Pengelly. But, on looking back to years of fencing with
my old master, note especially the absolute trust which he always
inspired. It was impossible for him to take mean advantage of an
opponent, or to try and make the worse appear the better'part. To
play science game with him was like playing any game of skill, such
a

as golf, racquets, or lawn-tennis, with gentlemen who can be trusted to
attempt no sharp practice, and to give the benefit of the doubt to their
opponents rather than take themselves. Thus, any one scored
                     it                                               if

                                                                                                           a

point off Mr. Pengelly, he would be the first to proclaim it."

     He worked so unceasingly, as frequently to call forth the
remonstrances of his friends, one of whom writes, in April,

1846--

"I am fearful for you, on hearing of such continual exertions, far
beyond the health of the strongest; continual mental exertion from five
o'clock to midnight  more than any one can bear with impunity,
aa

           I

                                  is
                                     is

                                                                           a

                                                                       it

                                                                    I
especially as you can allow no time for meals. On this account was

pleased to hear you were contemplating giving up your school at
midsummer, and trusting to private tuition alone, which will save you
vast amount of wear and tear, and not materially diminish your
                                                                      will afford, for other
resources,    hope, from the increased time

pursuits. Torquay becoming such large place, and you are such
   public character, that there can be little doubt of your finding full

employment and time for geologizing again,                            and  making  fresh  dis

coveries in the fossil treasures of Torquay."                         '

UM",DWMEMNWL.W`w--__M`A~ _aha ~-___ A; , e_. '
                                     ' A I \ iv"                                   KM
24       WILLIAM PENGELLY.                        [CH. II.

    In 1846, his private pupils had grown to be so numerous

that he was able to give up his school altogether, and become

a tutor of mathematics and the natural sciences.

    His success from this time was extremely rapid, and is most

striking, when it is remembered that he enjoyed so few

advantages of education, was without access to a single good

library, had no influential friends, except those whom his own

ability and worth attracted, and suffered constant anxiety from

having no private means to fall back upon in case of illness.

His pupils were representative of all classes, from the scions of

more than one royal house, and the children of people of dis

tinction, to those in the humbler walks in life. Many of them

afterwards achieved celebrity. He was deeply interested in the

welfare of all, but most particularly in that of the working-men

and lads, whom he taught gratuitously at an evening class that

he had established in 1839, and at which he worked very hard,

after his long day's professional toil. He was always anxious

to encourage a love of knowledge, and to assist in any educa

tional work among the people, wishing that others might have

those advantages which he himself had never had the good

fortune to enjoy. Among his papers, the following note,
"Iwritten about this time, was found:
                                              spent a considerable

part of to-day in turning over ,a host of manuscripts, chiefly

mathematical exercises, including arithmetic, algebra, plane

and spherical trigonometry, and navigation. They are the

results of severe study, under terrible privations; now they are

altogether valueless, and I believe I shall burn them, though it

really pains me to do it."

     One of the earliest of the numerous testimonials presented

to him was from his pupils. It took the form of a valuable

microscope, which he greatly prized, not only for its intrinsic

worth, but also as a proof of the kindness of those who had

cheerfully undertaken the task of getting up the testimonial

as a mark of their appreciation of his work.

    After giving up his school, he was able to find a little more

time for general society. One of his most valued friends at

this period was the Duchess of Manchester, who showed him

great kindness, and took the keenest interest in all his scientific

pursuits. Her death, in the autumn of 1848, was a great sorrow

to him.

    He also became intimate with Sir Culling and Lady Eardley,
1830-1847.]           MATHEMATICAL RECREATION.                                                                                                                        25

who were very desirous that he should accompany their son to
Palestine ; but, interesting as the expedition would have been,
he had regretfully to give it up, as it would have involved too

great a sacrifice of his time and work at Torquay. It will have

been seen how highly he valued mathematical studies, but that

his zeal was surpassed by one of his friends the following
extract from his narrative of a holiday ramble will show.

    "I one day learned that my road lay within a couple of miles of
the rectory of my old mathematical friend D                                  We had been great
friends when he was a curate in a distant part of the country, but had
not met for several years, during which he had been advanced from a

curacy of about £80 to a rectory of £200 per year, and a residence,

Iin a very secluded district. My time was very short; but, for auld

lang syne, decided to sacrifice a few hours. On reaching the house,
Mr. and Mrs. D---- were fortunately at home, and received me with

Itshaeidir""tTwo` hIotbenetiessfdaunlulolkytwiantdeisoniginxehsstso.wm'ceillroeecskb;aorfefI,lyamnoudvsteIr,raewmahcheuntWterlsyaidu-n--taoc-qnuigahint,tedandwaitsh  it is
Iroad, and with the town when reach                                                                                                                                    the

                                                      cannot remain with you one
                                                     iIt,
minute after eight o'clock.'
                                                                a
     "`Oh, very well,' said D----, `then we must improve the shining      a

hour"s.HavJainnge,   my dear,    be so    good as to  order  tea.'           he returned
                    so said, he   left   the room.           few minutes
                                                      In

with book under his arm, and his hands filled with writing materials,
       `a
                  is

                 I
which    he placed upon the table. Opening the book, he said--                                                                                                        for
      "  This Hind's "Trigonometry," and here's lot of examples

practice. Let us see which can do the greatest number of them by
                      did most of them many years ago, but have not
eight o'clock.                                                               II
                                                                                   I
looked at them since. Suppose we begin at this one '----which he
pointed out--` and take them as they come. We can drink our tea

as  we work, so as  to lose      no time.'
                    said          though
    "`All right,'
       I                                        it  was certainly not the object for
                        I;
which had come out of            my      road.
     " Accordingly we set        to      work.      No words passed between us; the

servant brought in the tray, Mrs. D                   handed us our tea, which we
drank now and then, and the time flew on rapidly. At length, finding

    to"beWe  quarter to eight--
              must stop,' said
it                                       `for in  a  quarter of an hour      must be on

            `
                a

                                    I,

the road.'
      " `Very well. Let us see how our answers agree with those of the

author.'                                                                              had.

    "It proved that he had correctly solved one more than
This point settled, said, Good-bye.'
                    I
                                      `

    "`Good-bye. Do come again as soon as you can. The farmers
know nothing whatever about trigonometry.'
     "We parted at the rectory door, and have never met since; nor

shall we ever do so more, as his decease occurred several years ago.
26                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.           [Cl-I. 11.

During my late long walk to W                 , my mind was chiefly occupied
with the mental isolation of a rural clergyman."

     Pengelly's name being so well known in connection with
Kent's Cavern which had already partially been explored by

the Rev. J. MacEnery, a Roman Catholic priest (to whose

labours he always referred in the warmest terms of apprecia
tion), and again in 1840 by Mr. Godwin Austen, it is worthy of
note that in 1846 he received, in conjunction with Mr. Vivian
and Dr. Battersby, a grant of a small sum from the Torquay
Natural History Society, to enable them to make some further
examination in the cavern. The results obtained were very

valuable to science, but public opinion was not then prepared to

receive some of the most striking conclusions. It was not until
the year 1864 that "at the Bath meeting of the British Associa
tion, mainly by the influence of Sir Charles Lyell, who was then

president, a powerful committee was appointed for the systematic
exploration of the cavern."

     Allusion has been already made to Pengelly's temperate
habits, but his kindness of heart extended even to inebriates, and

occasionally led him into curious adventures. It was well that

he did not expect any gratitude for his assistance, as his help
was often received in quite another spirit. He has recorded one
of these occasions, when he was endeavouring to enact the good

Samaritan, so the incident can be given in his own words.

   I" One cloudy, moonless night, when walking, about ten o'clock, from

a considerable town to my lodging in one of the suburbs, saw some
Ithing lying in the road, and supposed it to be a dog. Having no fond
ness  for any of  the amine, gave it       a  thweidedogbehrtyhp,otbhuetsiss,teIadaiplyprowaacthcheedd,
it.   At length,  feeling sceptical about

and found it a man, fearfully intoxicated. On being raised to his feet,

he fell immediately he was left to himself, and when propped against
the wall his efforts to walk very soon brought him again prostrate in
the middle of the road. To leave him there was to render it very

probable that he would be seriously injured--perhaps killed--before

the morning by some one running over him. Happily, his tongue was
not quite so drunk as his legs, and, after many efforts, he succeeded in

giving me his name and address.
    "Being familiar with the district--another suburb--I decided on
taking him home. The labour was by no means trifling, as the

distance was fully two miles, the night was dark, and he was a heavy
                                                    morning. My knock
man. We reached    his  house  at about one in the  the pleasure of the
was answered by    his  wife,
                               with whom I had

following chat---
1830--1847.]  THE GOOD SAMARITAN'S REWARD.                                 27

`I"` Is this your husband?'                                 no  less       than take

"  `Yes, unfortunately. I wish he was in heaven.'
"
       found him lying in the road, and could do
him home.'

    " ` A pretty story to tell me ! No doubt you've been drinking
with him.'
" `Good
"And in       nthigisht,wamya'Iamdi.s' posed  of my charge  and of hers."
28                       WILLIAM PENGELLY.                   [CH. 111.

                         CHAPTER III.

             HIS GROWING FAME AS A GEOLOGIST.

                                 1848-r850.

SOME letters written by Pengelly to a favourite pupil, with
whose family he was intimate, may be inserted here, inasmuch
as, though they contain no striking incidents, they throw some
light on his opinions, and the great amount of work that he

undertook successfully at this time.

    I" Torguay, October 5, 1848.--. . . Inclosed are the remaining pro
positions of the third book of Euclid.       should wish you to read the

Ifirst book  a second time, and    very thoroughly,  before  oprrolcaeteerd.ingI
             hope my scrawls will  be of use to you  sooner
further.
Ireceived a copy of the paper of which Hugh Miller is editor (the
VVsz) last week, and which have sent you by this post, and find
that he has commenced a new series of papers on his geological
rambles. Are you aware that the Queen has been pleased to confer
knighthood on Lyell the geologist?"

   This is Pengelly's first reference to Sir Charles Lyell, after
wards one of his warmest friends, and with whom he was most

intimately connected during his investigations into the antiquity
of man in Britain. About a hundred letters from Sir Charles
Lyell are preserved amongst Pengelly's papers.

    T" orguay, Odober 12, 1848.'--. . . Our winter visitors are flocking in,
Iand         to be very   fully  oIccsuhpailel d;prombyablpyupihlsavearemounchthleessinclreeisausree,
       hope  time next   month
and by this
Ithan now.
             got two additional members for the Palaeontographical
Ilast night; we are now a goodly number in this place.
                                                             have just
been exhibiting my fossils to a gentleman of Cheltenham, who has a
splendid general fcollection; he sadly broke the tenth commandment
over my Devonians and Silurians (I was not without fears that he would

break an earlier one)! He thinks he can add with great advantage to
my Cretaceous and Oolite specimens, and has kindly promised to
do so. . ."

    " Targuay, 1848.---. . . You say that you are concerned at having
1848--1850.]         ADAMS, DISCOVERY OF NEPTUNE.                                     29

                     much   of my valuable time;    if my time is
                             employ it serviceably
                     I can                            for others.
Itaken up so                                                        really   valuable,
                                                                        do  not think
it is because
that Nichol does Adams justice.* He attempts to excuse, if not to
justify, the neglect of both Airy and Challis. The passage in which
Nichol compares Leverrier to Columbus is very fine, certainly, but not
original; the idea was contained in a speech made by Sir J. Herschel

Iat the meeting of the British Association at Southampton, 1846.

think the passage still finer than that of Nichol; judge for yourself.
The planet had not been discovered, yet Herschel expressed his belief
in its existence thus: `We see it as Columbus saw America from the
shores of Spain. Its movements have been felt along the far-reaching
line of                                                  inferior to ocular
           ou"r  analysis with a certainty       hardly                      demon
stration.

      I"Torquay, October 26, r848.--. . . Be dull as you please about
your geometry.              will try to enlighten you as often as you think fit
to apply to me. . . . Hyperion, the eighth satellite of Saturn, seems to

have been a double discovery, see At/zemzum, October 14th. Pray
how do you know that my geological collection is `already beautiful?'
Come and see then give an opinion. . . My lessons and lectures
                     it,                                 .

                          I                                     .I
leave me but little leisure at present, moreover the committee meetings of
the Mechanics' Institute and Natural History Society must be attended,

so that, on the whole, am tolerably occupied. . .                   have just been
reading Scott's `Lady of the Lake' and had some trouble to close the
book for the purpose of writing you. What a beautiful poem! It
                                                 know the scene perfectly, which
bears reading again and again.
greatly increases my pleasure in the reading. . .I
                                             II  I
      T" orguay, JVoveméer
                                                               ."
                     is I it               r848.--. . . think you are mistaken in
your notion that the inhabitants of the coast do not enjoy the seais
so much as their inland friends; the former doubtless say least aboutit, 6,
      because has no novelty for them, the latter most, because
1 it,            it                                                         it        now!
       it                                                                       a is
and not because                the sea. You and have both seen the sea,
                                                    aI
and have both admired                      yet do not think you would or do pine
                                                             ."
after so much as should, and have, after very few weeks' absence.
really think this point conclusive. The story of the retreating Greeks,
under Xenophon, quite in point, fancy. . .

      "Torquay, [Var/ember 20, r848.---. . . Early last week we learned
that the gentleman who was to have lectured for us this evening could
not do so. As usual in these cases, was asked to supply his place,
                     I is                   it                     good deal to do in
and consented to do so.        aI I II     had consequently  a
                                             I
preparing diagrams. . . am happy to be able to inform you that
                            .

my wife    .     much better, and came downstairs yesterday for the first

             I is
time.   .     . heartily wish could manage a holiday at Christmas, but

it    cannot be.           must `make hay while the sun shines.' . . . Most

sincerely do wish that could spend every evening in a cheerful*
                 I

intellectual circle of about dozen, would do me all the good in the
world.           am sincerely attached to the vocation of the teacher, and
           I

        Prof. John Couch Adams of Cambridge, discoverer of the planet Neptune, an
astronomer, and, better still, a Comirlrman, for whom Pengelly entertained strong
admiration.
3O                              WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                               [CKL Ill.

Iearnestly do I wish that could afford always to do it without pay
Iment.       do not like to be paid                 ftohratthIinckionugl,d              think
                                                                            and to     off the  on stated
subjects,    at stated hours. Would                                         throw
and live                                                                               I have    harness,
              independently, no     matter          how humbly; but                              children
to settle
             in the world, and if   I can           do they shall never pass through
             ;

                 I
                            aI
                                       I

                                                               it,
the fearful struggle that           did. have at this moment a very vivid
                                    late, lonely, and humble supper; the little
recollection of myself at

table at which wrought theoretical and practical mathematics; the
very small pile of books (but oh, how valued] and then how really
valuable!) the wretched light, the fireless grate, the damp cold stone
floor, the aching head, the swollen feet, the shivering frame, and that
which enabled me to bear the whole, the determination to know

something of the beautiful and astonishing universe.                                   thank God
                                                    a
                                                      it
                                                           is

                                                               ;I
                                                                    II
                                                                        I

                                                                                                   's

                                                                               I
that was enabled to persevere, that He has crowned my efforts with
success, and that have a reasonable prospect of competency foraI
myself and family. . . . am very sorry to hear of poor
         it                     II                                                                   great
              it
afliiction,   seems almost too long for merely temporary attack.
                  is
                                                                    not cannot but think
                             `

                     I
hope, however, almost against hope, that
              something wrong in your philosophy or your theology,
that there
when you say, How wonderful
                                              a it  seems such an afi`liction should befal

such thoroughly amiable and intelligent young man.'                                    am far, very
far, from denying the doctrine of particular Providence, but certainly
think        undesirable to call in extraordinary means to explain an

ordinary phenomenon.              believe           to have been very amiable; but

he, or some of his progenitors, may have (and in my opinion certainly
have) broken        law of which his present calamity                                  the unavoidable
              a                                                             is, is

penalty, irrespective of his moral excellence. . . . It as you suppose,
a great pleasure to spend the evening cosily with some favourite author,
but this can only occasionally do. There also pleasure, great
         I                                                          is      a
                                                                                   ;
                                                                                       it

                                                                                                  a
one with me, namely, a game of romps with my children                                           would do

your heart good to see us roll over each other on the floor."

     " Torquay, November 25, r848.--. . .                           am very happy to be able
                                                                    II
                                                                        I
                                                                                   I

                                                                                                            .

                                                                                               I`
to inform you that my wife sufficiently well to be able to send away
                                    it is
her nurse this evening. . . . Once more request you to send meit is
your mathematical difficulties as soon as they occur. You say, am
not to correct them until                     convenient;' promise will not, but

you will allow me to add that will always be convenient?                               . . Before

this reaches you, you will probably have heard that the Duchess of

Manchester    I isdead. She was an excellent woman, eminent for her

piety and good works; as come-at-able and unassuming as she could
                    never felt more at home with any one in my life,
possibly be.                                                        I

                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                           it
really was a treat to have chat with her, as had three times week
at her tea-table during the winters of 1846--47."a is
     " Torquay, February             it 1, a
understand Herschel, but                      r849.---I have no doubt that you could
                                              would require all your mathematics and

much study.         would rather that you deferred                          for some time, more
         .                                                                  it
             .
                                                                                    a
            I
              I
especially as Sir John known to be engaged on more elementary
work. .       went to Exmouth on the 10th ult. The day was very

bright, but there was heavy gale off the coast, which, acting on the
1848--1850.]               A RAMBLE IN WALES.                             31

sea breaking on the shore, blew the spray seaward very beautifully. In
the railway carriage with  me there was an elderly lady and
                                                             her son ; the
latter I judged to be a    midshipman of the Royal Navy,     just returned
from a foreign station, with evidently very shattered health. His mother
Iwas very attentive and kind to him, and directed his attention to the

spray, which have mentioned above. He looked at it for a moment,
and Whilst she exclaimed, ` How very beautiful !' he turned from it with
Ia sigh, and said, in the most heart-breaking tones, ` Oh, mother, have
Iseen quite enough of that lately~quite, quite enough!
                                                             care much less
Iabout the sea than once did.' There was nothing in the words, but
much in his manner of uttering them, which instantly recalled his kind
Imother, and spoke to me of ruined health and disappointed ambition,

and which made me somewhat gloomy till found myself on the

platform. .
    "My
              lecture [at  Exmouth]      Was   well attended, and very    well
received.       Speaking   of lectures,       delivered one yesterday at   the
                                          I

Natural History Society (Torquay) on `Organic Remains,' and have

eleven  more to come on    geology. .         . . And now for geometry;   but,
would                      thought to         put my hand at once upon    your
        you believe it? I
I Ipaper, but cannot find it anywhere. Though cannot remember
I Iwhere .put the paper, do remember that neither of your exercises
were quite right. You really ought to be very angry with me ; but still
I hope  you will not. .
    I"  agree with you     ..            of the  punishment  by death for any

                           in thinking

crime as unchristian, impolitic, and worse than useless."

    "Taryuay, May I2, 1849.-- . . . On Friday I left for Exeter by

the six o'clock train, delivered a lecture on the `Moon' before the
members of the Literary Society at the Athenaeum, finished just in
time for the last train, and reached home just after eleven. . . . Do not

be surprised that you feel some discouragement respecting teaching;
all honest teachers do that. Do the best you can, and leave the result
to Him who will not allow honest endeavours and sincere motives to

go unrewarded."

The correspondence is soon after broken off by the summer

holidays, which Pengelly spent partly in a ramble amidst the

beautiful scenery of the river Wye, and partly in a walking
tour with a friend in South Wales. His letters to his pupil

begin again in the autumn.

   I" Torguay, Sqfiz`embcr 21, 1849.-- . . . am sorry to hear that the
Icholera is so bad with you ; it has been rather alarming here, but am
Ihappy to say that it is better at present.      am far from denying the
doctrine of judgments in the abstract, or that we have not again and

Iagain deserved them as a nation, as well as individually; but hold it
unwise to call in supernatural causes when natural ones will account for

I Iphenomena, and in the present case quite think they will do so.
fully believe that the cholera has a mission, that it will accomplish much
moral and physical good, and that the laws of which it is the penal
sanction are the laws of God. . . ."
32                WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                                                             [CH. III.

     " Torguay, Oclober 20, 1849.- . . . On account of my Cornish

Ijourney was unable to get my letter to you off before. On my
Ijourneys on Thursday and Friday never saw so much to admire in

the autumn tints. The orchards of Devon were looking truly lovely;

rosy-cheeked and golden apples were hanging on the boughs in most
inviting luxuriance ; the wild clematis was climbing every tree and
covering every hedge; the leaves were all in the warmest colours ; here
and there a grey limestone rock showed itself with beautiful effect. . .
mThahasegnbwiefieacnleknattogvrLeaoalloet yef,afvcroohmuarrmitLeiins;gklbeyuatrwdnooowisdeIadt.waasllEavtpiemprreossainclohcevinegIlyc;tahniet
                                                                                                                                                is through a
                                                                                                                                                remember it
                                                                                                                                                home of my
boyhood and of my parents. . . . My reception in the lecture-room at
Looe was very flattering. The audience was very large, every face well
Iknown to me--old schoolmates and playmates, and one or two with

whom had once thought of mating in a more serious sort of way.
And then there was such shaking hands and `How d'ye does !' that
there was some fear about the- lecture beginning at all. But being
begun, it was listened to with an attention that did my heart good.
IThey did not give vocal demonstrations of approval or disapproval from

beginning to end; but could read their eyes, and was more than
satisfied. But didn't they cheer at the close! The president got up

and thanked me, as is usual; sceptics got up and thanked me for having

cured them; ladies and gentlemen came up and shook hands with me
                                              Then came the
again,   and   thanked me individually.    so allowed myself  invitations to
supper.        could not accept them all,                     to be carried
            I
off by a dear old lady with whom my mother came to Looe, and who
has always felt an interest in me.
    "I left next morning at nine; but before doing so, a deputation
Iwaited on me to ascertain whether considered myself a West Looe
Iman or an East Looe
Ion to decide, which
                  man,  as  binotfhormpairntgiesthcelamimethdatmIew, aans dborwnasincaEllaesdt
                   did  by

ILooe".` know that,' said one; `but you were reared in West Looe, and

West Looe is your parish. So if you want parish relief, you will be

sent there !'

    I"This reasoning would have been deemed sufficient, had not
Ihinted that had gained a parish in Tormohun [the old name for

Torquay]."

     " Torquay,   aOaisincdnkoaanbcnoeokwrvainelue2rdtdi5on,g,ggerfra1si8pteh4hne9t,dh.--lybeI--oawesrpri.drlilosr.irts.oe. ninn.Idw.hhihtai.iscvyheIoaunsIr.psewepcneueAditrv.semtdhIyeIfae`gxgyrlpeoeeeoutactltoeteecgrradicr,faeprloahsmtrisot'
Colenso. He
have the letter
reply is written
of my evenings
with blue paper. You would be amused to see me at work. My dear

children call themselves my servants, fetch and carry the boards, and

Ihand me papers, and honestly believe they are helping me, and are

extremely happy in the delusion. . . . forgot to tell you in previous
Inotes to cause your pupils in algebra to get all Colenso's text carefully

up. don't mean by memory, but so as to be able to answer any
1848--1850.]              THE STUDY OF ALGEBRA.                                                                     33

                                       if

                                                        it,
question you may put them respecting                         more especially the demon
strafiae parts. These are of more importance than all the mere rules
in the world. Excuse me, but you only teach them to work algebraic

exercises by the rules, without their being fully acquainted with the
rationale of   these rules, you will have
worse than    that, their time will have     done             nothing      for them; nay,
                                            been                            work algebraic
                                                             lost. To
exercises will not be of use to one lady out of million--they will never
                                            it

                                                       a
go far enough into the science to turn to account in any branch of
natural philosophy; but the habit of close investigation and severe

analytical reasoning acquired by following an author through his
illustration of principle   beyond all value. .
                            is                               .
                                                                     ."
                                    .
" Torquay, 1849.-- . . `Herschel' would not do at all for the
purpose you propose [reading to pupils], but you cannot do better than

study         yourself should you ever get time. Unfortunately,                                               have
         it it                                                                                             .
Darley's intolerably stupid book by all means discontinue the reading
             I                  of                                                                           II; I

                                         5
of such trash, and never allow any book in any department of science,
when arranged in the form dzalogue, to be seen by your pupils they
are quite as likely to remember the blunders of the learners in the chat,
as the corrections of the teacher, perhaps more likely. . .                                                   think

you had better read A's book fairly through, than merely select fine
                need not tell you that do not dislike poetry, but do
passages.                                   .I
dislike out of its place, and certainly think that the flights in which
                                II                  .
he indulges, especially at the end of his chapters, are not only misplaced,

but quite absurd generally.            wish all science could be thrown into the
form of Euclid or reduced to the form of an equation. . .
                                                                                                           ."

                                                                                                                      I
"Torquay, femumy            3,  1850.---- . At my lecture last week

made the acquaintance of Lady Shelley, and her son and daughter.
They attend the lectures at the Royal Institution when in town, which

they usually are. They have been at my house to-day to see my fossils,

with which they profess to be quite delighted.                             am to spend next
                                       I

                                                              ."

                                                         II
Wednesday evening with them.                lectured this evening and met Dr.
                                                                                                           I
Alliott, with whom was greatly pleased. . .                                                                     a
                     .
"Torquay, fanuary 21, 1850.----. . . Since                                 last wrote                            have
                      .a I
been very much occupied in the preparation of lectures, and in reading
mathematics with young student at the East India Company's College
                            . My lectures at the Natural History Society
at Addiscombe.                                               lectured to-day on `The

Museum have been well attended.             I
                                                     I
Physical Constitution of the Sun and Planets.'                             expect to lecture at
Exeter, on Comets, on February rst, and at Exmouth on the Wednesday

following. . . As on former occasions, my lectures at the museum
                .

                      ."
are all gratis. . .

"Bethesda, Nari/z Wales, july               1850.-- . . We left Beaumaris
                                            8,
                                                                        .

at eight am. by omnibus for the Menai Suspension Bridge, and were
set down on the Anglesey side. Our first labour was to descend nearly
to the level of the stream for the purpose of seeing the fastenings of

the bridge, which we accomplished by entering tunnel one hundred
       ;
                                        it

                                                                                           a
                                                                                        is
                                                                                                        a
yards long. This done we crossed the bridge, which                                                         very beautiful

object everything about seems not only useful but also ornamental,

                                                                                                           D
34                                           WILLIAM PENGELLY.                        [CH. III.

and indeed appears to partake more of the latter than the former
quality. We next ascended the Carnarvonshire side, about one mile,
to the tubular bridge, and availed ourselves of the permission given to

walk on it. In this way we again entered Anglesey, and returned by
the same route. What a stupendous monument of human genius and
daring, and what a surpassingly fine view it commands! Almost the
entire range of Carnarvon's giant hills -is visible, and the entire Menai

Strait is spread out before one, looking like a very beautiful river, its
shores covered with sweet villas, hamlets, and rich woods; here and

there small islets add to the beauty of the scene, which is still further
increased by the steamers, ships, and boats on it and Beaumaris Bay.
The ebb tide was running westwards at the rate of fully five miles an
hour. From the bridge we walked to Bangor, and thence to this place.
The distance is about five miles, and a more beautiful road can
scarcely be travelled, it runs by the river nearly the entire way. This

stream commands attention by noisily falling over its rocky bed, its

bank"sWaerereluaxcuhreiadnttlhyis  clothed with beech, larch,           oak, and othertrees.
                                   place about half-past two.             Our sitting-room com

mands a glorious view of the famous Penrhyn slate quarries, the distant

hills, and the ngen. The inhabitants seem to live entirely on slate;

they, by some chemical magic, extract all they need from the mountain

side."

     " Carnarvzm, fuly, 13, 185o.--I leave it to my companion to
describe our triumph in ascending Snowdon yesterday. Whilst break
Iing a few stones for fossils, on the summit of the mountain, a gentleman,
whom     shall call Stranger at present, stood watching me, and at

length the following conversation passed between us :--
    "Stranger. ` Your hammer is rather light for these rocks, sir.'
    "Pengelly. ` It is ; it was made for the Cornish slates, and has done

me good service among them, it has helped to disinter many a fossil

fish.'
    "Stranger. ` Indeed! my old friend, Mr. Peach, has worked a good
Iidttheewali"itnhaPvmeesnsougtncieggclaelytsti.hsoent`oYCeaotshtrenThiaseRhllhaaaminsc,dhetshHisyraeo;nalitddIe-.kbsn.a'oywThI histiomoykewaeirtllI.uph,WaavhenednbehPeaenvaecwhcoordnkritoninpgupeeoddn

Looe Island and have found good specimens; 0n the whole have a
capit"aSl trcaonllgeecrt.ion`       of these ancient
                                                         fishes.'      one  is still  at work  there.
                                   I am really glad     to find some
`IHas"
         Sir Philip                Egerton   seen your  specimens  P'
                                   ` He has  not.'
         Pengelly.

    "Stranger.                     hope the Permian fishes will be shortly given to the

worl"d    in splendid style.'                King of Newcastle,             for the Palaeonto
      "  Pengelly. ` By whom P'
         Stranger. ` By Professor

grap"hiPceanl geSlolyc.iet`yI.n' deed, I am glad to hear that. I am one of the local
secr""etPSaetrrineagsnegloleyrf.:
                                   the Palaeontographical.'

                                    ` And I am the general secretary.'

                                    ` What! are you Bowerbank?'
1848--1850.]    MEETING WITH BOWERBANK.                                                                               35

" Stranger. ` Yes, I am.'
                             I112': card). `
                             think I ought.                    think you will
                                                               We are greatly
    I"Pengelly                                                                           remember my
                                                                                         obliged to you
nam"e,Stsriarn?g'er.
                (presenting

                 ` I should

for the trouble you have taken for the Palaeontographical.                                     hope you
Iwere pleased with Milne Edwards? '
""PIetnigseullyse. les` sIntdoepeudrsuewatsh,i's  etc.              will
                                                   further  ;  you        suppose        that                     an  inter-  _

esting conversation followed, and, amongst other topics, we talked of
the strange manner and place in which we, who had so frequently

corresponded, met for the first time."

     Dr. Bowerbank had written in the spring to introduce Milne
Edwards, who was greatly pleased with Pengelly's corals and

fossil fish, and showed him much kindness when, later on, he

visited Paris.

Pengelly's lectures at the Torquay Natural History Society

became extremely popular, and were attended by large audiences.

Though still poor, he took no payment for these courses of

lectures, which he said were a pleasure to him, and a labour of

love. A thoughtful and attentive audience always gave him
intense encouragement. His friends remonstrated at this dis

regard of his pecuniary interests, one laughingly telling him
"that money was not dirt." But he was quite satisfied to look

on the work itself as the best payment. There is no doubt that

the diffusion of scientific knowledge was much needed in Torquay,

and indeed in other parts of Devonshire, which, though so large

a county in extent and population, and very rich in distinguished
names of artists, authors, prelates, soldiers, and sailors, had not

yet produced any great number of scientific men.

About this time he made the following note :--

"I accidentally met the Earl of Wicklow and Lord Hatherton
Ito-day, who asked me whether delivered the lectures, on which I am
Iat present engaged, on

Natural History Society.
                             my own account, or if am                     engaged                                 by the
                                On being informed that I                   delivered                                them

gratuitously, they thought me wrong in doing so. Lord Hatherton
                                                                                                                  I should
advised me to pack up and    tshsoeatntulneIdieanrmpsaoiddmoienagslarIhgeaermre ,taoaswnadn,letwhcthouuerrgeehr,
doubtless do greatly better                                                                                        adding,
that no man in Torquay is                                                                                         it might

Ibe all very well to

a good thing and a
it a valuable thing,
                preach down money                              in the   pulIpista, idit  nevertheless is
                                   one in this                  world.                    quite thought
                tnheactesIsawrays   very well
                                                               satisfied with Torquay, that the
public had been very liberal to me, and that it became me to be liberal
In return."

Every one associates the name of William Pengelly with
36  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                            [C H. III.

geological research, but it will have been seen that astronomy
also greatly interested him, and that many of his earlier lectures

were on that subject.

    At a soirée in December, 18 50, held in his honour, Pengelly

was presented with a very valuable telescope subscribed for by
several of his friends. The document accompanying the pre
sentation set forth that the signatories of it were desirous of

marking their appreciation of his high scientific attainments
and of the value of the lectures which he had delivered during a
long course of years at the rooms of the Natural History Society
and Mechanics' Institute at Torquay, and at the same time of ex
pressing the great esteem in which they held him personally.
Among the signatures affixed to this address were those of the
Earl of Beverley, Viscount Newark, Lord Hatherton, Lady
Sinclair, Sir John Morrenden, Sir Culling E. Eardley, Lady
Eardley, Lady Shelley, Dr. Sutherland, etc., etc.

     He was deeply touched by this presentation, and thanked
his friends in these words :--

    "Never have I been so desirous    of   correctly     and  I  appropriately
                                      At  no time     have        so decidedly
expressing my thoughts and feelings.
Iregretted my lack of eloquence as at this moment, when accepting this
highly interesting and valuable proof of your munificence.            am

intensely anxious to convey to you a correct idea of my sincere gratitude,
not only for your having judged me worthy of a testimonial from you,
but also for the kind and delicate way in which the funds have been
raised, as well as for the form which you decided your testimonial

I Ishould take. Nothing could have been so gratifying and valuable to

me as a telescope. Never shall forget my intense delight when first

followed the astronomical mathematician, step by step, through the

processes by which he determines the distances, bulks, masses, and
Idensities of the bodies composing the solar system. And not a whit

inferior to this has been the enjoyment with which have occasionally
read a page of that marvellous record, inscribed by the finger of Nature

on rocky tablets, respecting the mighty changes, organic and inorganic,

which have passed over this world during periods incalculably remote.
You must give me no credit for disinterestedness with respect to my
Ipublic lectures; for next to the pleasure of acquiring and possessing
knowledge stands the pleasure of communicating it.               have been

addicted to, and fond of, teaching from my earliest years. The fact

that the same persons have again and again, year after year, attended

these lectures, has more than repaid any pains that may have been taken

in their preparation. It was my happiness to take a prominent part in
the formation of the Natural History Society, and also in the re
organization of the Mechanics' Institute. Could others have been

Ieasily found, the lecturer's rostrum would never have been so frequentlyit,

occupied by me ; but, rather than see it empty, slipped into little
WWW.__.__aa.-_,. _.                 inn}, ,,,M

1848--1850.]      PRESENTATION TO PENGELLY.                            37

thinking that the act would elicit expressions of approval from an
Iassembly like the present.
     "This telescope is a really    maBguntifiIcepnrtize  instrument.         prize it
highly; it is to me most valuable.                         this paper  much more,
and attach a still higher value to it. It contains the expression of your
esteem . . . The list speaks, too, as with a voice from the tomb.
The death of Lord Newark, one of the subscribers, is not without its
significance; it reminds me that the most prosperous earthly career

must terminate, and that there are subjects, infinitely more sublime

than science, which should pre-eminently occupy the attention of

every human being.

I"Once more, allow me to thank you most sincerely for so kindly
enabling me to `consider the heavens.'  hope and believe that the

effect will be to impress me more deeply with the greatness of God, and
His infinite condescension and benevolence in visiting man, and being

mindful of him."
        i  , WILLIAM PENGELLY.  - [Cl-l. 1v.

38

                            CHAPTER IV.

               HIS FRIENDSHIPS WITH MEN OF SCIENCE.

                                                  1850 T0 MARCH, 1853.

THE year 1850 had been a busy one for Pengelly. He had

given more than two thousand lessons to private pupils, delivered
a large number of lectures, and taken part in many public meet
ings. He had also been elected a Fellow of the Geological
Society of London ; and in the success both of that and of the

Palmontographical Society he took great interest. In addition
to his other pursuits, he now devoted himself with increasing

zeal to geological researches.

     It has been naturally supposed that he must have been of

very strong constitution to get through his multifarious under
takings unaided; but this was not the opinion of the medical
men, whom he had occasion to consult at different times. He
suffered frequently from quinsy, and had always a delicate throat,
though he managed to speak frequently and with great clear
ness in public. Another difficulty under which he laboured
was his liability to serious attacks of fainting; yet such was his
power of will, and love of science, that he succeeded incarrying
through his varied and severe labours, without hindrance from

this or any other constitutional disadvantages. Like the late
 Sir Andrew Clark, he firmly believed that hard work was
injurious to no one.

      He had already formed a warm friendship with Charles W.
 Peach, a special bond of union being the interest they both took
in certain fossil fish, which Peach was the first to note the
existence of, in Cornwall. The importance of the discovery was
at once acknowledged, but it was supposed by Prof. McCoy
that the "fishes" were merely fossil sponges. Peach and Pen
gelly both held to their opinion in spite of this adverse criticism,
$50-$53; I     LETTERs FROM HUGH MILLER.                                                                       39

and had the satisfaction of proving their surmises to be correct

before the controversy closed.                                                                         _

    Dr. Henry Woodward, F.R.S., in a biographical notice of

Pengelly, in the Presidential address delivered at the Anniversary

Meeting of the Geological Society of London, on February 15,

1895, thus alludes to this subject :--

     "One of Pengelly's first recorded papers was ` On the Ichthyolites
of East Cornwall' (1849--5o).* These interesting remains were first
identified as FISHES by C. W. Peach in 1843 ; after eight years they
were referred to SPONGES, under the name of Steganodiozjlum Cornubz'rum,
in 1851, by McCoy`I'; then to the Cephalopoda by Ferd. Roemer (as
Aroluzoleut/lz': Dunensis) in 1855; and back again to the Fishes as
Stay/zaspz'r Cornubirusi by Huxley in 1868. Pengelly mentions in
one of his papers, that he had no fewer than 300 fragments of these
fossil fishes from the Devonian of Cornwall and Devon in his own
cabinet."§

     Early in the Spring of 1849 Pengelly had received the follow--
ing kind letter from Hugh Miller.

                                                            " Edinburgh, February 24, 1849.

              I" ought long ere now to have acknowledged receipt of your
kind note, and its interesting
strong and my engagements                                   accompaniments,     but         my  health is not
                                                            are engrossing,    and          so
                                                                                                I have very
frequently to throw myself on the good nature of my correspondents.

INeither from its mineral character nor organic contents could
identify the Old Red Sandstone of your part of the Island with that
of the North of Scotland. But the Old Red of Russia serves, it would
seem, to demonstrate their identity, by exhibiting in the same beds the
organisms of both. It is a curious circumstance that Great Britain
should be as it were tipped at ,both its ends by fossiliferous rock

systems.

     "The waves of the English Channel, and of the Pentland Firth,

Iare laying bare along their respective shoi'es fish and shells that were
contemporary.  send you in the accompanying box a little fish, that
was disinterred from out a bed of rock which overhangs at a height of
rather more than a hundred feet the western extremity of the bay of
Thurso, nearly the most distant point in Britain from the rocks in

which the Ichthyolitic remains you have so kindly sent me were found.

It is of an undescribed species of Asterolrfis, and exhibits the curved

form so common among the Old Red ichthyolites, and which is re
garded by Agassiz as indicative of violent death. The smaller kind of
fishes when suddenly deprived of life do certainly at first stiffen into

I*  Trans.    anRd0]M. a6g2. 01M. zSto.c.HCimorn,wsaelrl.,  ivol. vii. pp. 106--108   and   115--120.
    Ann.                                                    2. vol. viii. (1851),'p.  482.
1'  Huxley, Geo]. Maga, 1868, p. 248 ; H. Woodward and E. R. Lankester,
and p. 437,   and Quart/our". Geol. Soc., vol.                                                         p. 247,
    § Trans.   Der/on. Arron, vol. ii. (1868), p.
                                                            4x4x0i,v.a(n1d86G8e)o,].pM54a6g. ,  1869,  p. 77.

                                                            A -~_-,----~.._ .               _W
4O                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                             [Cl-I. IV.

such a curve, though they again straighten as they become flaccid.
People in the neighbourhood of fishing towns in the North of Scotland

regard the herrings which they purchase as fresh, in the most perfect

degree, when they find them still retaining the bend.
     "Should business or amusement         ever lead you into this neighbour
                                           opportunity of introducing you to
hood, I trust you will afi'ord me an
Iits various objects of geological interest.

    "My own collection you would, am sure, find worth examining.
It is not very large, but it is rich in fossils, in which many large
collections are poor; and exhibits pretty fully those portions of the
fauna of your own Devonian which Devonshire has not yet presented.

    "PS--The ichthyolites of the Caithness schists are usually of a

substance less destructible than the rock which incloses them, and in

consequence the stone frequently weathers from around them, leaving
them so little attached that upon a small blow dealt by the hammer,
they leap out entire. The fessil inclosed is in this state, and is retained

in its original bed by a little glue--H. M."

      Pengelly, as already mentioned, had communicated to the

Roy. Geol. Society of Cornwall (of which he was a Corre
sponding Member) an article " On the Ichthyolites of East
Cornwall" in the autum of 1849, and contributed a second paper
on the same subject in the following year. His letters on this

question are, unfortunately, nearly all missing, but some from his

friend Peach with regard to it have been preserved.

                     C. W Pear/z to Pengelly.

    "Peter/read, August -28, I850.--. . . I was greatly obliged and
Idelighted by your kind remembrance of me.                   got your letter on the
Ieve of my departure for Edinburgh.             laid it aside in the hope of
                                    pmreosreentwhI ichhaveI  not met with it again--
answering it on my return   ;  at
it is put safely away with  a  lot                           want. However, I well
Iremember that you had found lots                                  LfooooteonIsliat.ndI;
                                           of   fish remains  on
this always sullpeeleo', but, somehow      or   other, never
passed the island once at low water,        or                set
                                                nearly inside, and I could see
the colour of the           agreed with the fossil beds. . . . Mr. Hugh
                     rocks                                   of the British Association
Miller and I had a          chat after the meeting
                     snug    a splendid meeting),            and I showed him a lot
(which, by-the-bye,   was

Iof my best fossil fish specimens from Cornwall, and he could only see one

bit like the Old-red fishes, and it was the piece named Arterolepz's.

This, he said, ` if he had found it in the Old-red of Scotland he should
Icall an Arlee-olepis,' and so am quite satisfied it is. Professor Sedgwick
Isaw the fish fossils and they are all new to him ,- it is odd no one knows
i/zem, they are puzzlers, so work away, dear friend.               am no more

    least for    the present) personally     in Cornwall--my       heart is there,
               feel great interest in all  connected with her,      especially the
    I shall
I(at

and
geology. But, dear Pengelly, the shangest of all is to be told ; have
UmN.?I.I».k`1..1V»1.TéZ, -v

                             moon .2258  =E<>>zaou  egagm .R .9,
1850--1853-1          CORNISH ICHTHYOLITES.                                               41

found veritable Graptolites in our rocks--there for you, what do you
Ithink of that?
                     have always hoarded these fossils with miserly care.
I Ihave asked many what they were, and, until got hold of that kind
Palaeontologist, Professor E. Forbes,     no one either could or would tell

me, he pronounced them Graptolites.        I got them very near the Gribbon,
and have                                      lot of                                      Of
                                                                                            I
Icourse I                                      come
              asked  a friend there to get a          fossils from the spot.              am
              want   all have told you to     report
                                                      out    at  tphaepemr,eeftoinr g.I*
shall look with       some anxiety for the            of   your
Imore anxious than ever, and Cornish news is so dear to me now am
Iso far removed from the dear old spot, as well as because quite expect
some of the Lions of Geology will be visiting Cornwall, and we then
shall get them regularly christened. . . ."

                                From Pengelly to C. W. Peat/i.

    T" arouay, May 12, 1851.----. . . My dear friend,---On Good Friday
Ilast had the good fortune to meet Mr. Landsborough, the Scotch

Algologist, etc. In the course of conversation he told me that he had
just engaged to write a work on British Zoophytes, and that he was

Ivery anxious to find some one who would kindly furnish him with

information on Cornish Zoophytology, when took the liberty of

Ispeaking of your labours in that department, and ventured to add that
    believed you would readily render him any assistance in your power.

At Mr. Landsborough's request I engaged to write you on the subject,

and allowed him to use my name if he found it desirable to write you.

IMr. L. is a dear old fellow, as simple~minded as a child, and almost

as enthusiastic as C. W. Peach, Esq.! . . . shall be glad to hear from

you, when you have a moment which you have no better use for."

                      C. W. Peat/z to Pengelly.

    I"Peter/lead, May 14, 185 1.--. . . have been very closely attend

ing to the Zoophytes on this coast, and have doubled the list of those
I Iknown in the County of Aberdeen, in fact have got several new to

Scotland and two new to the Brz'tislz list, and believe have an
IActinia now living which will prove also an addition to the British list.
   am almost getting a little conteited about these things, from having

very many times brought forward new things before these great men

Iand authors, who would not listen to their being so at the time, but

have been compelled to submit after all--to wit, exhibited a most
beautiful     collection of Echini
described     one as differing from  at   SthoeuthoathmeprtoBnritis(hB;rit.I  Assoc.), and
                                     all                                      was opposed
by Forbes and Agassiz, still they said there was room for suspicion. At
Ithe meeting at Edinboro' last year, Forbes laid it before the British

Association and confessed was right, and it proves to be the Et/zinus
Melo   of the Mediterranean,         is the largest of the British species.
        this not as boasting,  and   just to justify my `leetle conceit'
I say                           but

II(Sam Slick). . . .   believe that, although my friend Miller does not
     "Like yourself,  do; and they must do fis/z, and shall be fis/z. He
think our fish fish,

                     * Royal Gwlogital Society of Cornwall.
42                             WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                           [CH- IV.

judges from a few specimens. When you go to Looe again, be sure and
examine the slates on the beach, from the harbour all along eastward,

Iand trace them into the cliff beyond the Chough Rock,                     Mellendreth,

etc. ; you will get some very curious and strange forms.                   I should like

to be with you; you will find, fancy, amongst the fish remains some
will prove to belong to the Sepidre. Still, there are plenty of fishes."

     Writing of Pengelly's work in connection with the Cornish
fossil fish, and the Geology of the West of England, Mr. Howard

Fox, F.G.S., President of the Royal Cornish Geological Society,

remarks in the Annual Address, November, 1894--

     "William Pengelly, F.R.S., was connected with this Society as
Corresponding or Honorary Member since 1856. His career is a
striking example of the brilliant success that may attend the study of
TGeology in the intervals of a busy professional life.

     "The seventh volume of your ransaetion: contains nine of his
papers; three `On the Ichthyolites and Geology of South-east Corn
wall,' commencing at Talland Sands Bay (the point at which Mr.
Peach's labours eastward terminated), and comprising the coast of
Cornwall, thence to the Tamar. . . . His attention in later years was
naturally turned to the geology of his adopted, rather than to that of
his native county; but further papers on Cornwall appeared in other
publications. . . . He has been described by Prof. Boyd Dawkins*
as `one of the last survivors of the heroes who laid the foundation of

Geological Science,' who `died full of years, and with his services

honourably recognized by his private friends and by the scientific
world. He has left                                example of what
                               behind an          and perseverance.'  one  man  can        do  in
advancing knowledge            by energy                              "

    Pengelly was not in 18 5t acquainted with Sir Roderick
Murchison, and in a letter to a friend, he mentions his disap
pointment at failing to meet and have a geological chat with that

eminent scientist.

   " Torquay,]anuarj/ 5, 1851.-- . . . On Friday last I was bidden

by Lady Shelley to meet Sir Roderick Murchison, and was requested
                                                                                Accord
tinoglyp,repIarechamrgyesdelf   to discourse very learnedly  on `Beekites.'      jargon,
                               myself to the very muzzle      with scientific

respecting decomposing limestone nodules, conglomerates, and water

holding chalcedony in solution. Mr. Vivian, who was also bidden,

Went fully primed about Kent's Cavern; he could scarcely open his
mouth but stalagmite, stalactites, flint knives, and elephants' teeth,

came tumbling out. . . .
"I Iwhomfound Lord Glenelg and                    Mr. Hippisley,
                               cIouepxlpeectoefd  gentlemen and   anladdieosne,whoormtwIo    others
know.     knew, and a                                                                      did not
          One of these
                                                  was the great Sir Roderick; but alas!

                               * Nature, April 5, 1894.
1850--1853.]      LIFE or DR. ARNOLD.                                                                                              43

alas !_ for human expectations!                Sir John Shelley soon sent all my
glowmg anticipations flying.                 He had received a letter from Sir
Roderick, by which he had learned that Lady Murchison could not
leave her room, and consequently was still in London, and not in
Torquay. . . ."

     He had afterwards the pleasure of entertaining Sir Roderick
at his own house, and of taking him to see many geological
points of interest in the neighbourhood of Torquay. He thence
forward enjoyed the intimate friendship of the great geologist.

     During February, 18 5 r,Mrs. Pengelly's health, always delicate,
completely broke down, and her death took place towards the
end of that month. After this bereavement he wrote at once to
his parents asking them to come and live with him. This

they were able to do for a considerable period, much to his
comfort. His son Alfred, and his daughter Mary Ann, sur
vived their mother for some years, but both died before their

father.

     Of the period immediately succeeding his wife's death little
of his correspondence remains, but some months later he writes
to an intimate friend :--

   "I owe you     vIerwy oumldanyapotlhoagnizkes  for having induced me to read
                                                  to you for not having acted on
Arnold's `Life.'
I Iyour advice earlier, but that am rather glad that have seen Fox
How, to which he was so very sincerely attached, and the many other

Ilovely nooks which he must so thoroughly have enjoyed. So far as
have read, I like him best as a husband and father, then as a friend,
Inext as a teacher, next as a scholar, then as a reformer; and last, and
therefore least, as a divine.                find myself differing from him rather
                                                                                                                                   a Christian. He
fncraeervqreuierednsteleyhmissasCtoha`rhiatshvteieaonlopitgayiraandin,etdobuitte.vveerWyryo,cuhvleadrryaIctsecerolduolImd    as                                 ,
                                                                                                                           have      mentioned, and
                                                                                                                           be a    sort of miniature

Arnold!"

     Some idea of Pengelly's kindness of heart will be seen in the
following extract from his letters to the same correspondent.

W--*" gave me a very bad account of his wife's health. He has
Inot been able to settle with me.              could     not press                                                         him,    poor fellow. . . .
                                             night,   I   found a                                                          little
During my perambulations last                                                                                                      bcooynfiencttiohneerh.andsI
of the police for having stolen              nuts lrom an itinerant

paid the      cIomtopolkainpaonstsesosnioen  shilling for the   nuts, and had                                                      the boy set at
liberty.                                     of his cap, and   the nuts which                                                      he had stolen
in telling him to call at my house for his cap this morning. He has
it,
                An improvident friend, to whom he had been extremely kind.
            "`
44                                                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                             [Cm IV.

been,                 and I   havIefignidventhahtimhisa    little lecture, and then accompanied                           him
to his                                                     mother is dead ; his father is a sailor,                       and
                      home.

Iis married again. Both his                                present parents are in        .Loof. nn.deoIgnlheac; tv.heefiIinsisqwhueiittdhe

relatives of his stepmother.                               It seems a sad case
feel that must occasionally                                look after the child.

Arnold's `Life,' and have been delighted with                                                          hope to begin
                                                           .

                                                              I`
                                                                                .
                                                                                        .
                                                                                                   it.
                                                                                     I

                                                                                                 I
Pale"y's           I          Natural Theology' next week. .                     * and   have                   no doubt  you
                          ` am glad you are reading the Vestiges,'
are pleased with the work. . . think you are aware that reada
Geology with Miss Bird. When at their house last evening, Mrs. Bird
brought little girl into the room, and told me that she was anxious to
be present during the lesson. Mrs. Bird, at the same time, told me
that the child                                 daughter of Kingsley, the author of Alton Locke,'
                              is                                         ."
                                  a                                                         is

                                 aI                                                                          `
and other similar works, and that Kingsley had married her sister. Of

course, was greatly interested. Rose Kingsley one of the most
                      I

intelligent children ever met with. . .

     Being now widower, with both his children at school,
Pengelly was able to give more of his scanty leisure to geological
excursions, and he jotted down in his note-books some of the
incidents which amused him most, from which the following

extracts are taken.

                   "Once, soon after midday, found myself at lone wayside inn,
                                                           I

                                                                            a
                                                                                                    a
and encountered forlorn-looking hostess, with a black eye, of whom
                   as""kedAC--ancr'tus'tavoef  it, a
I                                              bread and   cheese,  and          glass of beer.'
                                                    zur.'
              `````"
                   "  Why not?'
                      Cause me and my old man 'th valled out.'
                   "  I'm sorry for that. But what has
                                                                                 it  to  do            with     my  having

"`Irefreshment?               '
             tell 'ee, we've valled out, and he'th carried away the kay; so
you can't 'ave it. You may 'ave some of they there_'orts--whortle
                                 like                               nort else.'
berrie"s---d~eifcliynoeud         the                  but there's  proceeded
a                                                     "orts,' and                on my journey,                 which after

    I
                                            ;
                   walk of twenty miles brought me to an inn where the host and

hostess lived amicably. Finding that a bed was obtainable, ordered
                                                                                                                I
tea with ham and eggs.
     "Slipping off my collecting basket, but leaving my hammer in the                                                             a
belt in which was carried, took a seat on the `kitchen settle,' and
                              it

                                        a
                                           a

                                              I
thereby joined three men, apparently masons, who had just `left work,'
who were enjoying glass and pipe before going home. They all eyed
me intently; but for time no one spoke. At length one of them took
the pipe from his lips, and emitted the accumulated smoke in that long
thin thread which seems to betoken a desire to make the most of

good thing. When his lips were at liberty, he said--

                                 ` " Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation."
1850--1853.]                   A RUSTIC AUDIENCE.                                            45

" `Ax your pardon, sir, for making so bould; but what trade be
you ?'
  "

  I"
      ` I can't   say have a trade.'         I  took  the  liberty.'
                 of your hammer, sir,
      `Cause
I I" `Oh, my hammer!
  If"The       trio exclaimed    can only say break stones on the road.'
     ` We      won't believe
"`"                             in chorus--
                               that.'
"I
          you'll open my basket, you'll see the stones I've broken.'
         had spent the day before in a richly fossiliferous Greensand
district, and had collected many very fine specimens; whilst the rocks
of the locality in which the inn stood were, so far as was known, utterly
destitute of fossils.
     "Taking me at my word, one of the masons opened the basket,
and took out the first stone that came to hand. It proved to be a
piece of Greensand with an unmistakable shell firmly embedded in
                 if
                         I

                                                                                                       it,
yet standing out in bold relief. Instantly their pipes were snatched
from their lips, their mouths fell open, and they all stared at the

specimen as they would at once penetrate the mystery connected
with it. Never had seen looks in which ignorance, wonder, and
admiration were so obviously blended and so strongly pronounced. At
leng"th`Wonhey,ohfotwhemdidetxhcelakikmy'e--d--a provincialism for that--`shell get there?'
  "Obviously fossils, with their wondrous teachings, were new to
them. My attempt to reply to their question eventuated in sort of
conversational lecture; and so far as my experience goes, no audience       aI
was ever more attentive or more interested. The discourse was at                Ia
length cut short by the landlady's announcement, `Your tea's ready,                    I
sir.' And she intimated that was to adjourn to the adjoining parlour,
which, however, was within earshot of my audience. As took myII
place at the table, the following flattering remark reached me--
"`Lord! what scholard he ez!               a
                      a it                      I     reckon he writ'th booteful

hand, ef we cud zee it.'  Ia

"Before my meal was over, they had left the house; and have
never seen them since. This, however, seems to have been no fault of
                the following incident shows.
their"s--Oans  finishing my breakfast the next        morning,        I' Itold the hostess

wish"ed   to   pay my   `reckoning,' to which         she replied--         plaize.  May he
               maister  wishes to spaik to 'ee        'bout that, sir,
         My
come in?'iIf ; `
  " `Oh, certainly; shall be very glad to see him
"But what               all meant           had no conception. The landlady at

once withdrew; and the master of the house very shortly entered,
apparently very ill at case. He shuffled into the room, constantly
shifted himself from leg to leg without advancing, giving himself the
appearance of ship rolling in heavy sea which struck her on the
beam then he hit his nails, and finally scratched his head. In short,
his appearance when translated into words, was to the effect, `Dang
me know how to begin.' To help him, told him was fine
                                                           I                it

                                                                                          a

morning. He seemed grateful for the information, assented to its
truth, and then said--
46                               WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                  [Ca Iv.

    "    ``WI haemreabboeutgwtoainwa?lk'  to' M
    "
                                                is a
    I I"                                            P ' it.

    "                                                       a oY
         ` Be in  a hurry        for a day                            aor two ora week?'    wish to get there
                  scarcely       say that                                  a`am in ahurry; but
         ` I can

to-night'

    "`The men was very much pleased with what you told 'em last

evening.'
    "      ` I thought they were
    "                                     interested.'                       I hope no offence, sir; but ef
           `Oh, ees--uncommon,
                                            I 'sure 'ee.
you'd stop 'ere for a foo days, or a week, and talk to the men in the
evenin's, you shud be welcome to meat, drink,
free gratis. I'm sure lots 0' men wud come an'                                 washing,       and   I  lodging
                                                                               hear 'ee,      and       should

zell an uncommon zight 0' beer.'

    " `Your offer is extremely handsome, and most tempting; and I
                                                    But my plan was to reach M
am much obliged to you for

to-night, and don't like to make any alteration. Thank you very
        I
"Imuc"h;      I
                 I
           but      must get on.'                to pay my                     reckoning,'  and to proceed.
           was    accordingly allowed

           was one morning overtaken by an active, hale old fellow, who

had been a soldier and seen great deal of service, but was at the time

a river bargeman.
        "In our journey we passed directing post, with                                              in good
                                                                                              arms

condition, and containing full information.
        "  Do'ee know what that
        "` ` ` ` `I                              said my companion.
        "              't
                           !a
           A directing post, of course.'
           call passon.'
        "  A parson Why?
        "
           Cause 'ee tell'th the way, but doth'n't go.'

        "Before we separated, we passed second post, which was very

dilap"idaItfedt,heapnodsthawde   lost     its arm.  were                       parson,' said  I,  `what's this
        ` ` ` i" `                saw     just now

one                           a
      "    Oh, he's bishop.'

      "    Explain.'             tell'th  nor go'th.' "
     "     He neither

     This happened many years before the establishment of the
Bishopric of Truro, and the increased activity of the clergy in
the West of England.

     Pengelly was always extremely interested in the religious
history of Cornwall. The fine old church which occupies the
site of the ancient Cathedral of St. Germans appealed to his

antiquarian taste, and he experienced great pleasure in visiting
the Cathedral now being erected at Truro. But beyond all he

recognized, as a hopeful sign for the future, the quickened zeal
and generous devoted lives of many of the clergy, who have
during recent years shed the light of religion alike upon the
busy, crowded town, and the lonely country parish.
[850--1853.]        RAILWAY TRAVELLING IN 1852.                                                          47

     The journey from the north of England to Torquay, at

present so rapidly accomplished, was in former days a tedious

affair, as will be seen from the following letter which Pengelly
wrote at the end of 1852. He had started early in the morning,
hoping to reach Torquay the same night, and says--

". . . . By clever dawdling at some pigmy stations, we managed
to be fully half an hour late at Bristol, and on our arrival found that

the three o'clock train to Plymouth had just left. Having about an hour
         half to    spare, I rambled                            RIedrectluifrfnecdhurtcoh,
and a      various                     towards                                                 and then
studied             print-shops. In   due time                                              the station,

and had the pleasure of waiting some twenty minutes for the train which
should have left at 5.6 pm. At length we were off for Exeter; all
hope of my being able to reach Torquay before to-morrow having
vanished. Things went on tolerably until ascending the inclined

plane preparatory to entering the tunnel between Wellington and
Tiverton Road. Our train was of enormous length, the rails very

wet and slippery, and the engine by no means potent, so that at last
we came to a stand, when near the steepest part of the plane, and

then we began a retrograde movement, which was checked by the
breaks. The gradient on this plane is I in 100 only, whilst that of
the Bromsgrove Lickey is r in 37. At length it was decided to
divide the train into two parts, and to take the first up to a siding,
Iof the down line, about two miles on, and then to send the engine
back.er the second part.  being in the remaining or second part,
Igot out to walk a bit, as did one or two other persons. After waiting

a considerable time heard an engine coming up, and supposed it
                                                                that possibly it
was ours returning, but remembering                             to walk on the    umpiglhint e,beso aIn   up
                                                                                                         got
Itrain, thought it no longer prudent
Iinto my carriage again.  had scarcely shut the door when an up

goods train swept over the ground with a velocity that almost made
one shudder. . . . We had now been waiting more than an hour, and

began to feel desirous of the return of our engine as a down train
would be due in a quarter of an hour.

    "At length the engine came to us, but though it tugged and
snorted, and snorted and tugged, it could not move us, and a feeling
of alarm, respecting the expected down train became more or less
general. By this time, however, the engine of a goods train had been
obtained, and, this applied to our rear, whilst our engine did its best
in front, we were set in motion and in no long time were brought up
to the portion of our train which had been taken on. . . . There
certainly ought to be an engine kept at the bottom of the incline. At

tlehnegtinh,clinheowteoveTr,ivewretongoRt ofaadirlyatonmotrhee   down line, and then ran    down
                                                                than express speed, in the  hope,
I suppose, of recovering the almost two hours that had been lost. We
had the happiness of reaching Exeter between 10 and 11 instead of

at 8.45. . . ."

There he had to spend the night, and go on to Torquay by
48                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.           _ [0a. IV. 1850-1853.

the earliest train the next morning to fulfil his numerous engage

ments.

     Pengelly's circle of friends was now becoming very large.
In March, 185 3, he writes, in answer to a correspondent--

     "I feel much obliged by your acquaintance wishing to make my

acquaintance, and hope they may some day have that `dirtingziir/ud
plearure,' but as H. B. Stowe said in reply to the good Scotch ladies,
     had invited her                    ` I was   never anything to look at; '
who                     to visit them,             results have by no means
and  I will add that  `study and its    physical
improved me.' "

     He then goes on to write of his great grief at the loss of his

friend, Mrs. Edward Vivian, whose unfailing kindness through
a number of years he warmly appreciated.

     I" have deferred the worst part of my letter to the last. Torquay
has sustained a loss to-day not              repaired; poor dear  Mrs. Vivian
is taken to her eternal home.    eIaswilays   there this morning  and learned

from her almost distracted husband that she had had a wretched

night, that at that   moment she was unconscious, but   that she seemed
to rally a little at                                    express my deep
                      rare intervals. I endeavoured to
Iand sincere sympathy with him. Poor, poor fellow, what a terrible
blow.   learned just before returning home, that she departed about
six o'clock. The poor of Torquay have lost a warm-hearted yet, most
judicious friend, and Torquay one of its greatest ornaments. May

her bereaved husband he supported under his terrible loss. May it
be sanctified to him and bring him more closely to God, who only
afllicts to draw His loved ones to His own bosom. . . ."
                      (49)

                             CHAPTER V.

                               HIS SECOND MARRIAGE.

                                         18§3 TO END or 1856.

THE statement which has more than once appeared in print to
the effect that Pengelly came "of a Quaker stock," is altogether
erroneous. Neither on his father's side, nor On that of his
mother, had he any connection with the Society of Friends.
The account that has been given of the struggles of his early
life would be a sufficient contradiction of the statement to any
one acquainted with the constitution of the Society.

      Such a connection would indeed have been of inestimable
benefit to Pengelly, for beyond any other body of people bound
together by special tenets, the Society of Friends has been
careful that every birthright Member should have a sound and
adequate education, as witnessed by the foundation and endow
ment of the well-known school at Ackworth (where the late'
John Bright and other leading men among the Friends received
their education), and other establishments of a like nature. It
Pengelly had been eligible for such instruction as he certainly
would have enjoyed, had his parents belonged to the Society
in question, how much of the trouble and hardships he under
went in his determination to acquire knowledge, might have
been spared to him !

    It was not until early middle life that he became acquainted
with some of the Members of the Quaker body. Among those

with whom he was intimate may be mentioned Joseph Sturge,
Robert Were Fox, F.R.S., and his daughters Anna Maria and
Caroline Fox, H. Bowman Brady, F.R.S., and the Hanbury,
Lister, and Burlingham families. Deeply impressed with the
devotion, spirituality, and unworldliness of the Friends, and the
warm solicitude which they displayed in promoting the welfare

                                                                                                E
50  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [Cl-I. V.

of their fellow-creatures, he soon joined their Body. Later
on he became attached to Lydia, the youngest daughter of
William Spriggs, a Member of the Society, descended on his
mother's side (who belonged to the Savory family) through
several generations of Quaker ancestry. One of the family,
Hester Savory (who died shortly after becoming the wife of
Charles Dudley), was greatly admired by Charles Lamb. On
her death, he wrote the well-known lines beginning--

                           " When maidens such as Hester die,
                              Their place ye may not well supply,
                              Though ye among a thousand try,
                                      With vain endeavour."

     Mr. Spriggs and his wife always gave hearty support to those
benevolent and charitable undertakings, which the Members of
the Society of Friends, have supported so largely and honour
ably. Mrs. Spriggs, when a girl living with her widowed
mother, had enjoyed the friendship of the great philanthropist
Thomas Clarkson, who was often an honoured guest at their
house. In later life, she had the privilege of going with Elizabeth
Fry to visit the prisoners in gaol, a sight so touching that it
once made Sydney Smith weep bitterly, and say, "to see her
in the midst of the wretched prisoners, to see them all calling

earnestly upon God, soothed by her look, animated by her voice,
clinging to the hem of her garment, worshipping her as the only
being who had ever loved them, or taught them, or noticed
them, or spoken to them of God, was a sight which broke down
the pageants of the world."

     Pengelly's second marriage took place on june 28, I853, and
he thus gained a most devoted wife, but of the extreme happiness
of this union it is out of place to speak here. Mrs. Pengelly
entered with ready zest into all her husband's scientific pursuits.
Though in politics she remained, like her parents, a Conserva
tive, while he was always a consistent Liberal, this difference of
opinion, never occasioned the slightest cloud in the brightness
of their exceptionally happy and united married life. Her
artistic powers were of the greatest assistance to him, as she
was indefatigable in drawing and colouring diagrams for his
lectures. This she continued to do till the end of his lecturing

 career.

      The following letter, to his wife's sister Hester, was written
by Pengelly on his wedding journey :--
1853--1856.]  HONEYMOON OF SECOND MARRIAGE.                                                SI

"Bellws-y-Coea',    fuly 91/2. ----You must  take great care not to thank
for this letter,                             just to kill time. The rain
                    as am really writing
Ime
Ihoafisiceb,eewnhemreostI            did  just manage
              pitiless  all day.     two  papers; but                      to get  to the  post
              found a    letter and                                         since          have
Ibeen a close prisoner.                                                            that I
                         have read Shakespeare's ` Lear,' and I have also
done my best to criticize Lydia's sketch, now in progress, of the splendid
hill in front of our window.       The newspapers
                                  consulted, and, as                       have    been duly gone
through,   and the   guide-books                                           a last
my pen              have nothing                                                   resource, I take
          to say I                to write about. Had the day suited, we
were to have seen the falls of the Conway. . . . fuly rotfi.--We have
ascended the beautiful hill over the way this afternoon. But what would
you have given to have had a glimpse of the glorious mountain range
westward--including Snowdon~all in one view? In the course of our
ramble we suddenly came upon a mountain lake of which we had not
heard. Oh, how tranquilly it lay, reposing on the heart of the moun
tain! How it seemed to invite one not to return to the bustling
money-getting world. . . . "

     We get some glimpses of Pengelly's life, after their return
from this journey, in his wife's letters to her mother.

                    Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Mother.

"Naz/ember, r85 3.--. . . Joseph Wolff's lecture here created quite
a sensation; it was very crowded, some were delighted, others thought
it only rigmarole. . . . We have just had a very pleasant visit from
Bishop Carr; he came to see the fossils again, and was extremely
interested in them, particularly the `Beekites.' He stayed to take tea

with us, and told us such interesting facts about the Syrian Christians,
the Malabar jews, the Indian population in the Deccan, Ceylon, etc.

He says he was at Torquay forty years ago, when there were only a
very few houses here. William has been several geological rambles
              a*nwdhleiknesshheimdievde, rypomourcthh.ing.TheHbeisshaoipd
with him,                                                                  was with the Princess
Esterhazy                                                                  her throat was in such

a dreadful state that she could take nothing but Devonshire cream for

the last two or three weeks. In fact, it was nothing but that which
had kept her alive. . . . The bishop mentioned several amusing things
abOut his correspondence in India; occasionally he received letters
addressed `T. Bombay, Esq.' His account of the suffering caused by
the terrible floods in his diocese was most sad. . . ."

                               Pengelly to a Botanieal Friend.

    I" Torquay, ZVmIember 21, 18 5 3.-- . . . Please to inform your brother

Thomas that made careful inquiries after the gentleman whose acquaint
ance he desires, namely, .41. Asplem'um laneeolatum; but he has left this
district about three years ago, and has wisely gone into Cornwall. So
says my friend, C. Parker,1' a man who calls on, and therefore knows

     * Lady Sarah Villiers, daughter of the Earl of jersey, who died at Torquay.
        An excellent local botanist.
MW,
                                                      ~-___-------'-------w--~v~ *~~--- fl

52                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                                [CI--I. V.

the exact whereabouts of, every member of the botanical family living
in this district. . . ."

     Mrs. Pengelly spent the Christmas of 1853 with her family,
but her husband was not able to leave Torquay on account of
the lectures he had undertaken to deliver. He writes to his

wife during her absence.

   I" Frz'rz'ay.-- . . . Now

Feeling the gardening fit
                                   I'll just tell                                           you what I've  done this afternoon.
                                                                                             me, began
                                   strong upon                                                             operations. First I

removed the stunted fir-tree, and the first larch that came to hand, next

a laururtinus, ap/zyllorea (if that is not the correct orthography it ought
to be).    The destructive tendency is in the                                               ascendant just       now,   which,
were it  spring, the trees would soon find to                                               their decided        loss.
                                                                                                                        I. . .

have    gone roughly   Ithtroooukghupm` yHylepcattuiar,e'                                   for Monday, and called on the
Birds.     Last night                                                                       and got more than half through

the first volume before going to bed. Really, it is first-rate. Miss

Bird told me that Kingsley and his family are coming here for the
winter, and have taken Livermead House for three months.

    "Salurday.--I finished the first volume of `Hypatia,' and got so                                                                                                       '

I Iabsorbed in the second that the midnight hour found me still reading.
...    There  Iwas a splendid sea         yesterday, and                                      think never saw so
      a sky;                                How can any                                     one leave the ocean, a
fine             wished you here.

fine climate, and   a  lovI ealym  district, for a land of fogs, and a place where
the ocean is not!  !l              promising myself a long letter to-morrow, and
hope it will bring a good report of my better nine-tenthr--it would be
I I Ian insult to call you better half, any woman

  think in one of my cross moments said
was. In order to                                                                            cI owmoeusldupnotto   that standard.
                                                                                                                 tell you how
you how I am not.
                       pIleaasme    you,   and                                              aalunsnyowmetolel.ankes eIapaummseylenswostortsdha,itnislgefi!tedmeIbytaemlal
week's experience                   not   at all
                       that a
                                   wife   is by
Inet at all unlikely to give you a hearty welcome again, though I am not

sorry that you have gone, nor do wish you to curtail your visit in
any way. . . . H

                                   Pengeléy Wt0 111': zfe.

    T I" arguay, December 16, 18 53.-- . . . have been promising myself
the pleasure of commencing another                                                          letter to you  ctohmise,evIengilnagdl;y  and
now the day's work being over, and                                                          the evening                               set
Iabout it. Mr. H
                       inquired kindly after you today, and told me
he thought me most ,kind `to allow my wife to leave me so soon.'
cautioned him not to use such words as `ALLow,' with reference to
Iwives, in the hearing of any lady if he ever hoped to get married.
                                                                                                                                     He
laughed, but was quite ready to do battle for his proposition, so                                                                    left
Ithe besotted creature in the belief that he will have power to ` allow' or
disallow after being `noosed.'            met Toogood recently, who played
off on me the following--` Of what rascality was Power guilty when he
produced the Greek slave? D'ye give it upi" `Yes.' `Why, he
chiselled a young woman out of her clothes.' . . . Miss H. Bird told
                                                                          NE; "v.4

1853--1856.]  CHARLES KINGSLEY AT TORQUAY.                        53

me she had just received a letter from Lady Verney, who is at Malta
with her family. They were all to have gone to Constantinople; but
Sir Harry was informed by the admiral at Malta that it was no place
Ifor ladies now, so he

ticulars respecting the
              went alone. Lady Verney has               sent some par
              geology of Malta, all of which
                                                        she says I can
expound. The young Boyles asked me this evening if had seen the
Haytian prince, so that it seems we are beginning to wake up to the

honour thrust upon us."

    It was during the early part of 1854 that Charles Kingsley

and his wife passed some time at Livermead, near Torquay, for
the benefit of Mrs. Kingsley's health. Pengelly had long admired

Kingsley's works, and a sincere friendship sprang up between

the two men, in whose characters there was much in common.
Both were enthusiastic students of nature, and both were endued
with noble frankness and breadth of view on the subjects
of the day, especially a ready and unflagging interest in the
labour question, then hardly so prominently before the public

as at present. Pengelly's sympathies with, and desire to pro
mote, the true happiness of working men, remained active and
keen throughout his long life, and in times of trouble and
distress no one appealed to him in vain for counsel or assistance ;
he has been aptly described as "an ardent and thoughtful
Liberal, a friend of the people, and a lover of truth, in the widest
sense of the terms."

                                     1111's. Pengelly to her Mot/161'.

     " Mart/z, 1854.-- . . . Lady Louisa Percy and two other ladies came

Ito see the moon through the telescope last night ; but William was gone

out, so had to entertain them till his return--not a difficult task, as

Ithey were extremely bright. The moon would not be viewed, however,

so they are coming again, when hope they may be more fortunate
Sir Paul Hunter, who also came with the hope of seeing the moon, is

loud in his praises of John Bright's last speech (on the Crimean War),
which he says is the best on the subject. Sir Paul Hunter is rather
Russian in his tendencies, as his wife's mother is a Russian lady--Mrs.

Bosanquet, whose husband has written a pamphlet on the war, called
the ` Cross and the Crescent.' Sir Paul seems to think the English are
by no means alive to the nature of a war with Russia. . . ."

    In the autumn Mrs. Pengelly writes to her mother--

    "How dreadful are the accounts of the dynamite explosion at

Newcastle ; and yet that seems to fade by comparison with the accounts
of
    this terrible engagement (in  the Crimea).
     "One of William's pupils,    Lieutenant Montague,  grandson  of his
friend the late Duchess of Manchester, was killed on the spot. His
S4                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                      [CH. V.

poor sister living here, who is an orphan, feels it exceedingly, and
refuses to see any one but Mrs. Bird.

     "Major Lysons,* a fine man, also a pupil of William's, and who
attended all his lectures last winter, saved Sir G. Brown's life by
shooting a Cossack who was taking aim at him. Another of his pupils,
who is invalided home, Captain Fearon, came to see us a day or two
ago, and looks very ill; he was aide-de-camp on Omar Pasha's staff.
We hear much of the war just now, as many of William's old pupils and
friends are engaged in it."

    Whilst staying with friends in London during the spring of

1855, he was for the first time present at an evening meeting of

the Geological Society, and thus describes it in a letter to his wife

written from Upton, the charming residence of Mr. I. J. Lister,

the distinguished discoverer of the principle upon which the

Achromatic Microscope is constructed, and whose scientific
tastes were shared by his son Sir josephj' Lister.

    I". . . You will see that I am now in Essex, a thing    could never
Isay before.  wish you could see this place; such glorious cedars of
Lebanon, and such a wistaria! I must now give you my promised
Iaccount of my visit to the Geol. Soc. There were probably about forty

persons present, which believe is considered a good attendance. We

were rather late, and found on our arrival that a paper was being read
descriptive of Manna                        in Owhyee.     At its close,
                       Loa, the    volcano  once lived
Austen,1 a well-known  geologist,  and who              at East ngell,
read a paper on the ` Probability of Coal existing at workable depths
near London.' . . . A discussion followed the paper, in which the

author was by no means spared, as the various speakers expressed
themselves freely. This part was extremely interesting, not only on
account of the remarks made, but also because it gave me an oppor
tunity of seeing and hearing many eminent men, as Lyell, Murchison,
Col. Portlock, Sharpe, Smyth, Prestwich, Morris, etc. Daubeny and

Percy were also there, but did not speak. Lyell is a merry-looking
fellow, very bald, and, according to C. Hanbury, junior, like me in a

`general way.' C. Hanbury introduced me to a few persons. I

seemed to get on best with Morris, the author of the great Catalogue.
After the meeting we got into a tea-room, and did ample justice to the
good things there spread. In leaving the Geological, the author of the
paper on Manna Loa came out with me, and appeared very sociable;
he told me he was seven days in reaching the top of the mountain,
which is about two and a half miles, and that the cold was so intense
that he could not sleep a wink. . . ."

    A letter written by Pengelly this summer shows the interest

he continued to take in his native county.

    " Torquay. july 24, 1855--... (You are aware that we visited

    " Now General Sir Daniel Lysons, Constable of the Tower.
              T Now Lord.          I Mr. R. Godwin-Austen.
1853--1856.]    A jOURNEY IN CORNWALL.                                               55

Looe, and probably dear Lydia has given all the information of a serious

character, but possibly there are a few facts that have not been men

tioned and that may interest you. We journeyed from Plymouth to
Looe by a Cornish van, having a boy driver, and a middle-aged man,
as a sort of guard, and who
                                is at the same time proprietor, and                  father
of the driver. I happened       to have in my pocket an interesting                   book

entitled `Cornwall, its Mines and Miners,' which commences with a
description of a van by which the author performed the same journey,

viz. from Plymouth to Looe, and he dwells minutely on the great
number of things stowed
                           fienl,lowon-t,raavnedlleursnderI    the van by the  boy driver.
In order to amuse our                                          read my book    aloud, and

with one accord it was agreed that Bob (our driver) must have sat for
the portrait (quite an error), but Bob himself thought there was nothing
of the kind in                                                                       of the
text there and  the book,  but   gIavweasmoenlcyrepdriet tefonrdinthge  manufacture  being
                then, and  that                                         to read. On

allowed to take the book he saw his mistake, and thenceforth on being
drawn into conversation would suddenly stop short with, ` 1 must take
I Icare
Ihave
what          sIayw,aeslseauitthowrillofgetht epubtooinktoina  book, s'pose,' for he would
it that                                                        question. Whilst at Looe,

got a donkey for Lydia, who rode some miles in the country by the

side of the river, I acting as guide. Being a hot day I stopped at the
IWell to drink, my wife scolded me for not having taken her from

the saddle in order that she might drink first ,- of course was intensely
sorry to be so wanting in politeness, especially as it turned out to be
the Well of St. _Keyne.* Another day my father took us by boat to

Polperro, we called on Jonathan Couch, the Naturalist, and had a most
interesting hour spent in geological chat with him. Lydia was delighted

with Polperro, but had not time for more than one sketch. She
bargains for a week there on some future occasion. We fully reckoned

                                at Liskeard, but               dear L. managed to get
                                                                 greatly enjoyed the day.
                                 I attended, and
on going

Itoothache
              to the meeting
              and declined it.
I had the pleasure of sitting between Miss Tregelles and her sister at
Idinner; indeed, was just in clover, next beyond sat Mrs. Williams, an
astonishing woman truly, upwards of eighty years of age, and possess
ing all the activity and vivacity of most women not half that age.

She had to walk about a mile from the meeting to dinner, but made
nothing of it. At dinner she gave us some of her theatrical reminis
cences in her early years, especially of Mrs. Siddons in the character
of Lady Macbeth; and almost electrified a mild guest opposite, by an
imitation of the great actress, in the passage, ` Out! out damned spot ! '
in the sleep-walking scene. We greatly enjoyed our visit to Looe.

IThe week after our return home took the first train on Monday for
IPlymouth, and on arriving there took boat, by which got landed on
the east side of the Sound; my object being to ascertain whether or

     * Southey's amusing poem, explains the desirability of drinking first at the

"Irenowned well, of which Fuller gives the following account :--

          know not whether it is worth reporting that there is in Cornwall, near the
parish of St. Neot, a well arched over with the robes of four kinds of trees, withy,
oak, elm, and ash dedicated to St. Keyne. The reported virtue of this water is this,
that whether husband or wife come first to drink thereof, they get the mastery
thereby."
56                                 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                        [CH- V

Inot the rocks contained the peculiar organic remains which have been
denominated `Cornish fossil fish.'        did succeed in                 fifinndeingoneo,neanvderyI
inferior patch, but nothing further.      The coast is a

greatly enjoyed the ramble, especially the superb view from the mouth
of the river Yealm, the river itself being finely wooded to the water's
edge; then came the ever-glorious sea with upwards of fifty craft of all
rigs, and then the coast of Cornwall from the Rame Head to the

ILizard entire; rarely have seen anything so fine of its kind. About
Inine pm. found myself at the mouth of the river Erme (Ivy Bridge
river), and took up my abode for the night at the Jolly Sailor, at the
Ismall out~of-the-world village of Mothecombe.                           had inquired of a
Ilad for
                       inn                                         and   wIasfobuyndhima    directed
to the                 On                                          door                     butcher
             the best       before entered the place,
             Jolly.         presenting myself at the
engaged in dressing the carcase of a pig, which he had just killed, and
said piggie was hanging in the doorway (the front door). There seemed
no help for so demanded bed of the old woman whom supposed
             I it,                        a

                    a                             I
                      I-                                                 a
                                                                                    is
                                a                                       II
to be mistress of the house, but was answered by the butcher, who

proved to be mine host, in the following words, `Yes, sir, you can
have a bed, so please to walk in, and take seat in the kitchen;
                                                                                                     is I I
would ax you to go into the parlour, but my missus there cleaning

part of the pig, and perhaps you mightn't like the smell o't.' Being of

his opinion acted on his advice, and soon got a capital ham rasher
             m(em)otheprassoafblteheculapndolafdyt)eas; ittthineg  old                                     en
and (for                                                            by  lady whom             first        the
countered                                                               to cheer me         on to

attack. Having disposed of the ham commenced an onslaught on
the butter, of which very small piece was placed before me, but the
dear old creature requested me not to be `afraid of the butter, cos
there's plenty more in the 'ouze, but 'tis allays best to finish up the
bits and scraps.' On Tuesday started to ascend the Erme, and had
  splendid day. At the mouth the river very tame and insignificant
it a                                      I

                                                            is

                                                             I it
    and uninteresting, but soon became very lovely, and only lost this
    character to become grand. Like the Yealm rises on Dartmoor;
                                                                         stopped to bait at
      falls into Bigbury bay (the Yealm does not).
    Ermington, famous only for its leaning spire, and the wretched ortho
    graphy and poetry on the headstones in the graveyard, of which
    copied several examples. A couple of miles more brought me to Ivy

    bridge.  IIcontinued to follow the stream three or four miles above
    the bridge-in fact, got quite on Dartmoor--but as had to get home
                                                                         I

                                                                             it
                                                                                is it

                                                                                         a
    that night could not reach the source of the river; certainly a
    very delightful ramble, and artists might find many a delightful `bit'
in the district.
      "Last week we went down and up the Dart;
                                                                                            charming

    cruise. The helmsman on board the steamer informed me that he had
    been told by many travellers that `if the old rocks and old castles be
      leaved out, the Rhine               not finer than the Dart.' Something like
a                                  it
                                      is
    playing Hamlet with the character of the prince omitted. Yesterday
    Mr. Battersby and were out all day dredging, and got many good
                            I

    things, the ground we selected        that between Berry Head and
                                          I is

                                                      a
    Brixham. Well, now must close, fear my scrawl will not repay the
    trouble of reading, but will serve as proof that have not quite
                          ."                                             I

    forgotten you. .   .    I
1853--1856.]  THE BEEKITES OF TORBAY DISTRICT.                    57

                       Pengelly to lzis Wife.
    I"London, May 29, 1856.-- . . . proceeded to Sheppard's, and

started with him in a cab to take up Stella, and her auntf' on our way
to the Regent's Park Flower Show. Many azaleas formed complete
                       and rich and                                  Veitch,
cones four feet high,  many prizes.  tasteful was the  grouping.  the park,
as usual, carried off                                  on from
                                     I. . . strolled

having declined to return with the Sheppards, and then to Somerset

House to attend the meeting of the Geological Society. Two papers
were read, one by a Mr. Moore on the rocks of Wigtonshire, etc.,
which was discussed by Col. Portlock, Murchison, and Salter; the
other was by the famous Babbage, on the formation of sedimentary

outliers, etc., which called up Portlock, Lyell, Salter, Stephenson the

engineer, Prof. Tyndall, Huxley, etc. It was a magnificent meeting,
Iand made me wish for a town residence. Whilst we were `coffeeizing'
  renewed my acquaintance with many'old friends."

     The following extract from his geological journal describes a
ramble during which he visited Burr Island, situated on a wild
and almost unknown part of the Devonshire coast.

     " [uly 151/1, 1856.--Left Bantham about eight in the morning, croSsed
the Avon at the ferry, and walked along the sands to Borough or Burr
Island. The ceaseless hum of the sea, the wild scream of the sea-gulls,
the magnificent expanse of water, the fine slate cliffs, and the glorious

morning, made me feel unusually free and buoyant. Commenced my
tour round the island on the eastern side. Drab and chocolate slates.
Fine natural arch, through which the waves have cut a passage at east

end. Several thin continuous layers of quartz parallel to the plane of
stratification. Rocks at the back, :16. sea Side of the island, accessible
by boat only. Island not so large as Looe Island, parts of it extremely
wild and even approaching to grandeur. Rabbits very numerous,
difficult to avoid slipping into their burrows, rabbits flitting in every
direction, gulls abundant, frequently perched most picturesquely on
romantic crags. The coast gives striking evidence of the long-con
tinued erosive action of the sea, several almost completely detached
parts of the island, and traces of landslips in places."

    At this time Pengelly was giving special attention to

"Beekites," which are found in considerable numbers in the
Torquay district, although not often met with elsewhere in
England.

     The following letter on the subject, from the late Mr. Robert
Hunt, Keeper of Mining Records at the Museum of Practical
Geology, is worth quoting, as it shows how little was then known

concerning these specimens.

   I" Museum qurattital Geology, fermyn Street, London, fuly 1, 18 56.--

. . . can obtain very little information respecting the Beekites.

                                           " Some Torquay friends.
58                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                          [011- V

It appears that very little has been said or written respecting them

since Dr. Beek, of Bristol, drew attention to them. They are found on
the Greensand fossils of Black Down. We have no specimens here--a
few would be a very acceptable present. Professor Morris tells me
that he is engaged in a full examination of siliceous concretions,

Iamongst which he classes those Beekites--but, as yet, he has not

arrived at any conclusions. At any time shall have much pleasure
in obtaining, if possible, information for you. . . ."

     In the summer of 1856 the British Association met at
Cheltenham. It was the first meeting attended by Pengelly,
who gives his impressions of in a series of letters to his wife.
                                            7,
    " C/zeltenlzam, August                                                                      . You are, of course,
                                                      it,

                                                                                               .

                                                                                  it
                                            1856, 7.30 a.m.-- .
like true woman, dying of curiosity to know about our proceedings at
`the British Association. And mark the word our; reminds me of the
         a
story of the wasp, which had sat on the horn of the ox all day, saying,
W'e have ploughed an acre of ground to-day.' About 7.30 pm. found
my way to the college--the meetings are to be chiefly held there.                                 I
found the company rapidly assembling. . . As had come to the
                     ;                                                      a                         it is
                             a
                                                                             I                           I
                              sI,
                                                                         .
meeting to hear Dr. Daubeny's address, and knew something of the
talking powers of the                       retreated to my original seat. At length
the platform filled in the chair sat the Duke of Argyll, the retiring
president. He made
                                            few introductory remarks, and resigned the
chair to Dr. Daubeny. He read his address, but his voice
                                                                                                                                not

strong enough for the room; so that did not hear half his address,
                                            it

                                                a

                                                  I
though am inclined to think                    good one, and have no doubt will
            I

read well. On his right sat Lord Wrottesley, and next to him sat the
famous Mr. Close, of Cheltenham. He moved vote of thanks to the
president in a very good speech. On the left of the president sat
Lord Stanley, who seconded the vote in not telling but good speech,
                                                      a

good, because decidedly in keeping with the tendency now gaining
ground, of introducing science into our educational institutions; next
him sat Professor Phillips, the General Secretary, man about my
                     a
                                                                         is

                                                                                       a
height, just as bald, year or two older. He was the last speaker, and
in a very facetious speech told the meeting what
                                                                                                  to be done during
the Association week. He kept lords and commons in a roar. Next
Phillips sat Sir Roderick, and next him sat his great antagonist Sedg
wick. Daubeny in his address used the expression `the Silurian and
Cambrian rocks,' which no doubt grated on Murchison's ear, and
agreeably tickled Sedgwick's. The meeting over, we withdrew to an

adjoining room, where chatteration took place."
            I
                                         a
    " C/zelfen/zanz, August 9!];.--         .  .      At the reception-room yesterday
                                                   .

morning        met Grindrod, who introduced me to Symonds,'* of whom
we read so much in connection with the Malvern Naturalists Club. . -
                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                             .
At the Geological Section, Symonds began by reading paper on some
part of Malvern, condemnatory of view held by Ramsay; of course
                                               a

               *  The late Rev. W. S. Symonds, of Pendock.
1853--1856.]               BRITISH ASSOCIATION MEETING.                                          i

                                                                                        59

the latter replied. Phillips and Harkness both spoke approving of the
paper. Then came a paper by Buckman,"l on the Cotswold Hills; it

was followed by two papers from Owen, on different fossil mammalia.
Old Sedgwick grew enthusiastic and eloquent in commenting on them ;
he was followed by Professor Macdonald, of St. Andrew's. . . . Then
came a series of papers, the first by Hull, on the Cotswold Hills--this

paper, or rather the author, was introduced by Murchison; the second
was by Dr. Wright, of this place, and was an attempt to show that what
is usually called lower Oolite is the upper Lias. The third of this
series was by Moore, of Bath, his object being to disprove what Wright
had attempted to prove. He really startled the whole section by pro
fessing to be able to tell what nodules contained fossils, and of what

species they were, and proceeded to verify these by breaking nodules
before us, and, lo and behold, he was right in every instance! `The
                                                         `of Geological clairvoyance
fiI rshtavinestaenvceer,'    said Professor   Ramsay,                                   that
                                             discussion   should have followed, but
                           met with.' A                                                 our'

time was too nearly gone for that, so it is deferred until to-day; still
there remained a little time in which Mr. Edward Lee made two com

munications,  both         on fossils which had been given him  by         persons,  I  who
professed to  have         found them where they ought not to   be        found.        had

encouraged him to introduce them, but told him he would be told he
Ihad been cheated, and the result verified my words. This ended the
sitting.      was extremely sorry for many of the authors; there is at times

such a racket of seats by persons leaving or entering the room, that

they can scarcely hear themselves speak. . . ."

   I"Monday, August IIt/z.-- . . .           do not recollect  thhaatvinI ghaidnfobrmetetedr
                                              was spent, so
you in my last, how Friday evening
begin this by informing you that Sir H. Rawlinson gave a lecture on his

IAssyrian researches; the great room at the college was closely packed,

some said there were two thousand people there, but that greatly

doubt, and am only willing to believe half I hear. Sir Henry has a

good voice, and tells his tale pleasantly. On Saturday we commenced
with a debate arising out of papers read the day before, the point in
dispute being the exact boundary of the Liassic and Oolitic roeks ; then
came a paper by Brodie,1' on some new species of Lias corals, and one
also by him on a new species of Pollia'pes in the inferior Oolite. The
author is well known as a collector of fossil insects. This was followed
by Professor Hennessy reading a paper `On the Relative Distribution
of Land and Water affecting Climate.' Poor fellow, he looked extremely
ill. Then came a paper from the famous Salter `On the great Ptery
gottis.' This drew Sedgwick, Murchison, and others into a discussion

as to the exact line separating the Silurian and Devonian Systems;
then came a paper by Etheridge, of Bristol, as to whether the Bone Bed
of Aust passage should be considered Liassic or Triassic; thus have we

had, in one day, three attempts to draw well-defined divisions in Geo
logical Chronology. The attempt is in my judgment absurd, such lines
have no existence in Nature. Had the world been at various times

                           " The late Professor Buckman, of Cirencester.
                           1' The Rev. B. P. Brodie.
6o                                         WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CIL v.

entirely depopulated, or had the earth's crust again and again been
completely broken up by physical disturbances, then such lines or
divisions would exist, and perhaps might be ascertained. Then we had
a paper ` On the Time required for the formation of Rolled Stones,' by
Moggridge; the author was not present, it was read by the secretary.
Then came Sorby with a working model to illustrate the formation of
Drift Bedding, which Murchison characterized as giving the greatest
possible amount of information in the least possible time. Then came
Vivian, with Kent's Cavern, and introduced his own views as to the
            of the cavern, which gave me an opportunity of replying, and
formation   at some length. Robert Chambers took up the theme, so did

this I did

Professor Rogers, of America. Beete Jukes, the chairman, pronounced
in my favour, and Vivian acknowledged very handsomely that he
thought me right. There were one or two other papers, and the sitting

ended."

     The following extract is also taken from a letter written at
Cheltenham, the date of which is missing.

    "Owen has a most gentle expression, he is extremely courteous to

every one desiring information from him. Phillips spoke at some

length on Owen's paper, and was followed by Sedgwick, who has un
mistakable lines of decision of character in his face; he strongly
condemned the frequent use of negative evidence, stating in reply to
Owen, that it is quite unlikely, and must be considered exceptional,
that the remains of a land animal should find their way to the sea, and
be found in a marine deposit; and that hence we ought not to infer
that terrestrial mammals did not exist in early geological times, from
the negative fact that their remains are not met with in early strata.

Owen replied that negative evidence was worth much more than Sedg
wick admitted; he felt satisfied that mammals did not exist in early

times, for we do not find the remains of marine, i.e., cetaceous, mammals
in the rocks in question. Again, he did not believe that marine reptiles
lived in the earliest times; their remains are not found, and such

creatures were not needed, as the saurian fish, that then abounded, per
                I

                                                is,
formed the same functions; that kept down superabundant marine
life. On which
                remarked that Owen's conclusions respecting the
non-existence of early marine reptiles had not been drawn from the
negative fact of their remains not being found, but from the positive
fact that fish remains were found capable of doing the same work, and

I  concluded by asking, `15 Professor Owen acquainted with any early

animals which discharged the functions now performed by the cetacea?                                         is

He replied that `early fish did the work both of the later reptiles and                                            '
the present cetacea.'                        have much to say on this point, but not now."
                                           I
on " `CT/hzeeltenClzoarmre, laAtitoungusotf
                                                                                      a
                                                                                                   a
                                             rat/a--Last night we  had lecture from                   Grove,*
                                              Physical Forces,'    subject of which                   he a

thorough master, and on which he published many years ago. The

            * The Rt. Hon. Sir W. R. Grove, D.C.L., F.R.S.
1853--1856.]  NEGATIVE EVIDENCE IN GEOLOGY.  6i

room was densely packed. The lecturer is a thoughtful, studious-looking
man, has a good voice, and a perfectly felicitous simplicity of illustration.

It is certainly a wise plan to hold these evening lectures, in which men
are selected who have the power of making profound subjects popular;
it helps to diffuse knowledge, whilst it may be hoped that the sectional

meetings help to extend its boundaries. . . . five o'clock. My paper has
                                 Tennant considered Beekites as one form
Ibeen read.                     thought the fossil character of the nucleus

of silicious
                (On Beekites.)
              concretions, and
                    am coming home tomorrow, if all be well. My
purely accidental.

home is very, very dear to me. . . ."
62               WILLIAM PENGELLY.        [CI-I. VI.

                 CHAPTER VI.

                 FIRST VISIT TO IRELAND.

                 1857 TO END OF YEAR.

AT the opening of the Abbey Road Public Schools at Torquay,
in January, 1857, Pengelly briefly addressed the meeting. In

his speech, he expressed his belief that the present age was
Ifnot one " of education, it was an age of instruction ; the difference
was momentous.   true education prevailed, would Mormonism

have existed? Would the belief in clairvoyance, spirit-rapping,

table-turning, and such-like fallacies, as had recently disgraced

this and other countries, have existed? The fact was that the

majority of scholars of the present day were taught to be rather

passive recipients of knowledge, than active inquirers. What

was required was to teach Comparatively few things, but to teach

them thoroughly. Parents should be less concerned about the

rapid passing over of a great number of rules in Arithmetic than
that what their children learnt should be thoroughly learnt, so

that when they left school they should be in a position to acquire

knowledge for themselves. It was true that vast improvements

were constantly being made in the various departments of science ;

but he did not think that public enlightenment had kept pace

with the progress of science. People were surrounded on all

hands by wonders, and what was wanted was to get them to

think. Once successful in that respect, the love of acquiring

knowledge naturally followed."

    Pengelly was at this time President of the Torquay Mechanics'

Institute, the members of which presented to him a copy of the
" Encyclopaedia Britannica" as a testimonial.

    The volumes of the " Encyclopzedia," bore the following

inscription :--
1857.]        _ LECTURES AT TORQUAY.                               63

                                      " Presented
                                                 t0

                           W. Pengelly, Esq., F.G. S.
                   By the Members and Friends of the

                        Torquay Mechanics' Institute,
                              as a tribute of esteem,

               and in recognition of his untiring services
               during a period of more than twenty years.

                                  March 25, 1857."

                             Mrs. Pengelly t0 leer Mot/zer.

     "Mare/z 28, I857.--. . . William's old friend, Dr. Scoresby, the
Arctic traveller, is to be buried this morning at Upton Church; he

has been ill a long time with heart complaint. It is a great loss to

Torquay, as he has several times given us lectures here, and those
with regard to the search for Sir John Franklin have been especially
interesting. . . .

     "William's Testimonial from the Mechanics' Institute, in acknow
ledgment of his more than twenty years' work, was presented to him
last week at the close of Mr. Vivian's lecture there. . . ."

    Of the twentieth lecture of a course on "Physical Geography,"
which Pengelly delivered at the Museum at Torquay, on March
30, 1857, his wife writes to her mother early in the following

month.

to   "April,   1857.--. . . Most   gratifying votes   of thanks    were moved
    William   at the conclusion                      lectures, in  which it was
                                  of his course of
said that none such could be heard in England, out of London, or a
University town. Miss Burdett Coutts came up afterwards, very
warmly expressing her extreme interest in them, and introduced me
to several of her party, who were all equally pleased; they praised

my diagrams much more than they deserved. . . ."

     Notwithstanding his engagements at this time with the work
of the Mechanics' Institute and his lectures at the Torquay
Natural History Society, Pengelly found time to lend a helping
hand to many other matters, both in his own locality and else

where.

                        Pengelly to his Wife.

    I"Stake Newz'ngton, 1857.---. . . On my arrival in the evening,
found an invitation to  join my friends next door    at a  party at Alfred
                          Babbage, Sorby, Morris,    and   Rupert Jones.
Tylor's, where I found
IWas it not a little, or indeed, a good deal vexing, to find that Ruskin

had just left? Babbage and got on well; indeed, with Sorby, we
64                        WILLIAM PENGELLY.                               [CIL VI.

Imade a little group and went into Slaty Cleavage, Transportation of
Mud, Plurality of Worlds, etc.         was delighted to hear Babbage

begin to hold forth that, for anything that appeared to the contrary,
                                    world of intellectual
there  Imhigahvte  possibly be a    in reply to Whewell's  whales; the very
thing              frequently said                         book. Only keep
Babbage in a good temper, and he really is quite charming. He
told us a good story of Brewster. You are aware that Brewster was a
leading man in the Scotch Free Church Movement, and also that he

has recently married a young Miss Kirk Palmer; some wag has said,
since the marriage, that Brewster has at last embraced the true
kirk. . . ."

                          Pengelly to fair Wife. .

      "Stoke Newingtorz,   Ala) 26,    18a5t7.r--I .    . . Having fixed   to meet
Mrs. Yorke at Jermyn                                  o'clock on Monday   morning,
                          St. Museum,
I took omnibus here yester morn for Charing Cross, and getting there
I I Iearly, started to see G. Wilson before was due at the Museum.
pushed on, and had to pass close to a large number of soldiers with
bands in full pipe preparing for a review, great crowds of people were

moving towards them from all quarters. It really is a brilliant

smepxyeccittePaedca,lec,eanadpnrdainpcpmipeilaleirtssarytroapmsiudugslgyicesotioszmintorgutiloyonutfatosocfianlaml tieon,nge,b'us temvheuarspycpleinlsye.,rvbeIefsofoereuenmdsI
                                                      band having struck up `The

                                                      are two sides to the picture,
I Ihad come to the
girl I left behind
                   resolution to enlist, the

                   me,' I recollected there
and was no longer in danger. On reaching the Museum
                                                                          found

Mrs. Yorke had not arrived, so hunted up some old geological
acquaintances, officers of the
Bailey, Ramsay, and Salter.          Museum, amongst    others Robert     Hunt,
                                    Hunt introduced me                    intro
                                                        to Bristow. I
duced Mrs. Yorke to Ramsay, and we went into the question of well
Idefined lines of demarcation in Geological Chronology, the existence

`of which, you will remember, strongly deny. Ramsay admitted that
their existence could not be proved, that the progress of discovery

was daily rendering their existence less likely, but contended that we
were not yet in a position to assert their non-existence. He then
kindly showed us the specimens, on which he founds his belief that
IGlaciers existed during the Permian age, and certainly the evidence

is striking. You will remember that frequently had to allude to
this during my lectures on the Temperature of the Earth."

                          Pengelly to [air W'ife.

     "Stake Newingtan,    I857.----. . . The Hanburys would not hear of
                          decided on taking a cab home, on leaving Miss
my sleeping out, so I
Coutts'. But Alfred Tylor, being engaged to go to Burlington House,
to hear the great Surgeon, Paget, read a paper on the rhythmic action

of the heart, before the Royal Society, wished me to accompany him ;
but as that was quite out of the question, and as Burlington House is
Ilittle more than a stone'sthrow from Miss Coutts', he agreed to call
for me. . . . On entering the drawing-room,             found Mr. Barlow
1857.]                            MEETS CHARLES DICKENS.                                               65

I(Secretary of the Royal Institution) there.                      was directly introduced
to him, he was most cordial ; desired me to come as frequently as
possible to the Royal Institution, and especially wished me to come
on Saturday to hear Scott (Principal of Owen's College) lecture On
Moral Philosophy. Barlow had been invited to dine, but had a prior
engagement, so left very soon. . "

    I"At length the guests began to arrive. First came a clergyman

named Stokes, had met his sisters at Miss Coutts' at Torquay ; then
Charles Dickens, beard, white waistcoat, fancy shirt and all--he is

splendid company certainly, but strikes one as being altogether an
actor; then came my friend Captain Gordon, and then Wheatstone;
Sorby was to have been there, but did not turn up through some
mistake. At dinner we talked of Education, Extension of the Electoral

Franchise, etc. Dickens talked with good sense on all topics. Dinner
over, puns and riddles flew thick and fast; unfortunately, Mrs. Browne

Ihad a lot without the answers. To one of them, `When is most beef

tea made?' replied, `When John Bull is dissolved in tears;' the
answer was accepted. . . ."

In the summer of 1857, Pengelly visited York.

                                        Pengelly to lzis I/Vife.

     " York, August 6, 1857.--. . . The city seems quite an old-world
place, but not so strikingly so as Chester, and not so un-English or
un-nineteenth-century as Dartmouth. There are numbers of new names

on the signboards,* but not many whimsical ones. The only ones I
                                                       `Toes,' `Nutbrown,' `Boast,'
Ihave thought worth noting down                  are,
and `Winspear.'                   am told there  is a  `Longbones,' but I have not

had the pleasure of catching him. The streets are not generally named

`streets' but have some distinctive name, no doubt historical, such as
` Bootham,' ` Holgate,' ` Micklegate,' `Skeldergate,' `Lendal,' etc. .
mI atogonkificaenpte, epbuitntIo        Cathedral, or rather Minster, which
                                   the  not able to see all of the interior.                        Iiswceenrttaianlslyo
                                  was

to see the Museum, which is really splendid, situated in extensive and
beautiful gardens, which contain on one side the ruins of St. Mary's
Abbey, and a Roman Multangular tower on the other. The antiquarian

collection is an extremely fine one. . . ."

     Later in the month he had the pleasure of visiting his old
and greatly valued friend Mr. William Wilson at Mansfield, and

the following letter to his wife shows how much he delighted
in the traditions of the neighbourhood.

    "Sherwood Hall, August 13, 1857.--. . . Yesterday after dinner
we drove through a circuit of about twenty miles perhaps, through
Sherwood forest, and extremely enjoyable it was, such a number of
splendid old oaks, and such charming drooping birches, with abundance

                 * A subject in which he took much interest.                                        F

                                                                                                 '
66                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                        [CIL VI.

of heather just bursting into fiower. Among the objects of interest
we had first the `Parliament Oak' under which King John, in a great
emergency, once summoned a Parliament; next the `Butcher,' or
`Shambles Oak,' a huge hollow trunk, nearly thirty feet in circumfer
ence, with a still vigorous top. Within the trunk tradition says that
IRobin Hood,                            uncooked venison; it is
               Esq.,  used to hang his  were in situ very lately.             said that
the hooks on   which   the joints hung
                                                                               I don't
know when enjoyed a drive more; emphatically the land of legend
and ballad, with an abundance of living vegetable witnesses of the
scenes of other times, and the usages of a bygone phase of civilization.
We got home a little before nine p.m., and after supper Mr. Wilson
                                                           of       `                     '
drew    his dear old  mother       out to repeat portions      the     Night  Thoughts  3

it was really beautiful to listen to her reciting, with good taste and fine

emphasis, Young's tersely epigrammatic lines. . . ."

     After spending a few days at Manchester with his wife,
and seeing the magnificent Exhibition of Pictures just then
assembled there, he proceeded to visit Ireland in company with
his brother-in-law, and records, in a series of letters to his wife,
his first impressions of the country with which he afterwards

became more familiar.

      "Bus/'2   Mlls, ZVM'i/z      QfI  Ireland, August 18, I857.---.         . . I am
extremely                               could not   conveniently write
               concerned that                      you will be curious         you this
                                        I am sure                              to know
morning, more especially as
my first impressions of Ireland. We reached Fleetwood a little after
time, but as the steamer always waits the arrival of the train, that did

not matter; we were taken by the train quite to the steamer's side,
and in a very few minutes found ourselves on board. W. and not a

few other landsmen looked gravely at the sky, and feared a rough

passage, and when they found the boat pitching more freely than they
had expected, they believed their fears fully realized. Some of the
old salts, on the other hand, talked of a `nice breeze,' of a `splendid
passage,' and in reply to the remark that `it was rough,' said that,
I`were it                          all the old women in the country would be
                                      do not remember having ever enjoyed a
sailors.'
        aIlwcaoynsfesssmotohtaht,
voyage more. We made acquaintance with an artistic gentleman. Of
course W. came in for the lion's share of the talk, which suited my desire
to talk as little as possible.* About ten we went below for the purpose
of `turning in,' as we sailors say. The scene which met our eyes was

whimsical enough; all the seats were transformed into beds, and above
them were placed other beds, looking as much like coffins as anything;

other beds were arranged on the floor, and every bed found an
Ioccupant--I am not sure that it would be safe to say sleeper. W. and
   occupied one each. Beneath us, on the lockers or seats, lay others,
        us on the same level, and in close
inside                                             contact, lay        others  on  the
floor.  I could not sleep much, so that I          was able to         sit up  in  the

night at times, just to study the strange group.

               * He had been suffering from one of his throat attacks.
1857.]  BELFAST AND PORTRUSH.                       67

I got up finally at half-past four,  and went on deck, h0ping to catch a

                                     I had failed to do last night, but

                                     Ireland ahead, and Scotland on the
Iglimpse of

was again
        the Isle of Man,  which
                          found
        disappointed. I

weather bow, and it seemed to carry me back to my seaboy life, to watch

the gradual coming on of day, the steady development of the land we

were approaching, the various craft we passed, and the sea-birds that

floated and wheeled around and by us. Soon after six we entered

Belfast Lough, and one by one the passengers came on deck all looking
more or less seedy. About half-past seven we landed at Belfast, which

we found having all the appearance of prosperity, activity, wealth, and
taste; it did not come up, or come down, whichever you like, to my
idea of an Irish town, and it was not possible to believe it Ireland,
until we reached the railway station, whither we at once drove to

deposit our luggage, and there we found that, at any rate, it was not
England, seeing that a railway porter appeared ` taking a shock of his
duden,' alias, ` smoking his pipe,' which quite put my pipe out. Next

we breakfasted, and then strolled through the town, and soon after ten
set off by rail for Portrush, the nearest railway approach to the Cause--
way. The first half of the journey was performed pretty well, but the
latter half was slow indeed. About two, in due time, we reached

Portrush, about seven miles (Irish) from the Causeway. Between
the point reached and that to be reached the coast is superb so
that we decided to walk, and started for that purpose soon after three.
The first object that attracted us was a series of very fine chalk cliffs,
                                                                            .

famous on account of being altered by the basalt of the Causeway.
This chalk is in horizontal beds, is harder than chalk usually, in con
sequence of the heat of the basalt, and contains great numbers of flint
        ntyopt eas.lwayIs,oninly
nodules, sometimes, but

Iof unquestionable chalk
                                         parallel layers, and many fossils
                                         saw Belemnites, but obtained
Terebratalte and an Ee/zinus from a quarryman. The chalk is much
fissured and caverned by the sea, in most cases it is overlaid by the
basalt which has clearly overflowed. Some of the sections are of great
beauty, and made me frequently wish for you to make sketches. Up
to this point we had seen no columnar basalt, but found it spheroidal
with occasional bands of volcanic ash. Leaving the chalk we next
reached (also on the coast) the ruins of Dunluce Castle, which has
undoubtedly been lauded beyond its deserts; still there are points from

which the remains form an interesting and picturesque group, and the
situation is certainly very fine. Beyond this we had traces of the
columnar form, but nothing more than faint predictions of what we

hope to see to-morrow. Soon after seven we reached the Causeway
hotel, and found it full, so had to turn back to this village, and here

Ithe chief hotel was also full, so we took the second, which is not quite
up to the mark, but we have frequently done worse.  have very

much enjoyed the day; it is a district of new geological features to me,

Iand would afford me much interest for a longer time ; indeed, feel
that we shall not half do the North of Ireland, but it cannot be helped,

Iand less regret as have decided to devote myself to the geology

of Devonshire. The district through which we have passed, i.e. the
        it,

            I

                                     .

                                     ."
district from Belfast, seems entirely volcanic. We do not suppose we

have seen genuine Paddy yet. .
68                            \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                               [C H. 'VI.

     "Partrus/z, August 20, 1857.-----. . . Yesterday we started pretty
early from Bush Mills, and walked a second time to the Causeway.
Arrived there, we courageously declined the services of the guides
who prowl about. We were quite prepared from reports, etc., to be
disappointed, and so indeed we were, but then it was a most agreeable
                          To attempt description would be to display my
disappointment.

weakness. Whether regarded as a geological phenomenon, as a

subject for a picture, or rather a series of pictures, or as a great

     cyclopean terminus, the Causeway is a singularly splendid object.

     IHaving penetrated as far as possible under the cliff we retraced our
     Isteps, and then rambled on the margin of the precipice to a much

     greater distance, and as point after point opened, became sensible

     that we were leaving much too much unexplored, so that we agreed
     to alter our plans, to remain in the North until Saturday, and to reach

     Moyallen that evening, to give up Killarney and the West, and conse
     Iquently to h0pe for a second Irish trip. After breakfast we started by
     boat for Bally Castle, a distance of nearly twenty miles.              was much

pleased to find Lias with Ammonites, in contact with Trap, by which
it is much hardened, yesterday on the beach here. This is a most

charming spot, there is a splendid sea walk, with a glorious open sea
having no land nearer than America. Whilst strolling on this walk

yesterday, I met my old friend and pupil Urquhart, and had a pleasant

     stroll with him and his wife. . . ."

       "Bally Castle, August 20, 1857.-- . . . We are now journeying
     Isouthwards, and have  hathdinakspIlenmdeidntiodnaeyd,  though it did  not commence
                                                               in my last    that we were
     very auspiciously.
     intending to reach this place from Portrush by boat. The voyage
     would certainly have been a very splendid one in suitable weather 3 but
     though the sea was as smooth as could be wished, and there was very
     little wind, and that little fair, yet a dense fog, which increased with the

     morning, rendered the attempt at best an unwise one, so we abandoned

a it,  and made our journey by car. Between eleven and twelve o'clock
     the fog all but left us. Our road was by the sea, which was perfect in
     colour; the cliffs and islets, and the distant island of Rathlin, looked

     their very, very best, and we intensely enjoyed the drive. On the way
     we stopped at spot famous in these parts, under the name of Carrick
                     aIa
     a-Rede, an island separated from the mainland by a chasm sixty feet
     wide. This chasm         spanned by bridge mainly of ropes, on which
                          is    it

     rest some not over-safe or strong planks. The bare idea of crossinga
     made me sick; of course, we neither thought for one moment of
                          would not try for a thousand guineas, false step
     attempting it.                                                         a

     would precipitate one down ninety feet to the sea; and yet                it      said
                                                                                   is

     that during the salmon-fishing season (to facilitate which the bridge was
     put up) children cross in perfect unconcern.
       "We reached this soon after three o'clock, and at once started onis
                            it
     walk to see famous headland known as airhead, about three miles
                                it,

                                                F
off. We did not quite reach our object being rather to see than
                                                                               it

to see from it. It            truly a magnificent headland, upwards of six

hundred feet high, the upper two hundred columnar basalt quite
1857.]      THE GIANT`S CAUSEWAY AND DUBLIN.                                                _69

vertical ;  the lower part slopes               with a steep  talus to the sea, and consists
of beds     of the carboniferous                formation.
                                                              I saw a great many fossils,

shells, crinoids, stigmaria, lepidodendrons, etc. ; but none worth taking.

All being well, we travel by mail-car along the coast to Belfast, or near
tomorrow and shall feel am by so much nearer to you and my
it,                                             I

       I                                                 .
                        ;                                       ."
                  I
                                                                  I

                                                                                        is
home.       have very much enjoyed my trip. . . . But why should
                                                                                            a
bother myself about the geology of this or any other distant district,
                                                                                                 is I
when there are so many unsolved problems connected with the pre
Adamic history of lovely Devon? .

    " Moyallen, A ugust 25, 185 7.-- . . . Though have little or nothing
to communicate, do not like breaking through my practice of daily
        is
             a

                a

                   aI
letter. We took drive of several miles yesterday. The district

essentially manufacturing one; and though there                                             no large town,
            large population, apparently in comfortable condition. It
there

`seems that spinning and bleaching are the principal employments. Our
kind hosts wish to detain us till to-morrow, and as we can reach Dublin
to-morrow quite in time for the first meeting of the Association, we have
concluded to remain.       have quite decided to return by way of Holy
      ;

         it

                         II

                                                    is
                                                                                        a

                                                            I

                                                                                                                                       a
head        will cost me little more in time or money, and will afford me
the pleasure of once again seeing beautiful Conway.
                                                                                            forgot to tell
you in the right place that on our way from Cushendall we met
respectably dressed man, so very drunk that the road seemed hardly
                           have already described the road as one of
wide enough for him.

great beauty, winding along the coast, and about from ten to twenty
feet above the sea. This road bounded by low parapet on the sea

side. Just after we passed him, the poor fellow staggered against the
parapet and went head over heels completely over it. Of course we
concluded that he must have killed himself, and two of us ran back,

regardless of the assurance of the driver that, his being the mail-car, he
could not wait one moment. Before we had run back ten steps, he was

recrossing the wall, apparently unhurt, on perceiving which we returned
to our seats, when the driver sagely remarked to me, `Shure, the fall
will waken him bit.'
it

        a

            it

                      a
                            a

                                         .
                                             .

                                      ."
"Dublin, August 27.-- . . . Last night we had our opening address,
and was indeed great treat. Dr. Lloyd, the President,                                       capital
                                                                                            is
                                                                                                a
                                                                                                              a
reader, and his address was at once profound and simple. The follow
ing point in especially struck me, namely, the date cannot ripen her
fruit at lower temperature than 70°, and the pine cannot endure
higher than 70°, hence the climate in which these grow together cannot
vary more than 1° on either side of 71°. The Bible assures us that
they did grow together in early times in Palestine, and we know they
grow together there now, hence we are sure that the climate of Palestine
has undergone no change. This thought was much applauded. On
the platform observed General Sabine, Professor Phillips, Robinson,
            I

l-Iincks (the Orientalist), Nasmy'th, Portlock, Lord Wrottesley, Jukes,
Macdonald, Daubeny, Harkness, Lord Carlisle (Lord Lieutenant),
Hennessy, and Sir W. Hamilton. Lord Carlisle moved the vote of
thanks in a capital speech, and Lord Wrottesley seconded it. In

addition to the sectional meetings, we are to have soirée to-night,
                                                              a
                                                                                             a
7O                         \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [CIL Vl.

lecture from Professor W. Thomson * on the Atlantic Cable to-morrow

night, and a lecture from Dr. Livingstone on Monday night. On
Thursday next there are to be excursions, one to Killiney and Wicklow,
one to Galway, Isles of Arran, and one to Parsonstown, to see Lord
IRosse's telescope. All of which are forbidden fruit to me, seeing that
   must reach  home         on that  day.     Well,   now   comes  the calling with the
introductions   Dr.        Evanson    so   kindly    sent           would sooner walk
                                                           me. I
through the county of Wicklow than do it ; but, of course, it must be

done. . . ."

     "  Dublin, August 28 --- . . . After breakfast I called       on W       ,  and
        repaired to the Section-rooms, where I met sundry
then                                                               old friends.     I
took    my specimen from Cornwall, which, in spite of              M`Coy, I have

always pronounced to be a portion of a fish, and showed it privately to
sundry bigwigs. They all individually, and without knowing the
opinion of either of the others, pronounced me right, and without
hesitation too; moreover, they all regarded it as a triumph, and a great
fIacsthoinwegdeoiltogtoy.      You will not wonder at my being overjoyed about it.
                           Phillips, Bowerbank, Bailey, Iukes, and Lord Enniskillen
(to whom R. Were Fox introduced me). Next to Sir P. Egerton, who
is not here, Lord Enniskillen is the highest authority we have on fishes.

IThe papers yesterday were not without interest, but were not likely to

be popular. After dinner went with my kind hostess, Mrs. Edmondson,
and her children, to see St. Patrick's Cathedral. . . . The curator is

himself a character, and tells some good things, much as Addison tells
us the custodian of Westminster Abbey did to good old Sir Roger de
Coverly. In the evening came a soirée in the museum-rooms of the
         Irish Society,    and a brilliant scene it was. Science, fashion,
Royal     ugliness, were   met in one room.                  I saw Sedgwick
beauty,    who had not     appeared before.           There                      and
Rogers,                                                      amongst others,     Mr.
                                                     I met,
                           Lister's daughter), and her brother, my old friend
Pim, his wife  (I.
                   ].

                            I
Lister. They wish me to dine with them tomorrow. It involves                      Ia
short journey by rail; still, think may go.
                                           I                 was promoted at the

                                               .

                                               I

                                                        ."

                                                        I
Association, being placed on the General Committee, and also on that

of the Geological Section. Well, now must conclude. Tell baby
will write her a letter soon; thank her for her letter to me, and tell her
  must bring back for her to read. .
I              it
                             it
     "L`ublin, August 3r, 1857.--All things come to an end, and this
month among them, seems. Ends are serious things, dear, always

serious, though sometimes pleasant, sometimes painful.             I     hope the

end of this month, however, will be pleasant to both of us. But to my
task of recording. On Saturday morning
        I                                                  proceeded to call on Sir

                        a

                                                  I
Henry Marsh, M.D., to whom Dr. Evanson had sent me an introduc
         had brief but very pleasant interview with Sir Henry and
tion.

Lady Marsh, both very pleasant. They gave me an invitation to dine

with them that evening, but most kindly allowed me to leave an
                                                                              it

open question. Next proceeded to the Geological Committee-room,
                           I

                                   * is

                                         I
and energetically assisted in the business there by reading the pro
gramme for the day, that to say, did nothing but talk, etc., because

                                     Now Lord Kelvin.
!857.]         THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.                                          71

there     was  nothing   else to do. At eleven the sections assembled as
usual,    and  as usual
                         I took my place in the Geological, which promised
and proved to be of very high interest to the geologist, but probably
not to the vulgar. Professor W. B. Rogers, of Boston, U.S., read a paper
on the discovery of Paradoxirles in New England, in rocks heretofore
considered Azoic ; another splendid hint from the stony volume of the
insufficiency of negative evidence. Then came a highly interesting

report on Earthquakes, on which I had a little to say. Then came the

great subject of Slaty Cleavage in a series of papers from different

authors, and a capital discussion on them, which ended in a confession

that, though mechanical agency has probably produced the main

phenomena observed, there are still residuary phenomena which cannot
be explained, but which are probably the effect of molecular, perhaps

polar forces, a conclusion amounting almost to a compromise, but
which seems not unfairly to express the present state of our knowledge
on the question, and which gratified R. W. Fox, who sat very near me
all the day. On leaving the section,                          R. W. Fox introduced me to
Mrs. Lloyd, the wife of the President
                                                              of the Association. I informed
her that Dr. Evanson had kindly sent me an introduction to Dr. Lloyd,

Iand it was arranged that was not to wait for ceremony, but accost
Ithe doctor wherever might find him. Then came a promenade in
the Botanical Gardens, which, as old Pepys would say, was `mighty
               The grounds are                                                   laid out, and are well
                                                                                and his wife, and talked
               In the gardens I
Ipleasant.'                                                   very beautifully
                                                              met Dr. Lloyd
kept. . . .
with them awhile, then met a Torquay friend, then a series of geo
logical acquaintances, and amongst others Professor W. B. Rogers; we
quite fraternized. Then in the evening came a soirée, at the rooms of
the Royal Irish Academy, which contain a capital Library, and a
Museum of Antiquities, rich to overflowing with early Irish remains.
The tables almost groaned beneath microscopes, and photographic and

other pictures of round towers, etc. A large garden connects the
rooms with the Mansion House. All the public rooms in the latter

were open to us, the connecting garden being covered with canvas, so
as literally to convert the garden into a room. One of the rooms at
the Mansion House is called from its form the round room; it was
built in order_ to give a dinner to George the Fourth, and the Queen
has dined in it. It is a very fine apartment. Here refreshments were
provided, and every one partook at his pleasure. A band was stationed
in the                                                                                     of the lighter
spirits,  orchestra,  and on its playing a lively                               air, some  away, remark
          male and    female, got up a wee dance.
                                                                                 I turned
ing that `it was painful to see the understandings of philosophers
Ishaken.' Then came the Lord Lieutenant, making himself very
agreeable.     frequently came in contact with Professor W. B. Rogers,

who remarked that he felt we must be drawn together by sympathy or
                                                              of the sort, perhaps mesmerism. Well, now
pII ocmlaaurnstffioncrcdloes,oen,oer.leas.ovmi.nge."thtinhge
                                                              report of yesterday to another opportunity, if

     During the next month Pengelly received the following letter
on the subject of fossil fishes from Peach--
72                          WILLIAM PEN GELLY.                                       [Cl--I. VI.

II     "  W'itk,  Septemler 14, 18 5 7.--Many thanks for yours of the 9th inst.
    had   been    thinking to write to you about your paper on the Beekites.

     was always much pleased and interested with them when living in
IDevon, and have frequently thought about them, and of late much

more than ever, for when in Sutherland last month obtained a great
tfmoriaspnsyiIlsg'fooutsnstitlihsl eIm(gSoiilnturnaiaefnwe)wloiicnnali'at5ie5sl.o,caaIlintyfidndhsaadtihdIemttiomaehbautvonedhaan`vbte,eevfonisriteidndevmoseiydvelarosatlf
other places I might have probably done more. You will probably
hear about them one day from Sir R. Murchison. My motive for
mentioning them at all is to ask you whether the enclosed piece of a
fossil is towered wit/l Beekites? It is evidently cherty or flinty matter,
Iand is formed like the Beekite. This came from Durness metamorphic
limestone.        should be glad to hear your opinion.

    I"Although Professor M`Coy pooh-poohed the fossil fishes of
bweCrvhooeirocrnmyhwarIselwlso,pebemptactytinteoofdooprincihnlieoiamntnh.ehIacsnIlieffnvaseemvrbeercfteowlnbtefieedetnhennaFttcohwhateehnyagtweadats,nwdoarniPgdoohrltpatelhatrhrlrteoooeug,gesahtprheeecrsi--mphhienainsevses
of fishes, and as well, there are other portions which belonged to fishes.
One large specimen now in the Penzance Museum is much like the
spine of the Hylodus of the Lias, but not serrated. One of them is
very large. None of these spines were seen by McCoy. I wrote him
and told him he was wrong in saying that no fish remains had been
          in Cornwall. He said he might             be. I
found     on the Cornish rocks and fossils.          I did  have not yet seen his
paper                                                       expect this; Professor
                                              But no--have you a copy? if so
                                              return it after reading it--if you
ISedgwick would have        sent
                            me?
could you lend it to
                                  it to me.

                                   I would
would or could it would be a favour
                                                indeed.     live so completely out
of the world of science, I see no                         puIblwicaastiownsorkionfg
                                              scientific                             any kind.
When you were           enjoying yourself  I  at Dublin                               away in
the Highlands          of Sutherland.
                                               spent a    month there and much

enjoyed myself, and got a splendid collection of fossils from Durness.

     "P.S.----I intended to congratulate you on being able to use such
                                                       pronounced your fossil Fisk.
names as those         you  mention    as   having  I  mean the men not the fossil
                       and  them.          course
Long life   to    you                Of

        7,
fix

     Mrs. Pengelly's letters to her mother give a glimpse of their
life at this period.

                            Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Mot/zen

     " Ortaber 7th.-- . . . We paid a very pleasant visit last evening to
Iour friend Thos. Christy Wakefield (William's kind host in Ireland).

  was interested to find from him, that General Nicholson, now before
Delhi, is his nephew. T. C. Wakefield spoke in the highest terms of
                                                            He was taken
him, says he was always so steady and thoughtful.
prisoner by the Afghans in the Kyber Pass when sixteen years of age,
at which place he lost two brothers; he was kept prisoner for many
1857.]  F. MYERS, PENGELLY'S PUPIL.                                   73

months by Dost Mohammed, who tried very much to persuade him to
change his religion and become a Mohammedan. . . ."

        1111's. Pengelly to lzer Mot/zer.

     "Ottooer 17, 1857.-- . . . Last night we attended Mr. Vivian's
soirée at the Bath Saloon; it was quite a bright affair, every one

seemed determined to enjoy and to be sociable we had much chatis a
with various interesting people; amongst others lady came up andit,a
                                             .
introduced herself to William, and she proved to be Mrs. Brockedon,." a ;
the widow of the famous Mr. Brockedon (originally watchmaker atit
                                                        a
Totnes), who made the remarkable discovery of hardening black lead
powder by means of violent blow, so as to make perfectly solid to
be used as pencils, etc. He made     large fortune by it. We were
                                  a

much pleased to have made her acquaintance. .
"ZVooember lit/z.-- . . . William went very pleasant excursion
down the Dart yesterday with Mr. Gosse, the Naturalist.       We see
good deal of him, he an exquisite artist in his own line.             a
                                                                "

                                                           .

     During the winter of 1857, Pengelly, whose ability as ana
instructor and former of character gave him strong hold on
the affections of most of the pupils for whose welfare he laboured
during so many years of his life, had a very quick pupil in
Frederick Myers. Writing many years afterwards to obtain
some information, Mr. Myers thus refers to his tutor's lessons--

"Detemoer 3o, 1883.---You have doubtless forgotten two little boys
to whom you taught `Heights and Distances,' and other trigono
metrical puzzles at Bronshill, Torquay, in December, 1857, and January,
1858. One of them, however, remembers those months as the only
time in his life when he was vividly interested in mathematics--and
consequently retains a clear image of his instructor.         Mr. A. R.
Wallace has just sent'me
                             most interesting pamphlet of yours, called
`Is itafact?' .
        .
             ."

                          a
74                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [CH. VII.

                        CHAPTER VII.

    BRIXHAM CAVERN AND THE DEVONSHIRE CAVES.

                                                         1858 AND 1859.

IN 1858 the discovery of a new Bone Cavern at Brixham

greatly interested Pengelly, and he at once visited the spot, and
entered into negotiations with the proprietor, on behalf of the
Torquay Natural History Society, for a thorough exploration.
While arrangements for this matter were pending, Dr. Hugh
Falconer, having heard of the discovery, came to Torquay to
make inquiries respecting it. The result of his deliberations
with Pengelly led to the following arrangement--that, as the
Torquay Natural History Society had not sufficient funds at its

disposal for a systematic investigation of the cavern, Dr Falconer
should obtain a grant from the Royal and Geological Societies
for the purpose, Pengelly undertaking the superintendence of
the work.

     The remarkable discoveries which were made, formed the
subject of Pengelly's paper, read that same year before the
Leeds Meeting of the British Association, on "Arecently dis

covered Ossiferous Cavern, at Brixham, near Torquay." A

quarter of a century later, in his Address to the Department
of Anthropology at the Southport Meeting of the British
Association in 1883, he described the apathy and scepticism
with which all geological evidence as to the Antiquity of Man
had previously been received, even by British geologists of the
first rank. He goes on to give a short summary of the history
of the Cave, and the results that the explorations have had in

stimulating scientific investigation.
     The following extract from this Address is worth quoting :--

Wi_nd"EmailrllyHiilnl,  1858, the workmen engaged in a limestone quarry on
                        overhanging the fishing town of Brixham, in South Devon,
1858--1859.]            THE BRIXHAM BONE CAVERN.                                     75

Ibroke unexpectedly a hole through what proved to be the roof of an
unknown and unsuspected cavern.                     visited it very soon after the dis
covery, and secured to myself the refusal of a lease to include the right
of exploration. As the story of this Cavern has been told at some
length elsewhere (see PM]. Trans., voL clxiii. pp. 471--572 ; or Tram.
Der/on. Aswan, vol. vi. pp.           5--856), it  will here suffice to say that at  the
instance of the late Dr.      H7.7     Falconer,    the eminent palaeontologist,     the

subject was taken up very cordially by the Royal and Geological
Societies of London ; a Committee was appointed by the latter body; the
                                      the superintendence of Mr.
exploration    was      placed under   being the only resident        m(neomwbePrrofeosfsotrh)e
Prestwich     and       myself; and,

Committee,      the actual superintendence fell         of necessity  to me.   doubt
     " The    following facts connected with            this Cavern   were no

influential   in leading to the  decision to have it explored.                 _     an
              was a virgin cave  which had been hermetically sealed
    " I. It                                                                  during

incalculably long period, the last previous event in its history being the
introduction of a reindeer antler, found attached to an upper surface of

the stalagmitic floor. It was, therefore, free from the objection urged
sometimes against Kent's Cavern, that, having been known from time
immemorial, and, up to 182 5, always open to all comers, it had, perhaps,

been"  ransacked         again and again.           to  be  a comparatively  very small
                        believed, and it proved,
       2. It was

cavern, so that its complete exploration was not likely to require a large
                    of        or of money.
expe"nIdtitwuriell  be  time  that the exploration  was placed under circumstances
                        seen

much more likely to command attention than any of those which had

preceded it. - It was to be carried on under the auspices of the Royal and
Geological Societies, by a Committee consisting of Mr. S. H. Beckles,
Mr. G. Busk, Rev. R. Everest, Dr. H. Falconer, Mr. Godwin-Austen,
Sir C. Lyell, Professor Owen, Dr. J. Percy, Mr. ]. Prestwich, Professor

(now Sir A. C.) Ramsay, and myself--all Fellows of the Geological
Society, and almost all of them of the Royal Society also.

    " It was impossible not to feel, however, that the mode of exploration
must be such as would not merely satisfy those actually engaged in the

work, but such as would command, for the results which might be

Iobtained, the acceptance of the scientific world generally. Hence

resolved to have nothing whatever to do with the "trial pits" here and
there, or with shafts to be sunk in selected places ; but, first, to examine
and remove the stalagmitic floor ; then, the entire bed immediately

below (if not of inconvenient depth) horizontally, throughout the entire
length of the cavern, or so far as practicable; this accomplished, to
proceed in like manner with the next lower bed; and so on until all

the deposits had been removed.
     " This method, uniformly followed, was preferable to any other,
because it would reveal the general stratigraphical order of the deposits
with the amount and direction of such `dip ' as they might have, as well
as any variations in the thickness of the beds ; it would afford the only
chance of securing all the fossils, and of thus ascertaining, not only the
different kinds of animals represented in the Cave, but also the ratios
which the numbers of individuals of the various species bore to one
another, as well as all peculiar or noteworthy collocations ; it would
76                                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.                         [CH. VII.

disclose the extent, character, and general features of the Cavern itself ;
it was undoubtedly the least expensive mode of exploration; and it
would render it almost impossible to refer bones or indications of human

existence   to wrong             beds, depths, or associations.    at the  end    of twelve
     " The  work was              begun in July, 1858, and closed

months, when the Cavern had practically been completely emptied;
an official report was printed in the Philosophical Transactions for
1873, and all the specimens have been handed over to the British

Museum.
   I"The
                                                                                  of this
Address *                                                                         of the
            paper on               the subject mentioned at the beginning
            was read               in September, 1858, during the meeting

Assoeiation at Leeds, when had the pleasure of stating that eight
flint tools had already been found in various parts of the Cavern, all
of them inosculating with bones of mammalia, at depths varying from
nine to forty-two inches in the Cave-earth, on which lay a sheet of
stalagmite from three to eight inches thick; and having within it and
    it relics of
on                lion, hyaena, bear,   mammoth, rhinoceros, and reindeer.
    "It soon       became evident       that the geological apathy previously
spoken of had been rather apparent than real. In fact, geologists
were found to have been not so much disinclined to entertain the
question of human antiquity, as to doubt the trustworthiness of the

evidence which had previously been offered to them on the subject.

It was felt, moreover, that the Brixham evidence made it worth while,
and indeed a duty, to re-examine that from Kent's Cavern, as well as
that said to have been met with in river-deposits in the valley of the

ISomme and elsewhere.

     " The first-fruits, believe, of this awakening, was a paper, by Mr.
Prestwich, read to the Royal Society, May 26, 1859, On the oeeurrenee
of Flint Implements, assoez'ated with the Remains of Animals ey' Extinct
Speties in beds of a late Geologieal Period in Frame at Amz'ens and
Ahheoille and in England at .HoxnaT This paper contains explicit
evidence that the Brixham Cavern had had no small share in disposing

its author to undertake the investigation, which added to his own
                                        rescued M. Boucher
ngeregaletcrte. put`aIttiowna,s  and    says Mr. Prestwich,   de Perthes   from undeserved
                                 not,'                                     myself witnessed
                                                             `until I had
                   under which these flint
the conditions                                 implements had              been found at
Brixham, that     I became fully impressed       with the validity          of the doubts

thrown upon the previously prevailing opinions with respect to such

Iremains in caves.'

     "Sir C. Lyell, too, in his Address to the Geological Section of the
British Association, at Aberdeen, in September, 1859, said, `The facts

recently   brought to light             during the systematic  minuvset,stigI attihoinn,k,asharevpeorptered
on by     Dr. Falconer, of               the Brixham Cave
pared you to admit that scepticism in regard to the cave-evidence in
favo"urItofitshepraonbtaiqbulyity  of man had previously
                                   unnecessary to quote      been pushed   to an  extreme.'§
                                                               further to  show    how very

    * " A recently-discovered Ossiferous Cavern, at Brixham, near Torquay,"       by W.

Pengelly.                                      p. 93.
    1' Phil. Trans. for 1860, pp. 277-317.

   T1 0p. 07., p. 280.

    § Report Brit. Assam, 1895; rans. Seets.,
18525--1859.] EVIDENCE OF THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN.  77

large a share the Exploration at Brixham had in impressing the scientific
world generally with the value and importance of the geological evidence
of man's antiquity. That impression, begun, as we have seen, in 1859,
has not only lasted to the present day, but has probably not yet

culminated. It has produced numerous volumes, crowds of papers,

countless articles in Reviews and Magazines, in various countries;
and perhaps, in order to show how very popular the subject became
almost immediately, it is only necessary to state that Sir C. Lyell's
great work on the `Antiquity of Man' was published in February, 1863,
the second edition appeared in the following April, and the third
followed in the succeeding November--three editions of a bulky scientific

work in less than ten months! A fourth edition was published in

May, 187 3.
     "Few, it may be presumed, can now doubt that those who before

1858 believed that our fathers had under-estimated human antiquity,
and fought for their belief, have at length obtained a victory."

      Scientific writers have borne generous and appreciative
testimony to the value of Pengelly's work at Brixham.

     In the Geological Magazine (No. 359, p. 238, May, 1894) he
is spoken of as "one of that small band of Geologists, who
assisted Falconer, Busk, Lyell, Prestwich, Lartet, Christy,

Rupert-Jones, Boyd-Dawkins, and a few others to place upon a
scientific basis, that inquiry into the evidence of Pre-historic

Man which was systematically commenced, in this country, by
the exploration of Brixham Cave in 1858. This work, which
was carried out, under the auspices of the Royal and Geological
Societies, by Mr. William Pengelly, of Torquay, yielded most

important results."
     Professor Boyd-Dawkins thus alludes to the Cave work :--

"The result of the exploration, established beyond all doubt
the existence of palzeolithic man in the Pleistocene age, and
caused the whole of the scientific world, to awake to the fact of
the vast antiquity of the human race. From this time Pengelly's
energies were mainly directed towards cave exploration." *

     In Natural Science for May, 1894, the following reference to
the same subject occurs. " On the shoulders of Mr. Pengelly fell
practically all the work of supervision ; but he had his reward, in
finding ample corroboration of his previous conclusions ; for

beneath the unbroken stalagmitic floor were brought to light
relics of human handiwork in such intimate association with the

remains of extinct mammalia, as to place their contemporaneity

beyond all cavil."

    It has been already mentioned that many scientific men were

                                          * Nature, April 5, 1894.
78  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [CI-r. VII.

unprepared for the results obtained by the Brixham exploration ;
and the conclusions arrived at were received with some appre

hension by the general public.

     Probably the outcry raised against Pengelly's geological
discoveries by the orthodox party of that day will appear

extraordinary to this generation, which has long ceased to be
disquieted by facts that are now so generally received. But
many, even of his own friends, were filled with misgivings by the
discoveries of science. Some of them endeavoured to reconcile

the old and new views, as he himself at first hoped to do; but
he soon found that all such attempts were unadvisable. He
saw that many of the facts brought to light by geology could
not, in the present state of knowledge, agree with the long
accepted interpretation of the account of Creation; and that

the various well-meaning endeavours to harmonize the two had
frequently only ended by making the discrepancies still more
evident. Indeed, he felt that some writers who attempted a
reconciliation did positive harm, either by their forced attempts
to adapt the language of the Old Testament to scientific facts,
even at the cost of rendering the Biblical language doubtful and
almost unmeaning ; or, oftener still, by giving, from a complete
ignorance of science, explanations which were utterly unphilo

sophical and unsound.

     His own feeling on the subject is expressed in the following
extract from a letter, written in answer to one of the many

correspondents (chiefly total strangers) who wrote to him regard

ing the views of geologists--". . . Geologists see no mode of
reconciling the commonly-received interpretation of the Mosaic

account of Creation with geological science. . . . For myself, I

am satisfied that Science can do nothing for the salvation of the
soul, and that the Bible is able, through God's blessing, to make
us wise unto salvation. . . "

      No doubts or difficulties were ever able to undermine his

faith as a Christian. But, although his religious convictions

were strong and intense, he was in many ways an advanced

thinker, and always tolerant of the views of opponents. His

position might be justly described by the following striking
words of Erasmus--" The sum of religion is peace, which can

only be when definitions are as few as possible, and opinion
is left free on many subjects. . . . Wait till the veil is removed

and we see God face to face."
[858-1859.]  PRESENTATION OF A TESTIMONIAL.                                              79

     The wider field of geological research which now opened
before Pengelly did not hinder him from pursuing his work, as
Honorary Secretary to the Torquay Natural History Society,
with his accustomed activity. After a course of twenty-three

Lectures, which he delivered before that Society during the
session of 1857--8, many of the members and his other friends
expressed their sense of the value of his scientific labours, by
presenting him, early in May 1858, through his friend Mr.
Sheppard, with a purse of 80 guineas. In response to this
substantial proof of regard, he expressed himself in the follow

ing terms :--

I"Whilst have supposed myself simply geologizing during the
winter now terminated, a note received during the last week, from my
Ivalued friend and                          Mr.
                                            and
really been at the
                           neighbour,                   Sthheapt pIarhda, veinfboermens   me that have
                           `diggings,'                                                   so very fortunate
Iaalmisngodhstttolayp;bepxrrbitelrulcaitaic,antttiboaennl`,iqeuveaemxrttorzrem.e'mee,blyeIIauvsctaeaiftlnuunal,abotlefaanrad`fnhfouiIgrgdhgteerruttsot'p--rmviscaeeoltureeoinndtuhktrehainebdlnelsui,eegtgsttetihntafgen;eitlsittnhhegeelf

first will, as presume it is intended, take to itself wings and fly away,
but the latter will long live in my recollection and my gratitude."

     Shortly afterwards he paid a hasty visit to London to see
Dr. Falconer, and writes home---

    "May, 1858.-- I. . . believe nothing occurred on my journey up

worthy of record. We reached Paddington at the time appointed,
                                                         of
nI agmoet lym, ys1e1l.f5,seatnddoownnthbey  suggestion  at   two   respectable             fellow-travellers,
                                            the 'bus,        the  Gloucester             Hotel, Piccadilly,

Ibut, alas! they had turned away forty applicants for beds before my

arrival, so started on my travels loaded with my luggage; one hotel
Iafter another was tried, but with a like result. At length, heartily tired,
whaepnplIiedproptoosetdhe   Police,         who, though      civil, could not help me,   and
                           that they        should lock      me up for the night, they   only

  laughed! Good fortune smiled on me at length, and something

I' before one got a bed, and on the whole a pretty comfortable one.
IThis morning
                           went to Falconer's, had a pleasant breakfast, but
Ifound that the Committee is to be held on Tuesday. Thence I went

to Iermyn Street Museum, where found all the authorities agree in
thinking my Cornish                                                as I think also, as
you are well aware.        Ispecimen an ichthyodorulite,          I am to dine with
                           ...              forgot to say that

Miss   Coutts next Thursday,                and after dinner to   accompany               her and
party  to hear Dickens read                                       promising              myself a
                                            his `Chimes.' I am

decided treat on the occasion. . . ."

     Whilst in London, Pengelly made the acquaintance of Dr.
Percy, of the School of Mines.
80            WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CH. VII.

                                     zllrs. Pengelly to her Mother.
     "August 28, 1858.--- . . . William is very much interested in
having made the acquaintance of Dr. Percy (of the School of Mines),
who is spending the autumn here; he is going out with him in his
yacht to-morrow. Charles Landseer is Dr. Percy's particular friend,
and he is expecting him and Dr. Hooker both down on a visit shortly.
W. had a letter yesterday from Dr. Falconer, who said he had just
heard from Sir Charles Lyell from Germany, saying he had been
shown there a fossil human skeleton, found in one of the geological
(supposed) prehuman periods; it is a puzzle. . . ."

                             Mrs. Pengelly to her Mother.

   I" September 8th.-- . . . had a very interesting call last week from

Dr. Falconer, Professor Ramsay, Dr. Percy, and Charles Landseer.

I extremely enjoyed it. They were all most interesting, and C.

Landseer very entertaining. They are all delighted with Torquay,
and think it is not half as well known as it deserves to be. . . ."

     During the British Association Meeting that autumn, at which
Pengelly read, amongst other papers, one upon the result of his
exploration of the Brixham Cavern, he writes to his wife--

    "Leeds, September, 1858.-- . . . The sections opened to-day, and
though the papers did not promise much, they have been on the
Iwfohreoslets.decLidaesdtlyniginhttereIstiantgt.ended             in a discussion on submerged
                                                       took part  lecture; it was about three
                                                          Owen's
Ihours long, too long decidedly, but truly excellent.
                                                                         have been

to see the Museum to-day, which is admirable. . . ."

                          To his Wife.

     "Leeds, September, 1858.---- . . . Your faithless husband has allowed
a post to pass without writing you, not, however, from choice. . .
My papers were both read, namely, on the Ichthyodorulite and on the
Trilobite. My views were fully confirmed on the first by Sir Philip
    .
             ."

                   a

                  I it,
Egerton, who spoke on and on the second by Salter, who spoke on
that. There was horticultural féte at Kirkstall Abbey, about three
miles from Leeds, which attended; the old Abbey
                                                                  ." is  fine ruin. .
    have greatly increased my circle of friends both scientific and   a
I

otherwise. .

                          To his Wife.

     "Leeds, September, 1858-- . . . have read my paper (on Brixham
Cavern) to crowded house, all the great geologists came in apparently.
Owen followed in very eulogistic strains, characterizing exploration of
    a
              a

                      I
                                I
the Cavern, as the only satisfactory and good attempt of the kind

that ever had been made.                               was very much complimented at the
close by sundry persons. Robert Chambers introduced himself, and
proposes having chat with me on the question. . .
1858--1859.]        MURCHISON, PERCY AND OTHERS.                                      81

                    TThe Rev. Canon H. B. ristram to Pengelly.

    " Castle Eden, Dar/1am, Ottooer 2, 18 58.-- . . . I did not at once
Ithank yOu for your kind trouble and interest in collecting and

forwarding to me the Devonian fossils, as was not sure of your
Leeds address. . . .              Do               take any interest in Tertiary fossils from
Malta, Spain, etc.?                    you      a   considerable number of fossil shells in
                                  I   got

those regions last winter, and should be very glad to send you any

that  " mI ighhatd  interest   you.
                    hoped     to be
                                      at  Leeds,   at the meeting,  and  had  almost  made

Iarrangements to do so, but was kept at home by work in my parish.

  was meditating a paper on the Sahara, but it must keep, D.V., till

next year. Perhaps                Aberdeen may     temI ptsawyouwittho  explore a kindred
geological period to              your Devonian.                        great interest the
notice of your paper before the Association."

                                  1111's. Pengelly to lzer Mot/zen

      " Ottooer 18, 1858.--- . . . Dr. Falconer is intensely interested
about the flint knives, and thinks he has discovered a larger implement,
Iby joining some of the pieces together--they are sent up to the British

Museum for the Savans to see. . . . enclose an autograph of Charles
              which Mrs. Percy gave me.             He has the care of the Royal
Landseer,     and it is said never hangs
Academy,                                           his own pictures well, which I
think is very nice of him. We spent a delightful evening with him at
the Percys', and had a good view of the splendid Comet, with Arcturus
in the middle of the tail. . . ."

     In addition to the exploration at Brixham, Pengelly found
time to visit other Devonshire caves, amongst them a small
cavern south of Berry Head, but no fossils of particular interest

were found there.

                                 Mrs. Pengelly to lzer jllot/zer.

     "Mare/2, 1859.--- . . . We had a very pleasant evening, though
disappointed of one of our friends; but Mr. Gosse and his son Edmund
(a nice boy),* Joseph ListerT and Arthur Lister, Miss Tuke, and others
came. The gentlemen had all been with William to the cavern. We
heard many interesting anecdotes about natural history, one story
seeming to call out half a dozen others. . . ."

                                  Mrs. Pengelly to her Mot/ref.

    I"April,                                                                   at William's
                                                                              between Miss
lecture of
                      1859.---    . . . To-day     had the pleasure
                    watching      Sir Roderick Murchison, as he sat
                                                and Mrs. Brown. He rather a heavy
Coutts (whose guest he
                                  is                                     is
                                           is)                                  is
looking man, and does not interest you so much as Falconer, Prestwich,
or Ansted; but he very pleasant and friendly. He going this

                              1'" Edmund Gosse, the critic and poet.
                                 Now Lord Lister, the eminent surgeon.
82               WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                     [CH. VII.

morning with William to Hope's Nose, and to-morrow to Brixham and
Berry Head. . . ."

     During the spring of this year Pengelly took a short geo

logical ramble, and made careful investigations amongst the
numerous Devonshire caves. Indeed, his labours in this direc

tion occupied so much time that one wonders how he was able

to carry on his teaching and lecturing simultaneously. His
geological journal abounds with descriptions of the caves, and
he gives a graphic picture of one which he visited on April

22, 1859--

    " . . . Left Plympton for T otnes by first train. Walked thence to
Buckfastleigh, to see the caverns said to be numerous there. It does

seem to be the very metropolis of caverns, at least, so far as Devonshire is
concerned. That which enjoyed the highest reputation was in a quarry,
termed ` Baker Pits,' on the hill on which the church stands ; indeed,

Iit is immediately adjacent to the churchyard. Understanding it to be

very large and intricate, judged it best to secure a guide, and, after a
good deal of trouble, was so fortunate as to find the cousin of the very
quarryman who discovered the cavern, or rather laid it open by quarry
ing, about twelve years ago. The discoverer is named William Wilcocks,
and my guide is named George Wilcocks, a lime-burner. We found it
a desolate affair; huge masses of r0ck, which had fallen from the roof,

lay in the wildest confusion, and strangely grotesque stalactites hung
from the roof and lined the sides. Desolation, adorned with the most
fantastic trappings, stared me in the face. The farthest point we reached,

and which seemed to be the end, measured four hundred and eleven feet
from the mouth. The mouth is itself a sort of funnel, twenty feet wide, and

at its inner  end is so small that a large man  would scarcely   pass  through.
              could judge, the cavern may be    said to consist        series of
So far as I                                                      of a

chambers connected by galleries, with many under vaultings and lateral

recesses. In some places the surfaces are much corroded, and in others
they are eroded. About half-way in from the entrance the musical
voice of running water was heard ; it proved to be a small stream, but
probably, in rainy seasons, would be considerably larger. No fossils

have been met with, but it does not appear that any search has been

made for them."

                                 Mrs. Pengelbl to her Mother.

    "April 29, 1859.-- . . . We have seen a good deal of Sir Roderick

Murchison this week, dining with him and a large party at Miss Coutts'
one evening; Lady Brownlow, Lord Churston, and many others were
there. The next day William took Sir Roderick to visit the cave, and
then joined Miss Coutts and party to lunch at Lord Churston's. The
day after, Miss Coutts and Sir Roderick and Lady Murchison came to
see the fossils--the latter is a most bright and pleasant old lady--and
they talked a great deal about Russia; they seem to have been much
1858--1859.] VISIT TO LONDON--CHARLES BABBAGE.     83

attached to the late Emperor?" Sir Roderick stayed to luncheon, and
then went for a geological ramble with William, round Lincombe Hill
to Babbacombe and Petit Tor. In the evening met all of them again
at a large party at Mr. Farrer's. Lady Brownlow, Mrs. Spring Rice,

etc., there. It was a most pleasant evening. . . . -To-morrow the

Murchisons leave. Sir Roderick was speaking to-day of poor Hugh
Miller; he says he completely brought on his illness and sad death by

anxiety and overwork, and was going to tell me more, but was called
away. . . ."

     These rambles were followed by a visit to London, where
Pengelly saw a good deal of Charles Babbage, who was much
interested in the caves.

                                            Pengelly ta lzis Wife.

    " London, May 20, 1859.-- . . . I attended the Royal Society Club
Idinner; met Barlow, Sabine, Percy, Sir James Ross, etc. Went then

to the Chemical, then to the Royal Society, where met Babbage, and
engaged to call on him shortly. Then with Percy to his house, just to
see Mrs. Percy ; all extremely kind, with kind inquiries after you. . . ."

                           Pengelly to his VVlfe.

    "London, May 24, 1859.-- . . . Yesterday I called on Babbage

before the meeting. He was most agreeable, breakfasting in his library,
which is really the den of a true literary man. He is greatly interested
in the revelations made, and questions suggested, by caverns. He is
preparing a paper which he thinks will at least show that Falconer's
Palermian Caves do not mmpel us to believe that man is of such very
high antiquity; his hypothesis is ingenious. . . . The Geographical
dinner was a brilliant afl'air; it was held in the Freemasons' Hall,

which was extremely well filled. . . . I sat next Rupert-Jones, and next
to him was Balmat, the famous Swiss guide. Sir Roderick was sup
                    Duke   of Wellington and    Lord Salisbury. The speakers
ported  Ibyletfhte  (soon  after ten) were Sir  T. Pasley, Sir John Pakington,
before

the Earl of Ripon, the Danish Minister, and Lord Carnarvon, who was
on his feet when I left. . . ."

     During his stay in London (on Friday, May 27, 1859),
Pengelly gave an evening lecture at the "Royal Institution,"
entitled " The Ossiferous Caverns and Fissures of Devonshire,"
in which he briefly explained his views on the probable origin
of caverns in general, and on the Windmill-hill Cave at Brixham
in particular. He concluded with some remarks as to the
remains of extinct animals, which were found there in conjunction
with "flint knives " of human manufacture, and the important

                                                    * Nicholas I.
S4                                   \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                [C H. VII.

bearing which these facts had on the antiquity of the human

race.
     The following month there are several letters from Pengelly

to his wife, who was away visiting.

     " Torquay, [mu 4, 1859.--- . . . Feeling that it is time to give you

Isome account of myself and my doings, put on my retrospective cap,
Iand take up my pen to furnish you with a record. Yesterday, started
soon after two, with Mr. Robertson and Mr. Carrol, for the Brixham
Cavern in the yacht Edil/i ,- we had a pleasant sail there and back, but
found nothing fres/z at the cavern, and very much that was stale in the
Brixham odours. . . . Ispent the evening letter-writing, and received
I I Ia letter from Mr. Bastard, granting me permission to see the cave at
YhiemalmthpetonO.restonthinbkonest,oldanydoualsyoesttehradtayI    had written Owen offering
                                                                had been informed of the
exhumation of more bones at Oreston. I started for Plymouth to-day
at 11.30, found Robert Were Fox and his daughters in the train at

INewton ; they gave me a pressing invitation to visit them at Falmouth.

At the ferry was joined by a Mr. Hodge, a good mineralogist, and
                                                         He was aware                 of the recent
a fair    geologist, residing at Plymouth.
` find,'  and was on his way to the quarry             as well as myself.               I purchased

all the bones. . ."

    "jam 5, r859.-- . . . This morning brought mea letter from Keep
winigth(haisflhinetadk-nwifoerkomnantheatsuthmemcitavoerfnt)h, eahnnilol,unsicxitnyg    the discovery  of gravel
                                                                                      feet above the   Cavern ;

also a letter from Faraday. . . ."

    I"fume 6l`lz.---- . . . Yesterday evening                   took a stroll through the
Abbey grounds and on to the new railroad,* just to keep up my
geography. What a superb burst Torbay and Torquay will be to

the stranger, who first beholds them from this station. I saw a
thousand things in the sections of the line, that cry aloud to be fully

worked out. . ."

    "fune 7111.---- . . . As I intended Iwent to Brixham yesterday, whence
I Ihave just returned.               have worked like a slave for a couple of hours,
Idigging at the greatest depths we have yet reached, was so fortunate

as to exhume a large bone. We have now four labourers at work, so

I Ias to make a finish before midsummer. You never saw so filthy a
wretch as was on emerging.           attracted great attention ! . . ."

    "lune 8, 1859.-- . . . Notwithstanding my visit to, and labour in
Ithetocoakvebrnoayt esatterd4a.3y0,  in order that no   grass   cmawivghehertrnesgroIthwegrouetn, doseorfmwmehyicgfhoeoetd,I
                                     for Livermead     Head,

Beekites, and was much interested in the
had never seen so much before. This morning I took an early
                                          poor Miss Phillips,
breakfast,   and at 8.15 went to assist  the ` Rule of Three,'                        by giving her
a lesson    in the art and mystery of                                                 which she is

                                     ` Then being made.
w it.""om-.-  _ v, w--vw--W4l' ,mhv,-wk,,maa»4-ww.r_m-An-..»-_."_".,a-v ,4. ,_.,' -a'.`1.'~.

l858--1859.]     TUTOR TO THE RUSSIAN PRINCES.                                          . 85

Isuddenly called upon to teach, but which she has never learned, poor
thing!        did my best for her, but it is sad to think of any one under
taking to teach a thing of which they really have no knowledge. On
I Imy way to her, got your nice letter, for which many thanks.
                                                                                        saw

the gravel at the top of the hill at Brixham yesterday, and the flint
                       in it.        It is perhaps
Keeping    had  found  by no                                   no more than an accidental
fracture,  but                       means sure.               There are no indications of
                I am

bones, but the   gravel is a. great fact, and        jumps     I  quite   in harmony with
my conclusions                        the origin of  what          call  the `Berry Head
Terrace.' . . .  Irebsepgeacntintgo  put my library
                                                     in order; nothing having been

Idone since we left, it is not by any means finished, but I- have done
a good stroke there.   then went to the Infirmary meeting, where and

when a new house surgeon was appointed. Then home again at the
library. Then did some gardening. . . ."

    "lune 9!/l.---- . . . I have been at the library again all the after

noon; no order visible yet. . . ."

     Amongst Pengelly's              IpLu;pitlsheateltdheisr,  period  were two   nephews
of the Czar, Alexander                                         Prince  Nicholas,  who was

appointed by the Czar, in 186I, inspector of all the mines in his

dominions, said, when leaving, "I shall often think of Mr.

Pengelly."

I"fune 10, 1859.--- . . .                    called on Colonel Rehbinder, and

engaged to read six hours weekly with the two Russian princes.*
I have been to Barton this afternoon getting fossils for Oxford. At
Barton a lime-burner took me to his cottage, to see `such a specimen,'

and indeed it is a good thing. `Well,' said I, ` how much do you want
for it?' `Why, sir, if you waz a downright regalar gentleman, and
had a got your thousands upon thousands every year, hang me if
Iyou should ha'n for less nor half a crown, but since 'tes as 'tes, you
may ha'n for a shilling;' and for a shilling obtained                    ..it.
                                                                              a

                                                                                    ."
   "fune 12, I859.-- . . Though have just sent ofi~ budget, that
                 a                           ` ]. Ishould not begin another. Last
                              .                I

                                          .               is
does not seem any reason why                                                      have just
evening had short walk with Lister, always treat.
   I                                                              Ia     I
       I
read the first chapter in Bunsen's Signs of the Times,' and have been
intensely interested. . . The library                          finished, and looks quite
inviting. The Oxford fossils are not yet gone; am really working
hard about them, going all the world over for them. They ought to
be of prime quality, remembering who
                                                   is          the donor and who the a'onee.

...     took boat at three for the Oreston, and never had                               finer
                                                                                        a
geological day.  I    came back richly laden with fine specimens. .                           ."

     "fuzz: I4!lz.--   . . . Took 'bus to Brixham, went to                    the cavern,
saw all right there,   and then off to Mudstone to seek fossils               for Oxford;

    have enjoyed the   day.                  have   just written to      R.   WA.scFeondxi'nogf
Falmouth, respecting                               of the Perihelion,    and
I
                                  I

                       the-Longitude

                       * Nephews of the Czar Alexander II.
86 ,                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                           [CI-I. VII.

Nodes of the Planets, a subject on which we have frequently con

versed. . . ."

     "fune 15, 1859.-- . . . This morning brought me three letters,
one from you, one from Prestwich, and one from Vincent of the Royal
Institution. That from Prestwich, contained the information that

Falconer is home. . . . I started off in proper time for the rush on
the Russian princes. I saw them in the Apsley grounds shooting, with
Mr. Stewart the surgeon. The boys soon came to me, and I began
            Iyfoeultnginerc,linaednicIemcighhatttyhavleittklenowfenllohwo, w
with   the                                                                    so very chatty, indeed,
that  had                                                                     many pairs of stockings

I Ihe had, or anything else in his power to communicate, but of course
checked his loquacity.         only remember that his mother is expected
here next month. The elder boy is equally agreeable, but less chatty.
The engagement promises to be very pleasant,
simple. -The Atlmzwum is very interesting this                                twheeyek;areI  thoroughly
                                                                                             have been
much pleased with an abstract of a paper read before the Society of
Antiquaries, `On the occurrence of Flint Implements in undisturbed
beds of Gravel, Sand, and Clay (such as are known to Geologists
under the name of Drift) in several L0calities, both on the Continent
and in this Country.' . . ."

      "fzme 18tfi.---    . ..  I was so   exI trweamseluyp       negligent yesterday,                that I
did not  write    y;ouI                                            early gardening, or
cutting  laurels         even  one line.                                                             rather
                         have
                               made such a slaughter amongst them, all                               round

the garden. Whilst thus engaged, came there a note from Mrs. Yorke,*

Istating that she had returned, and inviting me to accompany her
on the water in the afternoon.            wrote a note accepting the invita

Ition, and fixing two o'clock as the starting hour, and stipulated to
be on shore again at six, as              had previously                      reignhgtagteimd e,toI  go for   a
row with Mrs. Mallock and her                                                                         went   to
                                          party. At the
the Russian princes; the younger is not very industrious, the elder, I
         is,
                    is

                                               I

                                                                                              is

                                                               I
                                                                          I
think, and desirous of distinction.                              find that he sixteen, and

his brother twelve. We get on very nicely. Soon after two, met
Mrs. Yorke, on the quay, and we started across the bay.
                                                                                                     landed at

Brixham, in order to see how they were going on at the cavern; and
then walking on to Mudstone to rejoin the yacht, Mrs. Yorke came in
the punt for me, and we then examined that glorious coast, on the
south of Berry Head, and went into the great cavern.
                                                                              I;        do not know
                                                                                     I
when have enjoyed a thing so very, very much but, 10 and behold,
       II

                           ."

                          I
                                                         ;
                                                             is
half-past five had come, and'we were there still!                             was at once landed

to go again to the cavern. Mrs. Yorke returned to the yacht, to pick
me up once more at Brixham the wind was against us, and conse
quently we reached Torquay at eight instead of six. So far from
                                                                                 believe him truly
Keeping being glad that his time                                 almost up,   I

sorry.v     have copied my list of the Devonshire Cave Fossil Mammalia

for]. Lister. . .

    "june 21st.----      . . . went to Teignmouth                             by 10.10       train this
                         the ferry, and walked under                          the cliff,     almost to
morning, crossed
                                   * A geological pupil.
1858--1859.] DR. FALCONER AND THE PALERMO CAVES.                                                 87

Maidencombe, and then returned to Teignmouth, carefully noting the
prominent facts connected with the conglomerates; in fact it may with
as much propriety be called Breca'a as conglomerate. Many of the

stones   aI reknaoswtonoisfhninoglyparaenngtulraorck;  and yet they have       probably travelled
far, as                                                                         could have been
                                                       near,   whence   they   you. ` What was
derived. Thereby hangs a puzzle,                              need not   tell
the agent of transportation? ' . . ."                  as I

     "fune 22,       I1859.--- . . .  arranged some                     fossils, and      reached
Apsley House                                                            On arriving
                as appointed at three o'clock.                                            there I

found two carriages,   into one of which the                  apnrdinceI s,goDt.r.  Tillner  (who
speaks English, and    is probably a German),                                       In the   other

carriage were Colonel Rehbinder and Professor Bauer. We were

about an hour in the cave, and saw it pretty thoroughly, and the whole
              pleased. We then   parnodceeIdebdecainmethveesryamcehaotrtdye;r
party were    Cove. Dr. Tillner                                                     to    the cave
at Ansty's                                                                          he    tells me

that it is most likely they will remain here all the coming winter.
From Ansty's Cove we took different routes. The colonel and pro

fessor returning directly home, whilst our carriage drove round to drop
me at my own door. . . . The last Alfie/mum is worth looking at.
The first article is `Recollections,' by Rogers, and is charming; the

Isecond on `Hallucinations,' almost fearful, and fascinating; then a

somewhat interesting notice of books on America, but am not going
on seriatim (absurd aflectation, speak English like a man or rather
wrile it). There is an interesting letter, by Wright the antiquary, on
the papers by Prestwich and Evans on their Flint Implements in the
Drift. in the list of meetings for the ensuing week there is an ` Extra
ordinarv Meeting of the Geological Society at 8 pm. on Wednesday
(yesterday), to hear ` Further Observations on the occurrence of Human
Art in the Bone Breccia in the Caves near Palermo,' by Dr. Falconer,
and `Reports on the Exploration of the Cave at Brixham,' by Dr.
Falconer, also `On Flint Implements recently obtained from the
Gravel near Amiens,' by Mr. Flower. Flints are undoubtedly to the

fore. . . ."

Iaaatmnda"nctfoyhunenrcraeeetreni,2se6dt,hneo1a8tep5nrl9ode.sa--psoetf.ct.th.Ieth.LsahitsTotheIoerkssrh'eahltailsanradrsinesaenewcnehidt.ihmhtoJe.armegJ.aohisnLat,issttfhceoionrrmgssteoh,,misseoseuvftpaiemprnoeianssega;,It
least. And
              the                                                                    is          and
Ishorter and  still                                                                 feel          am
                     longest day, too, has been               with us,         and        gone,
                     shortening ones will soon                be here.                    that
                                                                                 I
the same person that some years ago wished Time would be less tardy
in his movements; one might almost question one's own identity, for
Inow would rather that he would `reserve his flight,' that is to say, as
I Ifar as am concerned, not" society.                         do not believe in `Good Old
ITimes,' taking `Old'
                       in  tIhebemgionsttolimseietedlandsiganhifiecaadt,iobnu, t   or any other.
But enough of this. .                                                             it may be mist
                       ..
                                                                                  that I may see
merely; but will confess to a hope that it is land, and
you home this week. I hope you will remain until Saturday, if you
Idesire to do so, or your mother wishes it ; nevertheless, will now say,
I Iand think this is the first time have allowed you to infer so much,
88                                WILLIAM PENGELLY.                             [CII- VII.

that it   is  sadly         dull   here without   you. I am pleased with Alfred's
letter?"      think         the   journey is not
           I                                      likely to be thrown away on him;
he clearly has a decided taste for Natural History, and will of necessity
                            . . . This
love  IthteellcoyuonutryI.  had found   afternoon _I  wrote       Salter and Prestwich.
Did                                     a remarkable   fossil
Ivery much of the character of the Polperro                       at Mudstone? It is
                                                                              alias fish;
much more definite in outline, than               have            sponges,                       but
                                                                  previously    Iseen.           am

most sceptical as to its being a sponge. Gosse called here and had a

chat this afternoon. . . ."

     In one of his letters at the conclusion of the Brixham Cavern
exploration he writes :--

    "fune 27, 1859.-- . . . We closed our labours at the cavern on
, Saturday evening last, Philp having allowed us to work a day and a
half beyond the hour to which we were legally entitled. The workmen
are all discharged, the key is returned to Philp, all the specimens not
Ialready in town, are at my house. . . . I felt a little sorry to give up
Ithe cavern.  have spent a good         many hours                there  since  last March,
when first visited it. . . "

    The Grand Duchess Marie, sister of Alexander II. of Russia,

daughter of the Emperor Nicholas and widow of the Duke
of Leuchtenberg, was at Torquay with her family in August
of this year.
                                        a
                                                             1.,
                                  Mrs. ngel/y 10 her Mat/ma

     "August 17, 1859.-- . . . This morning we had two hours' visit
from the Russian Princess Eugenie, the Countess Tolstoi, and one of the
tutors. We were extremely pleased with them all. The Princess not
                                                                         a
                                                                                             is

pretty, rather small features, very good forehead, and evidently very
intelligent, and extremely interested in what William told her. They
looked at the corals and fossils, etc., which she seemed to understand

thoroughly, and asked leave to come again and bring the younger

ones, who were much disappointed at not coming with them this
                            had good deal of conversation with the Countess
morning. . .                      a
          ;

                 .I
Tolstoi she told me the eldest princess was on a visit to the Queen
at Osborne with her mother the Grand Duchess, and that they were
`Igreatly pleased with the Isle of Wight. She said the young princes
and princesses are so happy here.                 said,           suppose on account of
                                        I

                                                             `
being so near the sea.' `Oh no,' she said, `they have palace on
                                                                  is
                                                                                a

                                                                                              .

                                                                                               ."
the seashore, very magnificent one; but they enjoy being here and
          a
                   a
living in plain simple way.' The Grand Duchess telegraphed to the
Emperor the other day after her arrival here, This Paradise.'

                                 Mrs. Pengel/y to Im- Mot/zen.

     " . . William went yesterday to Newton, with the Russian party,
to a little picnic in the Bradley Woods valley; they seemed to enjoy

                                       * His son by his first marriage.
1853--1559-1            BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT ABERDEEN.        89

Iit very much, and the little princess kept saying, `Oh, it is so nice!

  am so happy!' She had a hammer which the tutor had bought for
                                       ` Oh!'
hI emr,uasnt d   which  soon broke.  like Mr.  she said, `this  is too fine, too pretty;
                have a   large one             Pengelly's.'     William says she is a

witch, for he never found so many good fossils before. Like so many
of his pupils, she enjoys her                                   is much attached to
him; Countess Tolstoi says            lessons greatly, and
                                     she keeps running to       the window to see if

he is coming. One day he had a very pleasant interview with the
`IGrand Duchess. The Princess Eugenie said the other day after
leaving us,             would rather have Mr. Pengelly's fossils than all my

diamonds. . ."

     During September, the British Association met at Aberdeen.

Pengelly was now beginning to take a prominent and useful part
in the proceedings of Section " C" ; and the meeting was espe
cially noteworthy to him, as the question of the antiquity of man

was warmly debated.

                         Mrs. Pengelly 10 lzer Moi/Mr.

      "September. . . .  William is   very much occupied        in Iprheapvaerindgrawhins
paper for the British    Association   meeting at Aberdeen.
                                       went on Friday to        see the Grand
three large diagrams      for it. I
Duchess, by invitation, and we were introduced to the Princess Mary,

who     has     now arrived here,    and is very   nice.    We paid a most pleasant
visit,  but                          the Princess  is not  at all well, she is certainly
                I am sorry to say
a most interesting girl. The Countess gave a charming present to
little Lydia, who went with me by particular invitation, and of whom

they made a great pet. . . . The Channel Fleet are here now, fourteen
of those splendid vessels including the ` Royal Albert.' . . ."

                                       Pengelly to his Wife.
     "Aberdeen, S¢tember 16, 1859.--~ . . . The meeting is a very large
one. There are said to be two thousand seven hundred persons ; if so,
it surpasses Dublin, and ranks as one of the largest meetings. This, no

doubt, is partly owing to the prince ;* and truly he does seem to be

Ivery amiable and intellectual. . . . Many of my old friends are here,

and all extremely cordial. Peach and fraternize charmingly. Lyell's
introductory address was a masterpiece of ability and frankness, mainly

Ion the question of human chronology. The papers in our Section, zle.

Geology--the only one attended--were good, and drew forth much
valuable discussion. After the meeting Peach took me to call on
Mrs. Hugh Miller. Sir W. jardine, with his two daughters, and
Symonds of Pendock, entered with us, so that she had a sort of leae'e.
By some mistake at the soirée, the doors were not opened until 8.45
instead of 7.15 as was expected; the result was an assembly of about
two thousand persons in the street waiting to enter, and about as

                                "` Prince Albert was President that year.
90                                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                [ea vn.

many more to see them, with a strong body of police to keep
order. . . ."

                                            T0 the Same.

    I"Aberdeen, September 17, r859.--             . . . Yesterday was a good day
                                                  " C." The fourth paper was by
here ; speak as a member of Section
       Dr. Anderson (author
Rev.   Course of Creation'),                of a  book in my library, under the title of
` The                                       ` On  Human Remains in Superficial Drift,'

in which he attacked all the evidence which has recently been produced
of ` Man amongst the Mammoths,' and a very great deal which no one

ever regarded as bearing on the question. After wading through a
great amount of rubbish, he boldly attempted to castigate Lyell for his
opening address; next he ridiculed Horner's argument of the pottery, etc.,
Iin the silt of the Nile. (Lady Lyell was within a couple of yards of him.

  did feel for her, more especially as she is so sweet and charming, to

be thus compelled to witness a bungler, mangling both her husband and
father.) Then he ran off to Germany to cudgel Bunsen, then back
again, pitched me into Brixham Cave, and did his best to bury the Cave

and myself in ridicule, and finally he gave us a yard or two of bad pulpit.
There was a considerable amount of orthodoxy in the room, and he got
a very undue share of applause. And now far contra. Lyell handled

him as a gentleman and a philosopher alone can do it. Next Phillips,
having rubbed his hands in oil, smoothed him down, but in such a way
as to scarify him; then Ramsay seized him by the button-hole, and
informed him of a
                           fact or two connected          with        caverns, and finally
handed him over to                                        him        by the collar, dragged
                           me, upon which I seized
him into Brixham Cave, and showed him its facts and their whereabouts.

IThen came Symonds" and pulpited him. A few papers followed, and

then read my paper, which was well received. . . . Last night Sir
Roderick delivered a lecture on the Geology of the North of Scotland----

a very able performance--after which a deputation from the Royal
Society of Edinburgh was introduced by the Chairman, and a gold
medal from the body they represent was presented by them to Sir
Roderick. . . ."

                                            Pengellj/ to lair Wi 6.

    "Aberdeen, Srpz`ember, r895.-- . . . This evening I tookaramble to
Old Aberdeen, a distance of fully two miles; it seems a very decaying
oI ldacpcloamcep,anainedd                   striking contrast to the New Town. Yesterday
                           a great  and     to tea with a person who has declined business,
                            the
                                         s

having made a fortune. It was a very stiff affair.                   has realized a

good   Iuccpoomnotpueerntdemnecisnytnalobityyp.trroaodBfee,ofathninadttealhlseecnittc,emoamryi,utsItprwopovoueslssdesthsraattthraetdrraedbeeabsaiolnimtyien;tmimabetuest
that
dries

of a Union Workhouse, with such powers as God has given me, than be
in the condition of Mr.                     (who boasted of having no interest in science

of any kind) for all the wealth that has eVer been represented by all the
ledgers in existence. . . ."

                           * Rev. W. S. Symonds, Rector of Pendock.
1858-1859.]  BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT ABERDEEN.                                               9I

                                             Pengelly to Iii: Wife.

    I"Aberdeen, September 19, 18 59.--                    ...    You are   anxious to know
                                                                 and been  cordially received
whom have seen. Well, then, 1 have                        seen,

by, Murchison, Lyell, Owen, Phillips, General Portlock, Peach, Sorby,
Ramsay, H0pkins, and all
                                             the stone-breaking    fraternity. Whether they
have done wisely or not, I                   will not say, but   they fully recognize me as

a descendant of Thor, like themselves. . ."

                                             Pengelly to Iii: Wife.

a  gre" aBt rditaisyhinASsescoteioianlion",    Aberdeen,  Sebz`ember  20, 1859.--Yesterday  was
                                                          Committee     Room Lyell showed   us a
                                             C." In the

green stone instrument which had been given him in Aberdeen, during

the present meeting, by a gentleman who five years ago saw a savage

use it in Australia for the purpose of opening a tree. Allowance being
made for the difference of material, it was so precisely like the flint
knives found in the drift at Abbeville, that the most sceptical must
admit the latter to be of human origin. Sir Charles also stated that in

the recent drainage of the Haarlem lake no human bones had been
found, though history assures us that positively thousands of bodies
have fallen into it in the course of centuries. In the Section, Moore of

Bath read a valuable paper on Brachiopoda, which drew an eulogy from

Owen. A letter from Dr. Dawson to Sir Charles Lyell, stating that an

air-breathing mollusk had been found in the carboniferous rocks of the
South Joggings of Nova Scotia--a valuable fact, no such thing being
previously known to occur below the Cainozoic rocks. Then came a

great discussion between Nicol and Murchison, supported by Ramsay,
on the rocks of the North-west Highlands--a highly important, though
local, subject. Then a great series of papers on the Stagonolepis of
Elgin, Huxley showing it to be a reptile of high order, and the other
geologists showing that there is reason to believe the rock in which it

Iwas found is .Dewnian. In the evening I dined with the ` Red Lions;'

a most splendid time, Owen being Lion-in-chief. After this went to
a lecture by Dr. Robinson of Armagh on Electricity."

                                             Pengeliy to his Wife.
      "Aberdeen, September zrst.-- . . . We had a capital day yesterday.
Sedgwick opened in his own style, with a paper on the Lake district.
Then came Rogers, on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, producing some
new and important facts, and a monstrous hypothesis. The other

papers were of less interest, but excellent. At the soirée, Anderson
and I had a somewhat long and animated discussion on the flint knives.
He informs me that Professor Macdonald is to lecture on `Man'
to-night (Wednesday), and is intending to `pound me to dust.' . . ."

     Pengelly was included among the members of the associa
tion, who, during the progress of the Aberdeen meeting, were
honoured by an invitation to Balmoral. Unfortunately the
weather on the day of the visit turned out wet and stormy. As
92                                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                    [Cm VII.

several accounts of the expedition have already been recorded

in other Memoirs, and as her Majesty has also mentioned                  it,

in that part of her journal which has been given to the public,                `

any further account of                               unnecessary.
                                    it
    Before leaving Scotland he received kind and pressingit
                                                 is                a
invitation from Sir George Sinclair to stay at Thurso Castle,
                                                                      ;
which time would not permit him to accept this was the more

disappointing as prevented his making the acquaintance of

Robert Dick of Thurso, who was already attracting the attention

of geologists, as an active and successful worker.

    Greatly as he enjoyed meeting scientific friends, Pengelly

always looked forward eagerly to a return to his family and his

quiet home at Torquay. His son Alfred was now old enough

to accompany him on some geological expeditions, and was

already distinguished by love of Natural History, and great
                                    a

success in athletic sports and other open-air amusements. Mary

Anne (the only remaining daughter of his first marriage) had
died during the year, tenderly nursed to the last by her step

mother, to whom she was much attached.

     Mrs. Pengelly had now a little daughter of her own, named
Lydia, but generally called " Trottie " in her father's letters.

    Late in the autumn of 1859, at public dinner in Torquay,
                                                     a

                                                                     it
in response to an unanimous call for a speech, Pengelly pointed

out that was rather unwise to couple his name so frequently
with the toast of " Prosperity to Torquay," lest should become
    it

                              a
an established custom for him to respond to it. Speaking of

the attractions of the place, he recommended as an addition

"the establishment of County Museum of Natural History in

this town, which held out greater inducements than either

Plymouth or Exeter. The district was rich in natural history.

A large number of visitors came here in the winter for their

health's sake and those visitors would be very thankful to the
a

                                 ;
inhabitants, for providing the means of spending their time in

   way not injurious, but beneficial to body and mind. The
intellectual prosperity of the town must be looked to; and

geology, as an intellectual research, was very interesting." He

concluded by strongly advocating the claims of the Natural

History Society, the Mechanics' Institute, and the Working

Men's Society.
                             (93)

                      C HAPTER VII I.

LECTURES AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION, AND PAPERS READ
                   BEFORE THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

                      1860 To NOVEMBER, 1861.

IN 1860, Pengelly completed the formation of a fine collection
of Devonian fossils, from the counties of Devon and Cornwall,
which was presented in that year, by the Baroness Burdett
Coutts, to the New Museum of the University of Oxford, in
connection with the foundation of a geological scholarship. The
fossils are known as "The Pengelly Collection," as indicated
by the following regulation passed in a Congregation of the
University of Oxford on February 16, I860 :---" The collection
of Devonian fossils presented by A. Burdett Coutts shall be
named `The Pengelly Collection,' in honour of the gentleman

whose scientific knowledge has enabled the foundress to make

the collection."

2111's. Penger to leer M0111".

     "February 17th.-- . . . Much enjoyed the evening on Thursday
at Miss Coutts' to meet Archdeacon Mackenzie, the new Bishop for
Central Africa (sent
Cambridge), and also  out    by the   special fund raised  at Oxford and
                        the   Bishop                       wife, and many
                                       of Derry and his
others. Miss Coutts has lent us the printed regulations from Oxford,
in relation to the Burdett-Coutts Scholarship, to read. William's collec
tion of fossils, which he has made to be presented to the University,
is by her wish to be called `The Pengelly Collection.' Have y0u
seen the very appreciative notices of it in the Times, and other
papers? Dr. Falconer told me of them to-day, and seemed much
pleased. William is reading Myers's Sermons to Miss Coutts, Mrs.
Brown, and Rajah Brooke, and they are greatly interested, the latter

says he shall get them. Lady Charles Wellesley is staying there now,
and we like her very much. . . ."

     Princess Mary of the Netherlands had now joined the ranks
of Pengelly's pupils, and proved both agreeable and intelligent.
94                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [CH. VIII.

    [ll/u". Pengelly I0 fier Mot/zer.

   I"Mare/z I7, 1860.-- . . . We spent an interesting evening with Sir

John Bowring at Mr. Beasley's. Sir John looks much older than ex
pected--a keen, thin, and intellectual, worn face, with great animation.

He is a capital talker and full of information. We talked of my old
friends, the Ashworths ; he says they were for some time at his house

at Shanghai, but are now in London. Sir John Kennaway was there
also, and we were invited to meet them the next evening at Mr.
Vivian's, but had engaged to go to Miss Coutts'. . . . William has
been, with the Prince and Princess of the Netherlands and the

Russian Princes, to the Cavern; he is much pleased with the two
latter, especially Nicholas the elder, who is reading'Dr. Kane's Arctic
Travels with him with great interest. They are coming to us one
evening to look through the telescope. We had a long visit last week
from Lord and Lady             He prides himself on having the best
collection of marbles, I believe, in England; but some of the party
appeared amusingly ignorant on some points, inquiring if our corals,
etc., were Antediluvian! . ."

    At this time Pengelly also was actively engaged in a
systematic examination of the deposits at Bovey. Sir Charles
Lyell considered the work of great importance, and on its
conclusion induced him to communicate a paper, entitled "The

Lignites and Clays of Bovey Tracey," to the Royal Society.*
     This work was supplemented by Dr. Oswald Heer's account

of " The Fossil Flora of Bovey Tracey." The essays were re
printed, with a preface, as a separate volume, in 1863, with a

dedication addressed to the Baroness Burdett Coutts, who had

generously undertaken the expenses of the publication. Mr.
Starkie Gardner's subsequent studies of the fossil flora of Bovey

Tracey, have modified opinions respecting the origin and age of
the deposits, and some doubt has been thrown on Heer's con
clusions; but Pengelly's work is still considered to be of great

scientific value.

                             M's. Pengelly t0 lzer Mather.
     "April7t/L-- . . . William is greatly interested in going about with
Sir Charles Lyell, yesterday and to-day. It happened rather nicely, as
he is taking a holiday just now, for a few days ; so he was quite at
liberty to go with him, and Sir Charles seemed intensely interested
in the raised beach at Hope's Nose, etc--had his note-book in his
hand the whole time, and fully endorses William's views on the geology
of this neighbourhood, which is entirely new to him. To-day they
are going to Brixham, Berry Head, etc. Last night we had a nice
long call from Robert Were Fox of Falmouth, who is taking his

                             * P/u'l. Trans. Ray. 506., vol. clii. (1862), p. 1019.
[860--1861.] SIR C. -LYELL ON THE GEOLOGY OF TORQUAY. 95

daughter Anna Maria away for a little tour to recruit. He says his
daughter Caroline is too ill to accompany them. They are both
nearly laid by with doing so much for the `Navvies,' establishing
Reading Rooms, etc., for them."

                     Sir Clzarler Lyell to Pengelly.

    "April 8, 1860.-- . . . Dr. Falconer leaves with me by the ten

o'clock train to-morrow, for Newton, to go thence, and do what we
can in the Bovey Coal-Field.
     "He asked me to ask you for a note to Miss (CookeP), the

daughter of the late collector of fossil leaves of the Bovey Coal--

also    fobrutanIy  tihnsintrkuctIionusndeyrsotuoodmayyouhavtehatto   give us,  as  to   points to
visit;                                                               we were    to  go   to Bovey

Trac"eyT.he problem to be solved at Torquay is not only the relative age

of three deposits--
I"1. The cave`deposits, including Kent's Hole with Maelzaimdus,
an oldish form? and Hypopotamus? which Owen,                                        believe, says
came from Kent's Hole.
"            The raised beach.
"        2.  The submerged forest,     with  Elep/zas primigenius;                       the  tooth
         3.
dredged up from it having, says Falconer, rather the form of the
more modern varieties of the Siberian mammoth.
"Not only have we to correlate all these three, but to get them

into"""cor32m... pEREalrareriipsasohtenaidcnstba-bseoeaftdco,Fhr,tehBwnerciiitrghhhatggroerenac.newintietth,Eslhnefoeiynulblersasdapfeenrzped'otmsriidogtsilealenmndiuees[tage.rrra--BnPritiageghhptaoembnb. lesn. ear
                          -
Selsea.                      Elep/zas  antiquus  and                 thirty     species    _
     " Marine mud,   with
                                                                                         of marine

shells.
"The granite pebbles of the raised beach, N o. 2, were derived from
the older bed of glacial period, No. 3, of Sussex Coast.
     "No. 4, a prae-glacial deposit, with shells not like recent British
                                                                     '
fauna. . . .
"Has Mr. Battersby any of the fossils of the Hope's Nose beach?

and has he identified the Cardium, the large Cardium, with the long

one of your bay? or who has given a list?"

                             Mfr. Pengelly to her Mot/zen

    "April I3, 1860.-- . . . We have had such a pleasant visit from
the Princess Mary of the Netherlands, who is a pupil of William's now,

and a most agreeable one; she is about eighteen, an extremely simple
open-hearted girl. To-day we have had a visit of two hours from Miss
Coutts and her party, and William is gone there to dine to-night. . . .
The last time we went the Prince and Princess W. were there, Sir
Charles and Lady Lyell, etc. . . . The Prince and Princess of the
Netherlands are returning home. Princess Mary and Mademoiselle
von Doorn often walk down to town to meet William, when he is on
   96                                 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                 [CPL VIII.

   his way to give his lesson there, though it is before eight in the
   morning. . . ."

                                        1111's. Pang-ally to lzer Mot/zen

       "April 21st.-- . . . Had a delightful evening at Miss Coutts',

   meeting Baron and Baroness Hoenick, Rajah Brooke, Dr. Falconer,
   etc. Sir Charles Lyell and Dr. Falconer have set their minds on
   William's working somewhat in the Bovey coal-beds, which he himself
   has long been anxious to do--they contain so many plants new to
   science. One evening lately we spent at Mrs. St. John's (Sir Joshua
   Reynolds' great-niece), with a very pleasant party. She has a good
   painting by Sir Joshua. . . . Sir Charles Lyell has left,- he has sent
   William a geological map by Murchison. We have Murchison's
   `Siluria,' which he sent us himself last year, with a kind letter of
   appreciation respecting William's geological work. . . ."

                                Sir Charles Lyer t0 Pengelly.

       "May 7, 1860.-- . . . I am very glad of the prospect of our

   knowing something of the Bovey coal-plants. It is almost a reproach
                                      they have been so little explored, as they
'  to English geology that            of the Tertiary period to which they belong.  are
   perhaps the only fossils
                                                                                      I
   shall be glad to hear that Keeping's services are retained.
        " All Barrandés' grand discoveries in Bohemia, and splendid collec~
   tion of unique Silurian and pre-Silurian fossils, were made by opening

   quarries expressly for his geological researches.
       "In this case the old pits are flooded, and whether they (the pro
              wIillampumnpot    out the   water again seemed doubtful.
   prietors)                      afraid  that Miss Coutts will not be  rewarded    by

        "But

   bringing to light at least so much of the ancient flora as will enable
   Heer of Zurich to settle the age of the formation relatively to the other
   lignite and brown-coal deposits of the Continent.
        "The only Miocene plants discovered in the British Isles we owe
   to the Duke of Argyll's exertions in Mull.

       " I am going to beg you to send me any corrections you can suggest

   for my ` Manual,' fifth edition, confining yourself at present to the first
   Ipart (say up to p. 235), or any of the earlier pages, as the last half may

   be attended to some time hence. Besides positive mistakes, shall be
   glad of any hints and suggestions made freely, which your knowledge of
   the manner in which beginners are struck with certain passages may

   enab"leDry.oFuatlocosneenrd   us.  depend  on a large audience  in Burlington House
                                may
   when he reads his paper on the Welsh Caves. . ."

                                    Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Mot/tar.
        "May 24, r860.-- . . . William left for London yesterday; he is
   going to stay with Dr. Skey, a very nice old gentleman of eighty-six,
   who has been spending the winter here. The little trip to Cornwall with

   Miss Coutts, Sir J. K. Shuttleworth, and Sir James Brooke,' he enjoyed
                                                        * Rajah of Sarawak.
1860--1861.] BOVEY TRACEY FOSSILS--BABBAGE'S WORKSHOP. 97

exceedingly. To-morrow night he lectures at the Royal Institution on
Devonian fossils, in reference to the Oxford scholarship. On his return
home he will be much occupied, using all his spare time in examining
the coal deposit of Bovey Tracey, towards the exploration of which
Miss Coutts has contributed £50, and which both Falconer and Lyell
are most earnest for him to undertake, as they say it is quite a disgrace
to English geology not to know where rightly to place these beds.
They contain palm leaves two feet long. Bovey is twelve miles from
this, so it will be rather far for him to go ; but he has secured Keeping
--his head man at Brixham--who is most careful and trustworthy, to
work under him there. . . ."

     During May and June of this year Pengelly gave a course
of geological lectures at the Royal Institution, which passed off

very successfully.

                          Pengelly 2`0 122': I/Vzfi.

I"London, May 26, r860.--- . . . then went off to call on Falconer,

Ifound him very cordial, agreed to dine with him at the Geological Club
next Wednesday. On        leaving  I  the house      met       Mrs. M`Call,     Miss
Milne, and their uncle.    Next       went to the  Royal       Institution, to  hang

Imy diagrams, etc. ; found my specimens had travelled well. Faraday

most agreeable. This done, called at Tennant's, on my way to the
meeting. Met Ansted there, and had a good chat with him; a very
                I then went to                     The
agreeable man.                        Barlow's.     at   only  stranger at dinner
was Archdeacon  Sinclair, whom                          Miss   Coutts' more than
                                      I had met
                                                   I believe,  yet I did not think
Ionce.  The lecture went  off     satisfactorily,
   was  so untrammelled                            paid too    much attention to
                          as      usual; I had

preparation.    The   subject was also too large;       yet it seemed to give
satisfaction,          was frequently applauded.         The specimens were
               and I
greatly admired after the lecture. The audience contained a good
number of truly great men--Babbage, Faraday, Murchison (in the

Ichair), Tyndall, Grove, Bigsby, Daubeny, Wheatstone, and others.

made the acquaintance of Grove and Daubeny. . . ."

   I" London, May 29, r86o.-- . . . Yestermorn Dr. Skey and sallied
Iforth, immediately after breakfast, to call on Lyell; he received us very

cordially. He and went through all my criticisms on his `Manual,'
Imost of which he
sideration. I left                                 reserved the rest for con
                      thankfully  accepted, and       then called on Babbage,
                      him soon    after eleven.
and could not get away until after one. He is a splendid talker. He

seemed much pleased to see me, and complimented me very much on
I Imy lecture, in which he was evidently much interested. He is the
most marvellousworker ever met with.               never saw anything like the
evidence of multifarious and vast labour which his `workshop ' presents ;
he sticks at nothing. One drawer full of riddles, another of epigrams,
one of squared words, etc. . . . It is appalling! And then the down
right fun of the fellow; it is almost intoxicating to be with him! He
Iwas so kind as to give me a copy of his `Ninth Bridgewater Treatise.'

  dined with the Listers ; there was a large party. . . ."

                                                               H
98            WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                       [CH. VIII.

              Pengelly to his Wife.

    "London, [Way 31, r86o.---- . . . The days are rapidly flitting by,
and drawing my tarriance in the Modern Babylon swiftly to a conclusion.

I had received an invitation to dinner from Samuel Gurney, and accord
ingly found myself in Lombard Street at the appointed hour. Many
old friends were present, and an Ojibbeway Indian woman, who has
been sent over by her tribe to plead their cause before the Great Mother
(the Queen). Hitherto she has not been able to obtain an interview.
She is a Christian, speaks choice English fluently, is very self-possessed,
and might pass muster easily for a rather coarse-featured Englishwoman.
I. . . Yesterday took Salter to see my fossils at the Royal Institution.
IThen came the Geological Club dinner, which
Iguest.                                                         attended as Lyell's
          was well received by all; many of them were old friends.
Amongst them were Homer, Murchison,                                   Godwin-Austen,
Smyth, Lubbock, Prestwich, and Falconer.   Lyell, Percy,              Icapitally.
                                              It went off                          sat

by Lyell, who told me spontaneously he would gladly vote for me as
F.R.S.! My lecture was much and well spoken of. Then to the
Geological Society, where two papers were read by Falconer on the
Gower Caves. There was nothing new on the question of human
            A good discussion followed, in which Lyell, Austen,
Ichronology.
Prestwich, and took part. . . ."

    At the end of June, Pengelly attended the meeting of the

British Association at Oxford, and gives some account of the

proceedings in the following letters--

              Pengelly to his Wife.

    "Exeter College, Oxford, fune 28, I860.--- . . . I find, after all, I
did not send you my hasty scrawl of yesterday. But what of yester
Iday?                                       opening Address of
      ..  a.warew,eIntthtoinkh,eatrhatthe  it is usual to have  the   President   at four.
You                                                             this   address   and the
    are
Ilectures at eight; instead of that, they are to be given at four here.
do not think the change is popular; but it is said the authorities are
under oath not to allow lights in the building we should use on these
occasions after a certain hour. Prince Albert attended, and in a short
speech resigned the Presidency to Lord Wrottesley, who then delivered
his Address. The customary vote of thanks was moved by Lord Derby,
and seconded by Whewell. Neither of them succeeded in making a
very effective speech. After this to dinner at the Star Hotel--a
villainous substitute for a meal; so had, indeed, in every respect that
a large party of us went in a body, headed by Professor Macdonald, to
the bar, and stated that we would never dine there again. Well, now
you want to know who are here. Murchison, Lyell, Horner, Falconer,
Har'kness, Shuttleworth, Sedgwick, Moore, Chambers, etc. Phillips is
very friendly. Oxford is truly a superb place; the new museum                                                                    or
rather will be, magnificent. It far from finished.
    I
             I

                           I
                                                is

                                                               if

                                                                                                    it
                                                                                                                            is,
     "Well, now must close. want my breakfast, and do not yet know
where am to get it. It appears that the authorities only provide us
with lodgings, meals we find where we can, or we prefer
                                                                                 we can
1860--1861.] THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD.        99

go without. A grand-daughter of Lady Blakiston, an old pupil of mine,

claimed me as an acquaintance yesterday ; she is here with her husband,

Lionel Beale, Professor of Physiology, King's College, London. She

seemed much pleased to see me again. . . ."

                             Pengelly to his Vsze.

   I"Oxford, fune 29tb.-- . . . Now then for yesterday. First I

went to the Inquiry Room, where stumbled on Faraday, then to the
Committee Room, after which to Section `C.' Sedgwick's opening
Address most characteristic, full of clever fun. Most imperative that

papers should be as brief as possible--about ten minutes he thought--
he himself amplifying marvellously. The papers were not of a high
order yesterday, excellent no doubt in themselves, but not of general
Iinterest. There was one by my friend Mr. Tristram, of Durham (the
cIlersgeyem? an   to whom    sent fossils), on the Sahara. Well, now, whom did
                 Prestwich,  Salter, Bigsby, and lots of 'em. The evening

soirée was very good; it was held in the New Museum, from 1800 to
I2000 people seemed lost in it. There met Sir Charles and Lady
ILyell, Falconer, etc., etc.         find that Prestwich is just over my head,
Ii.e. he has rooms in the college, just over mine.
                                                    suppose the great
event of yesterday was a paper by Dr. Daubeny on the Sexual Organs
Iof Plants, with special reference to Darwin's theory. A most smart
discussion rose on it between Huxley and Owen.      tried to get in,
but the room was most densely packed. One consequence of Sedg

wick's law about time was that the section got through its business so

as to adjourn at two instead of three. . . ."

                             Pengelly lo lzis

     "Oxford, fune 29, 1860, 11.30 p.m.-- . . . This has been a
very busy day. In the morning got journals, then off to hang my
diagrams, then to committee, and then section, where Dr. Daubeny
read a paper on the Elevation-Crater theory, which of course brought
up Lyell to defend himself. This took an hour. Then came a paper
on Dolomitization, which took half an hour. Then came mine. Dear
I Iold Sedgwick wished it compressed.
                                               replied that, ` would do what
I could to please him, but did not know which to follow, his precept
or example.' The roar of laughter was deafening. Old Sedgwick took
it capitally, and behaved much better in consequence. My paper was
splendidly received, and drew forth an hour's discussion, in which
Phillips, Austen, Salter, Jukes, etc., took part; they all spoke highly
of and many expressed hope that would be printed at full
it,                          it a              it
           ;
                                         a
length. We went off at the close of the section to hear Professorit
Walker lecture on the Sun; was capital lecture. A vote of thanks
to Professor Walker was moved in an eloquent, though, as think,
                                                    I

unsound speech, by the Bishop of Oxford. The unsoundness consisted
in his laying down as law, that all things were made for man, and
"Iare useful in fact, this idea seemed to run through the lecture too.a
                               ." a
           begin to feel that short time will close proceedings, and put
me into harness again. . .
IOO                  \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                             [CH. VII I.

                                            Pengelly to leis Wife.

    "july 1, 1860.-- . . . Yesterday was a great day. Called on

Mrs. Yorke by appointment to meet Moore of Bath, who was to show
us his fossils. They are really wonderful, upwards of forty thousand
fish teeth, and many thousands of other fossils, many of them micro

Iscopic, dug or rather picked out of three cart-loads of rubbish. Next

to committee, where found Sedgwick very cordial, took my address,

and talks of paying me a visit. A paper by Mrs. Yorke's Genevese

friend, M. Favre, on the ` Structure of the Alps,' was given in French,
but it excited much attention. Then Moore's paper, which truly and
deservedly astonished the section; Lyell and Falconer spoke on it.
The latter said ` Mr. Moore was made for the Bone Bed, and the Bone

Bed was made for him.' Then left Section `C' and went to `D'

(Zoology) to hear a discussion on a paper which has direct reference to
Darwinism. The room was densely packed. The Bishop of Oxford,
Huxley, Dr. Hooker, Professor Beale, Lubbock, and others spoke on
it. The excitement was excessive, quite as great as at a political

meeting. . . ."

     "Exeler Callege, Oxford, july 2, r860.-- . . . Several good papers
at the sections to-day, especially one by a clergyman named Lister of
Wolverhampton, on some Reptilian Footprints from the New Red
sandstone north of Wolverhampton, a new locality, and therefore an
important fact. We shall get them in our New Reds by-and-by. The

section adjourned at two, to attend a meeting in the theatre, where the
           eDls.eC, .wL.howseasnacmoneferIrehdaveonforLgoorttden;Wroitttewsalseya,
degree of                                                                             Sedgwick, and
some one                                                                            pretty spectacle.
At three, to General Committee, and settled the next meeting shall be
at Manchester. Then to theatre, to hear Sherard Osborn deliver a
Lecture on Arctic Enterprise. At six to dinner with Professor Walker,
in Hall at Wadham College. We were about a dozen, amongst others
Professors Rankine and Earnshaw, Sir Edward Pechell, and Gassiot.
Lots of fun. . . ."

     Pengelly had now completed the notes which Sir Charles
Lyell had asked him to supply for the fifth edition of his manual

which was being prepared.

                     Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

   I"faly 2, I1860.---- . . . have been reading over your useful

criticisms, all of which have adopted or attended to, except where a
Irecast of the page or chapter had already superseded the necessity of

adopting them. have to thank you much ; and shall only say a few words
I Ion your reference to Mr. Hopkins' paper, vol. viii., Quart. four. Geol. Soa,

which am glad to have been called upon to read over again, as might

have"  omitted   to do so.          it before the publication of my last
                already considered
       I had
edition of the Manual, but found it would take me more time and space

than I could then afford to discuss it. So far as the Manual is con
cerned, I am almost in the same state of feeling now, but should have
1860--1861.]  SIR C. LYELL ON THE GULF STREAM.                                                                        IOI

liked to have had a talk with you on the subject ; for, if I mistake not, you
               critical remarks on Hopkins'                                                        hypothesis of the
                                                                                                   at Torquay, and
               the Gulf Stream, when I was
Ithrew

of the
    out some                                                                                                          change
                                                                                                                       should
    course of
bAemev"reircMyaynglafidcrostniftidynoiefunfitcuwlotiymulpdliys,retpIheistah.tintkhT,ehmae
                                                                                           in a letter.               North
                                                                                           glacial phenomena of the   of the

                                                                                           more southern extension

seve"reHocoplkdintsh'anthedooryt,hoinsesteoafdNoorfthheelrpningEuruospeto. comprehend this, diverts
the Gulf Stream, so as to warm up the American side of the North
Atlantic and cool the European side.
     "2. The delta of the Mississippi                                                      it is,according to my notion,  Ia
hundred thousand or two hundred thousand years old. And prior to
that was the older delta implied by the upraised `loess' of Natchez,                          I
    Fig. 23, `Principles,' 9th Ed. p. 265; and the older deposit was,
d,

think, more modern than the period of erratic blocks.
    "All this time             out of the question to suppose that the valley
                    it
                         a is
of the Mississippi was bay of the sea, connecting the Gulf of Mexico
with the Arctic region.
    "Therefore we should have to throw back the Glacial Period very
far, in order to admit Hopkins' hypothesis, etc. Now, have no
                                                                                                   I

objection to give   it  an antiquity of several hundred thousand years,

but this would make us suppose                                                             contemporaneous with the
European Northern drift, in which case should require rather to
cool the Gulf of Mexico than to make the hot waters of that Gulf flow

northwards for thousand miles or more.
              a

                I
     "Nevertheless am willing, on the other hand, to suppose great
local developments of cold, owing to elevation of mountain chains

and other combinations, so as to produce great north and south or

meridional lines of glaciation, for that would help us to introduce Darwin
and Hooker's migrations of North Polar species of plants and animals
into the equatorial mountains, and thence into South Temperate zones,

without a universal chill, or simultaneous freezing of both hemispheres,
annihilating in Pleistocene times all the tropical forms of vegetation,
etc., and requiring a new creation of the same in Post-pleiocene times.
                               a
                                 is

                                             if
     "Please to let me hear from you, you have any thoughts on the
                                                                                                                          aa
"Isubject, for or against Hopkins' scheme.
           suspect that Hopkins in error in imagining that in an island
like Great Britain (or British Isles) there could not be an upheaval of
several thousand feet without contortion of strata. Take the steepest
of railway gradients, and see to what a vast height you may rise in

few hundred miles.             Ia  slope of an angle of two degrees,

    "In hundred miles with
    Ia
which would be to the eye horizontal, you would more than reachI is
height above the sea-level of three miles or the height of Mont Blanc.
    "But must not run on.          wish you merely to tell me whether
you think there so much weight in Hopkins' Gulf Stream diversion
hypothesis, that ought to modify my southern curve of the lines of
cold in the Glacial Period, on comparing North America and Europe.
    "My letters will be forwarded to me abroad wherever may be
                                                                                                   I

after Friday next, 6th inst., when leave after post-hour. But in caseI
you write after that, do not write on very thin paper, as some of my
102                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.                       [Cl-X. VIII.

Ifriends do. Any news of the meeting after left would be acceptable.
I have just seen Baron Anca, who has really found the Eleplzar
Afrieanus in the Sicilian caves, accompanying one of the extinct
Sicilian Hippopotami. . . .
   I"Your paper on the Devonian fossils made a very favourable

impression; and under less chilly auspices should like to have said
something on the conclusion to which it pointed.
to the Geological Society ? "                           Shall you send it

     During August, 1860, the British Medical Association met at

Torquay, and Pengelly, in response to a request from several

medical friends, delivered a lecture before the members.

     The lecture is thus referred to in a letter from an enthusiastic

pupil. "The day I left Torquay I was in a railway carriage

full of doctors, all speaking of your lecture the night before, and
seeming delighted. They spoke of it with rapture. . . . "

     Sir Charles Lyell had been consulted by Pengelly with
reference to his collection of plants, and he wrote :--

                       Sir' Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

   I I"December 12, 1860.----- . . . have been considering what should
Ido, if had myself collected the plants you allude to, and had to get
Ithem figured, for should require the same kind of help which you are
desirous of getting.
     "As Dr. Hooker, who is just returned from Syria, and is over
Iwhelmed with arrears of work accumulated in his absence, is out of

the question, the next person thought of as the most competent is
ISir Charles Bunbury. But he will not be staying in town till February.
  might get him to do  something then    ;   but he could not  bsepharuer.riedS, tiallndI
would take perhaps     longer time to         than you could
                                         it

Ithink he might help greatly in February.

     "The other person whom should turn to is Professor Morris,
IHigh Street, Kensington. You might address a letter to him, and

say suggested his assistance, and try to get an appointment. Perhaps
                          for the University College Museum, which is
you might  offer to him,
under his  charge, a set  of duplicates. I gave him some good fossil

fish from the United States Trias, for that Museum, as an acknowledg
       of some help he gave   me in the
men"t  Morris has written an  Appendix   geological  way a year ago.  fossil
                                         to a paper
                                                     of Prestwich on
plants of Colebrook-Dale Coal, and has studied also Tertiary plants,
I Iand would, think, be a safe adviser.      will call in and see your
Iplants; but, even if were not most fully engaged in trying to get
Iout my new edition, really could not undertake the task for want
"Iof kn"oIwalemdggeladontothheeasrubojef cyto. ur having so many specimens of palms.

           can see no objection to the course you are taking, or in that
proposal by me on the score of its interfering with Dr. Falconer. It
1860-1861.] ADVICE TO A SON--DESTRUCTION OF LIFE. 103

Imfaulls"ttobpesiaedwceessMir,aisbwslheiCchotouttgthseet,yladmtreaalwyy,indgaosn,dmiftaaldlikkeeedbtehtfooosrheeerIsoosmaf wyeoauotrfBdtoihsveceoyv.sepre.iecis.m.".ens

     Some letters written by Pengelly to his son Alfred during
this and the following year, are valuable, not only for the
evidence they afford of his own occupations at this period, but
also as showing his ready sympathy with his son's pursuits.

                            Pengelly to his Son.

I" Torquay, fune 7, 1860.-- . . .           was extremely pleased to find
Iyou had been so successful in Chemistry. The failure in Geometry
was to be regretted, but it is not irreparable, we will hope.            do not

believe anything can compensate for a low amount of Geometrical
knowledge; so read up and read hard, my boy. I rather regret your
Ifgiving up your Entomology. ` A rolling stone gathers no moss,' it is
said, and truly.  you        have an enlightened             ctwohneesllcpieranasctitoiincuesa, llaoonbtdjheecItrisod)n.esirteoI
fly-catching it is clearly  your duty to give up
                            so (in this matter as
to encourage you to do
quite think no one should destroy life without a sufficient motive, and
in my judgment merely
nor are we justified as     Idothinignkwthoattakoethelirfse  do  is net  a sufiicient motive,
                                                             in  order   that we may make
a collection of things more or less pretty, and which, when well grouped
and arranged, will make an attractive show. But if the object is elearly
Ito study the works of Creation, hold it to be a sufficient motive, and
I should have no scruple to kill any infra-human animal in order the
Ifbetter to accomplish such object.
                                            this is your view your duty is first
Ito ask yourself, ` What is my object in killing insects P' This answered

satisfactorily, think you may safely kill them with a clear conscience ;
still, if you think otherwise, desist, for if you cannot clearly answer the

Iquestion, you ought not to kill. So far as it is a question of cruelty,
cannot but think that the Aquarium is the worst. The animals in it
generally die more or less lingeringly, while in the hands of a good
entomologist, insects die suddenly and on the whole with greatly less

pain; but still it is a matter of individual feeling and judgment. I
must leave it to yourself.
  I ISince                                  been in town, and            very much I
                                            spend some weeks
enjoyed                                                                  there yearly.
    last          wrIoteshoyuoldu     have
myself.                            like to
I reached London a little before midnight on 22nd ult. On Friday
I dined with the Secretary of the Royal Institution, and afterwards
gave my lecture to a good, and eminently scientific, audience. The

subject was the Devonian fossils of Devon and Cornwall. I had
compiled large tables showing the statistics of the question, i.e. the
Inumber of species in the various classes and their distribution in
Time and Space.   took up seven trays of specimens for illustration.
It is considerably more than a joke to lecture to an audience composed,
as mine was, of such men as Faraday, Tyndall, Babbage, Grove,
Daubeny, Wheatstone, Murchison, etc., and also a crowd of non
scientific folk; the task then becomes difficult, as a lecture is required
104                                 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                              [CIL VIII.

to be at once profound and popular--a not very frequent combination
Iof qualities, and perhaps not a desirable one. On Monday morning
  called on  Sir C.                 ILycealllledandonspBeanbtbatwgeo,  hours with  him criticising                          his
`Manual.'    Then                                                      the author   or constructor
                                                                                                                             of

Ithe calculating machine, one of the most remarkable and talented
men the world has ever produced. On Wednesday                                      dined with the
Geological Club; we were about thirty, including some of the most
eminent geologists. After dinner we went to the Geological Society,
where a paper was read by Dr. Falconer descriptive of some ossiferous

caverns  near Swansea 3 he made                    the astounding      statement   that between
ten and  eleven hundred antlers                                        had been
                                                   of the Reindeer                 taken out of

IONE cavern. There is no manner of doubt about its correctness. On

Friday, the last day I spent in town, heard Dr. Tyndall lecture at
the Royal Institution on a `Winter Visit which he made to the Swiss

IGlaciers.' It was extremely interesting, and he is a truly charming

lecturer. During my visit was the guest of an old gentleman who
wintered at Torquay last season; his name is Dr. Skey, he is eighty
six years of age, and very bright indeed."

                                    Pengelly to his San.

     II,"Torquay, May               1861.-- . . . My last visit to town was a very
Iagreeable one. My lecture was warmly applauded.
                                                                                   left home on
ITuesday, so as to have a day at Oxford on my way, in order that
                                                   of arranging        the `Pengelly' collection                            of
tmfoosilgdshiltsy.ouhaIIvewgaoastn   opportunity   time for Dr.
                                    there just in                      Daubeny's dinner (I think                            I
                                    to be his guest). We went in the evening to Magdalen
ICollege, at the invitation of the President thereof. Next day arranged
Ithe fossils, and left for town at four o'clock. This was sorry to do,
as Dr. Daubeny had invited a large dinner-party of all the eminent
men resident in the University to meet me. There was no help for
     however, as had made previous engagement in town. Before
it,

                I

                                         a

                          I
                                                        a
                                                                               a
                                              I
                                                                                                                         a

                                                                         I
leaving, Dr. Daubeny informed me that wish had been expressed by
the Vice-Chancellor of the University that would deliver lecture
on the `Pengelly' collection of fossils before the University some
                                    reached town just in time for dinner, after
time before June roth.
which we all went to large party at the Bishop of London's.                                                                 met

Murchison there, who told me that all the geologists connected with
the flint instrument question are to be immortalized in `Punch'
next week. Your dad in the number."

                                    Pengelly to lzis Sou.

     T" oryuay, September                                              fancy ought to have written
                                    I,             1861--4 .

                                        I
                                                I.

                                                   .I

                                                                   is

                                                            II
                                                                   Ia
you this day week, but truly am almost worked to death (that                                                                is
                                                                                                                                a

strong expression). My correspondence                                  becoming    grave affair.
                                                              do not suppose shall be able
I  have four papers for Manchester.

to get them all in, but that will not trouble me.                                  hope to leave this

on Tuesday, and go on, with Mamma, next day to Manchester.                                                                  I
hope you are doing as much as you can towards the examination. Let
me advise you very, very strongly against taking up more than one
1860--1861.] INVITED TO MAKE A GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.                 105

thing at a time. The classical subject and nothing else until that is
Ifairly conquered, ditto mathematics, ditto Milton, etc., etc. Speaking

of Milton, strongly advise your reading the `Paradise Lost' quite
through from end to end, so as to get a general idea of the poem,

then return to the two books, and take them up critically.
"There is a splendid critique on the poem by Addison in the
IfSpectator, which you should read by all means.     it is not in your
Ischool library, it ought to be.  have engaged to deliver a course of
six lectures on Geology at Norwich in Ianuary next.
"Heer, the Swiss Fossil-botanist, has made out forty-one species
Iof plants at Bovey, and has pronounced the formation to be decidedly
Miocene.     am extremely busy professionally now, have no time for

gardening or geologizing."

                            Pengelly to his Son.

I" Torquay, October 21, 186r.--I was sorry not to be able to write
you as usual this day fortnight.  went to London the day before to
Ilook over the Bovey specimens with Dr. Falconer and Sir C. Lyell;
they were both delighted with them.        dined and slept at Miss Coutts'
residence at Highgate, and returned home on Monday. You probably
Iremember that the huge pit at Bovey had a considerable quantity of
water in it when you were there.           am happy to say that by the, for

us, well-timed continuous pumping, which has been lately undertaken, the
water is so far gone that we reach the bottom of the pit at the western
end and work there with comfort. You will probably remember that

the lignite beds were divided into two series, an upper and lower, by a
thick bed of sand. We have made a complete section from top to
bottom of the lower series, thereby revealing the thickness, character,
and fossils of the beds, and of the clays, etc., by which they are separated.

IWe purpose doing the same by the upper series, and shall probably
begin to-morrow.       purpose  going to   Looe on Tuesday next,  to deliver
a lecture on ` Fossil  Organic  Remains.'                         Penzance,
                                             Next day I go on to
to read my paper on the Distribution in Time and Space of our
IDevonian fossils--the paper indeed which read at Oxford somewhat
Iamplified.  am glad to find you liked Mr. Greenbank's professional
visit to you, and still more that you `got on pretty well' at your Reading
meeting. Good reading is a valuable, but almost equally rare, accom

plishment."

    In the summer of 1861 Pengelly delivered lectures, which
were well attended, at the Royal Institution and at Oxford.
While in London, General Wyndham asked him to go to India
in order to make a geological survey for the native prince of

the Cashmere region.

                                            Pengelly to lzir VVz'je.

   I"Royal Imtitulion, May 23, r86r.-- . . . My lecture is just over,

and am again breathing freely. We reached town safely about a
quarter after time yesterday. The dinner-party went off well. There
106                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                    [Cl-l. VIII.

were about forty, amongst them the American Ambassador, Lord and
Lady Elgin, Sir Hope Grant, Sir Thomas Cochrane, General Wyndham,
Lady Charles                                           J. K.
the President    Wellesley, Tyndall,  Wheatstone, Sir                      Shuttleworth,
                 of Magdalen, etc.                      deal               of talk with
                                       I had a good
General Wyndham. Mr. and Mrs. President of Magdalen are also
stopping in Stratton Street. . . . Please remember to send my diagrams
in good time, and then I'll praise you to the skies. . . ."

                      ngelZy to his VVzfi.

     "London, May 24, 1861.-- . . . Well, breakfast over, yesterday, I

went to hang my diagrams, and then returned here to meet General
Wyndham, to take him to Jermyn Street to introduce him to Murchi
son, as the general is desirous of getting a geologist to proceed to
India to survey for the native prince of the Cashmere region. He
offered me the place, but it is out of the question altogether. We were
Inot so fortunate as to find Sir Roderick, and shall make another
attempt to-day.  then proceeded to Tennant's to take a Devonshire

IMadrepore table, which he had promised to lend me to illustrate my
lecture to the Royal Institution.     went to Dr. Skey's, and then

returned to my lecture, which you will remember was on the Corals
and Sponges. It was quite as well attended as ever, and my audience
was very attentive. The polished specimens excited very great

attention, and the audience lingered long over them, and asked a
multitude of questions ; then called on Sir C. Lyell. The only remark~
Iable person at dinner at Miss Coutts', so far as know, was Babbage.
I Iwas so fortunate as to sit very near him.
                                                 forgot to say that Fechter,
the great Shakesperian actor, was at dinner. After our meal we went
off to an immense upper room on the first floor, which was soon filled

to the brim with men and women of all degrees, from dukes and
bishops to artisans, to hear Fechter read selections from Hamid, which
Ihe didmost charmingly. In the company
       Dr. Daubeny, Crawford, and lots of    were Mr. Homer and Lady
Lyell,
                                             others whom I more or less

knew.    arranged with Lady Lyell to go to Harley Street to-day at
1.30, to see Sir Charles. I will report progress in my next."

                      .Pe/lgelbl to lair Wife.

     I" 1, Stratlo/z Street, May 25, r86I.--- . . . Yesterday              went by

Iappointment to meet H------ at the Royal Academy, and spent an

hour in a mortal squeeze. This is a thing which did enjoy (not the
squeeze, but the paintings) ; but it is in your line, not mine. Thence to
jermyn Street, to meet and introduce General Wyndham to Murchison.
We found Sir Roderick, who was very gracious, and named a Dr.
                      mabaonutfotrhethaeffaIinr.dianBefgoereoloIgicleaflt
Hector as the very                                                         business, and pro
mised to set to work                                                       Murchison invited

Ime to dine with him on Monday, at the Geographical dinner. . .
Then off to Lyell's, where   had engaged     to  take  luncheon.           We talked
over the Bovey affair, and  thus it stands:       am   to prepare          a paper to
                                              I
be read at the Royal Society, at the first meeting in November. Heer
is to be asked to describe the plants, and the drawings, and some of
1860--1861.] DISCUSSION ON ESSAYS AND REVIEWS.                        107

the more portable fossils are to be sent to him, unless he thinks it
necessary to come to England, to examine the collection and
locality. . . ."

     So much has been already written on the subject of the
celebrated " Essays and Reviews," that, though they greatly

interested Pengelly, it will not be necessary to quote more than
one letter of his on the question. After attending a meeting in
London, where the Essays had been discussed with much warmth
of feeling, he writes to his wife as follows :--

    I" 1, Stratton Street, London, May 27, r861.---- . . . On my arrival

at the meeting found ` Essays and Reviews ' were under condemnation.
I Iwas sorry was not there in time to hear B
Iquestion, as                                     '5 speech on the

speakers, it
most violent
            from what heard incidentally and allusively from other
                                good speech. I am told      that C----- was
            must have been a
             in his anathemas.     After my arrival (don't  suppose I mean
Ibecause of it), the speeches were temperate, which was glad of, as
Iotherwise  should have felt it right to caution the meeting not to
persecute what they regarded as heretical opinions into notoriety, and
possibly to have said something like protesting against any opinion
being given on the work by a large miscellaneous body, composed of
persons of whom probably not three were capable, either from their
knowledge, or mental power, or freedom from prejudice, of giving a
worth anything. The matter,
valiant or otherwise from me.                     was closed without any
                                                  at the Listers', where
verdict

Iremark
met amongst other old                   however,            ,' A.  FToyxloran; dmyI
friend Joseph Lister;                                       W.
                                         I dined
                       friends, R.      Fox    of Falmouth
                       and most     W.  the    family. R.
                                    of

contended that `Essays and Reviews' had met no refutation, and
could not be scoffed down, nor easily replied to. A
                                                                      thought
otherwise; but, good man! he will not be a philosopher for a day or
                         F---- was somewhat impatient, so soundly

                       not sorry that he left very early, as am quite
two to come at

Iorthodox is he.
            least!

            I was
I Ihcfoearrsgtaotitankteonheteallihsoyuoiuslle,ibteihnraatHl eItsolkeeaartnhevdCerreyfrsocmreenmt.La"arkd*ayblLeyeldl etghraete.th.e
                                                            .    .    think
                                                                      Darwin
                                                               great

                       Pengelly to his Wife.

I" r, Stratt0n Street, May 28, r861.----- . . .   left the meeting soon

after six, to attend the Geographical dinner. The company was a large
one. Amongst those known to me were H. Rogers, R. Chambers,
C. Landseer, E. W. Cooke (marine artist), H. Christy, S. Gurney,
Murchison, King, and a few others. . . ."

I"London, May 29, 1861.--- . . . dined with the Listers, where
Iwas a large party.    got back just in time to go to a conversazione at
Dr. Lankester's. The scene is fairly drawn in one of the numbers of

                                * At Torquay.
108                         WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                               [Crn VIII.

Ithe Com/zill. Such a squeeze ! had pleasant chats with R. Chambers,
IDr. Gladstone, Dr. Daniel (a great scholar and traveller), and Mr.
Yates.      got home soon after eleven, and found Lyell had called. . . ."

                            Pengelly to [as Wife.

     "London, jam 7, 186I.--This is probably the last letter I shall
                            some time;    and indeed, this will not be com
write you from   town for   just to put   in a line at Oxford, all being well,
pleted here, as
                 I intend

so as to  say  how  Bmigysbley,ctuarned,thIerheopgeo,esproefvf.aileBdefoonre   my  lecture  yesterday
          on   Dr.                                                            him  not to    take any
I called
steps in my individual case with the Council of the Royal Institution,
leaving him to do as he likes with the general question. He told me

my lectures had been considerably better attended than Owen's, which
were concluded just before mine began. My last lecture was very well

Iattended, and gave much satisfaction, think. The cuttlefish were a
Idecided hit, and were in no way offensive. After the lecture called
on Dr. and Mrs. Percy. At dinner our party was a small one of fifty;
amongst them Lord Lansdowne,          ILotrodokHainnoLvaedr,yFe(Pchhtielirp,)
Wheatstone, John Young, etc.                                                       Sir Roderick,
of course, we    talked of                                                          Egerton, so,
capitally, and                                        The whole affair went off
                 I to bed   the lines in  Pane/z.  I  shall not be able to get
                            at half-past  one.

away from      here before eleven     to-day,  which  will make                    me later  at
Oxford than
                I could wish. . . ."

                            Pengelly lo lzis I/sze.

    "Botanic Gardens, Oxford, fune 8, 1861.---- I. . . have not much

to communicate, but must keep up the daily letter. Our dinner-party
last night was a very agreeable one. Besides the Vice-Chancellor, his

wife and two daughters, there were Daubeny, Professor Phillips and
Miss Phillips, Dr. Thompson and wife, Professor Smith, Westwood,

and two or three others, whose names have escaped me. This morning
we had at breakfast a Mr. Jenyns, well known as a naturalist, related to
Dr. "DNauebxetnyI. went to the Museum, saw Dr. Rolleston, the distinguished

physiologist, and had a long gossip with him (he is shortly to marry a
IMiss Davy of Ambleside, daughter of Dr. Davy, and therefore niece of
Sir Humphry).       Then had    a chat with Westwood, who                           is one   of the
professors at the   Museum, as                                                     strolled  by the
                                is Rolleston also. Next I
                                         and all the fairy-like character of
river, and  saw the students afloat,     for the purpose of making known
the river.
            I am writing this partly
Ithese important facts, and partly for the purpose of resting myself; for,

truth to tell, am indeed very tired. The Vice-Chancellor was very

eulogistic about my lecture, and declared there was a family likeness

Ibetween Phillips and myself as lecturers.            We have a dinner-party

to-night, so must conclude. . . ."

     The deposits at Bovey Tracey were now arousing consider
able attention in the scientific world ; the part which Professor
Heer took in the examination has already been referred to.
1860--1861.]  FOSSIL PLANTS OF BOVEY TRACEY.                                                                  109

                       Sir Clzarles Lyell to Pengelly.

"june 17, 1861.---- . . . I received your letter returning Mr. Key's;
Ibut you did not acknowledge one sent you, giving you an abstract of
Iwhat    had  written  to Professor Heer. You will see     btyhattheI        enclosed
     he  has   made    himself a good English scholar, so                   need not
that
Ihave written in French.
                               am exceedingly glad that he can come here.
If he goes with you to Bovey Tracey, he has such an eye for plants that
it will surprise me if he does not find some which have been missed.
"He has such stores of books, and herbaria, private and public,
and living plants in the       Botanic Garden, such
collection of fossil plants     to refer to at Zurich,  tahapt uIblihcaveandno                                private
                                                                                                               doubt

that it will be best to send to him at once all the specimens you can,
and all your drawings. He will get the additional drawings done

"Ifcheaply, such`as may be necessary.

            he makes out what subdivision of the Lower Miocene Bovey
belongs to, it will indeed be a great step; already it seems to be, as
Gaudin said, Lower Miocene.
     "As soon as he gets the specimens, he may communicate such

conclusions as may enable you to draw up your application of the

"Ibotany to the geology.
             was afraid that Heer's numerous academical and publishing
engagements would have made his visit to England impossible; but,
fortunately, his ` Tertiary Flora' is finished.

     "The Aspidium led two geologists into that astounding blunder of

identifying the Carboniferous and Tertiary flora.       I  shall            be glad                           of  it
     "When you have quite done with Heer's letter,

again.

    "I"Do you not think Miss Coutts should see it? . . .

           should be inclined to send off at once by post a small box of
minute fossil seeds of Bovey, that he may see them before he leaves
Zurich for his tour, and may write to you, and perhaps make sug

gestions."

                             Pengelly to leis Wife.

"Torquay, August 19, 186r.-- . . . I am just back from Exeter,
                                        wI iwllenotcctuopyExeatteler asbty  a part of it                       in
and having    an hour  before  bedtime                                      first train,                      my
a narrative   to you.    This  morning

Itravelling companions being Barnes and                                     his way to
                                                                             Dymond,
Ireland, the former off to Switzerland.
                                        Wolfe, the         last on

                                        At Exeter          I met R.

who introduced me to the Devon and Exeter Institution, where found
Ia copy of Lyson's ` Magna Britannia,' and made a copy of the account

of the Bovey lignite which it contains. Whilst there encountered
Mr. W. Vicary, who took me to see the gravel deposit near the Nursery
Garden at St. Thomas's, remarkable as a geological formation, and still

more since very recently ROMAN pottery has been found in
                  /I                                                                                          ezglzt feet

                                    it
                                           is

                                          I

                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                         it,
éelow the surface!     What changes this river plain must have under
gone within even the historic period!   do earnestly hope that this
matter will be followed up;
                               a fertile subject. Next, Vicary took
me to his house to dine; but before dinner he showed me lot of fine
I [0                                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [C H. VIII.

fossils, found in the pebbles on the beach at Budleigh Salterton ; also a
very splendid series from the Greensand of Haldon; then a series of
Beekites from the red conglomerate of North Tawton, sufficiently like
those of Torbay to show that they are Beekites, and sufficiently unlike
them to show that the conditions could not have been identical. Lastly,
and best of all the good things, he showed me unquestionable pebbles
Iof the Dartmoor Porphyritic granite, found by himself in the red
conglomerate of Haldon.                       hope to visit the locality with him on

Wednesday to get some specimens, and then prepare a paper on the
geological age of the Dartmoor granite. Why, it is really a jolly go!!
We can   now     limit the age             of the granite on both the
modern   side.                              old as the Carboniferous    ancient and       the
                   It is not so                                         age, since it     has

sent veins into rocks of that period; it is more ancient than the red
conglomerate, i.e. Triassic probably, otherwise it is Permian, since it
sent pebbles to help to form the said conglomerate. Hence between the
Carboniferous and Triassic (if it be Triassic), that during the Permiana if
age, by no means supposed to be one of our long periods, there was
time enough for the granite to be formed and the rocks which MUST haveI
                                                                   is,
covered probably several miles thick, to be stripped off, so that theit it,
granite was exposed at the surface; or the red rocks be Permian, then
between and the Carboniferous era vast period of time must have

elapsed, and this time             I a is  totally unrecognized in the chronological
series of the geologist. What an astounding, an overwhelming value
                                                                                          it

sets on geological units in even the first case!                     must bring this matter
                                              must do justice to Vicary in the case.
befo"reWtehlel,  scientific  world,      and  next to the Guildhall to see the Mayor
                  then we    dined,      and

and Corporation receive the [Archaeological] Association. First came

the Mace-bearers, then                   the Sword-bearer  with marvellous hat presenteda
to the City by Henry                                       Mayor shook hands with Sir
                                         VII., then the

Stafford Northcote the President, and Mr. Pettigrew the Treasurer, then
he asked us to take refreshment, which we did in the Council Chamber,
after which we went in body to the Subscription Rooms, and Sir
Stafford delivered an excellent extempore address. This over, we went
round the City to see the fragments of the City Wall still in existence
fraternized with Pettigrew and Wright the Antiquary, whom had met
II                                                                ."
         I
                                                                                   I
before.          had to reach home that evening, so could not attend the

evening meeting, which much regretted. . .

                                         Pengzlly Wto 111'; ife.

"Lamorna, Torquay, August 22, 1861.-- . . . Yesterday morning

took first train to Exeter, found Vicary and his carriage awaiting me
at the station, drove to Haldon, found and extracted granitic pebbles
in the red conglomerates, studied the greensand that caps the hill
until my heart ached to think of the thousand thousand questions which
forced themselves before me, and which felt sure shall never live to
answer, and my mental eyes ached at looking so far into the abyss of
                                         !

                                                      I

                                                                   !! a

                                                                   I

                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                            !
antiquity. Drove back to Exeter to dinner with Vicary. Took stroll
in Veitch's garden and then home, to find letter from Lyell, inclosing
one from Heer, in French, which states that Bovey has yielded forty

five distinct species (hip hip! hurrah                               Again! again! again
1860--1861.] ARCH/EOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION AT EXETER.                                                              III

Three cheers more I ! For he's a jolly good fellow), decidedly Miocene.*
IThis
Ithat
         morning     received    ahliemttertofroBmrixhWarmighCt atvheernA.ntiqI upaurty,ofip"rospeovseinrgal
           should  accompany
lessons, then to the station just in time to see the train go off. So I
came home to work at my paper, and then at Tor Abbey to meet the

Archaeologists, got there at half-past two, and after waiting an hour they
arrived, but so much after time that the Abbey had to be scamped ;

down came the rain. 'l`hen home to work, and the Archaeologists to
the Hotel to dine. . . ."

                                 Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

   I" August 21, r861.--- .      .    .      send you Heer's most interesting                                   and
                                         shall be glad to have again when                                       you
satisfactory dispatch, which        I
Ihave digested its contents. Not that mean to forestall him and you,
Ifor shall have only room for a sentence or two about Bovey, but there
Iare
Ito.
       several points in answer to queries of mine                            which           must again refer
           only got Heer's letter this morning, and                                         an abstract of the
                                                                              I sent
leading results to Miss Coutts, thinking it right that she should know, not
only how fruitful your labours have been, but also that Heer, following
our instructions, has employed his artists largely on the forty-five species
       already made out. The Sequoia Couttrz'ze
(l)                                                                           is            good hit, as '           so
                                                                                  a
                                                                                                            it
"Iabundant, and furnished the lignite.                                                                          ." is

          congratulate you on the prospect of Heer's visit to Torquay in
the middle of next month. You see, he will be here 31st August, and
stay here ten or twelve days. . .
                                 II
                                 Pengelly ta his VVz'fe.
                                       it ."
       "Lamorua, August 26, 186r.--- . . hasten to acknowledge the
                                              .

                                                  II
receipt of yours just to hand, seem to be always writing, and cannot
see my way to a moment's leisure, hence fear my letters to you have

probably hurried aspect.                 begin to doubt whether shall ever over
           a                                                                                I
                           .
                              .  Well, well, will all be over some day, and some
take my work. .
other person will be puzzled with the problem which puzzles me, to wit,
       there any real advantage in having restless, active mind? . .
`                                             a
   is

                                 Sir C/zarlzr Lyell 2`0 Pengelly.

       "August 26, 1861.-- . . Many thanks for returning Heer, to
                       is

                                                    .

                                                                  ."

                                                            I
.....whom must write today at paste-restante, Paris.                                        see by the papers

that Miss Coutts gone to the Continent
I
        I
     "Next to finding fossils to show whether the red conglomerate                                                     is
Permian or Trias, the granite pebbles are valuable. You remember

inquired whether you had seen any. . .

                                 Pengelly 10 his Wife.

       " Torquay, August 29, 186r.--- .                                       saw the case of the Swiss
                       is

                                   it
                                          is

                                                                   .
                                                                           .

                                                  I
Guides some days ago;                    very interesting, and proves that Forbes

        The important"`fact that these   species were                       laotef rthoisn   determined  to be  Eocene,
by Mr. S. Gardner,      mentioned at     the beginning                                      Chapter.

                                         i    AI
I I2                \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [Cl-I. VIII.

(James,   not Edward, remember) has real knowledge respecting the
          not the   bcuatusneo, tofelGsel,acIiatlhiMnko.tionT.he  We have knowledge       when
laws, if  predict,                                                 fossils are just back   from

we can
IZurich.
          have not opened the box, and do not think of doing so before
I get back from Manchester. ` For Better for Worse' is finished and
most charmingly. ` Philip' is going on well under Thackeray's unmis

takable guidance."

     During September, 1861, the British Association met at

Manchester. Pengelly attended the meeting as usual, and had
the pleasure of being accompanied by his wife. He read the

following papers at the Geological Section : "A New Bone-cave

at Brixham," "The Recent Encroachments of the Sea on the
Shores of Torbay," "The Relative Age of the Petherwin and
Barnstaple Beds," " The Age of the Granites at Dartmoor."

    Section "C" was that year ably presided over by Sir

Roderick Murchison.

                    Sir Clzarles Lyell lo Pengelly.

I" September 4, r86r.--- . . . spoke to Professor Heer about Miss

Coutts' message. . . .

    "He has arranged with Sir. R. I. Murchison that the drawers of
mull plants should be open to him, though the Jermyn St. Museum is
closed, and he is to visit that and the British Museum to-day and

to-morrow. He has plenty to do, and will,I expect, find among the
fruits and seeds in the Museum at Kew, some which will throw light
on the fossils. Dr. HOOker has told me when he can see them.
     " He will be much more prepared by his stay here to do the Bovey

busin"eIssamwesllo. rry to say Heer has a cold, and must take great care of
I Ihimself. He has always had a consumptive tendency, and for that
reason went to Madeira, as  think told you. Heer's address is

`Swiss House Hotel, Golden Square, London.' When you know on
what day you will join him, pray write to him. . ."

                          Sir Clzarles Lyell lo Pengelly.

    I I"September 22, 1861.---- . . . confess was surprised to hear that

Professor Heer could be two hours in your collection and find no
.additional species. It shows how well you chose the set you sent to
Zurich, and how good an eye you had acquired for nice botanical
distinctions.

     "You will be glad to hear that Dr. Hooker is much struck with the

work which Heer has done in the Bovey Coal plants. He pronounced
quite an éloge on it.

     "Will you be so good as to give me notice when Heer will be in
town, and tell him Dr. Hooker wishes him to come again to Kew. He
(Dr. H.) has also sent me some specimens of the seeds of Platanus

                    t,
Il31860--1861.] SIR C. LYELL ON PROFESSOR HEER'S WORK.

orientalis, and Plalanur acerifolia, as bearing on a point discussed with

IHeer, which want to show him, and talk over. Please mention this.
   "I have heard from M. Gaudin from Bex. He was to return to
ILaus"annheopein                     to see Miss Coutts.
                  time              Professor Heer's health            has not    suffered,  and    that  the
                  that

cold which he took away with him from London has not continued to

plague him. . ."

                                    Sir C/zque: Lyell to Pengelly.

    "Seiolezlzber 28, r861.-- . . . It is very remarkable that Professor

Heer failed to detect any new species in your collection, which you had
certa"inIlyammagslatedreydouthaedvcaonncteedntsthoef
                                                              very thoroughly.      allude   to.
                                                              money which you
I"As to reading a paper, know of no way but writing to the
ISecretary, Dr. Sharpey ; you may say recommended you to do so, and
to ask when you can have an evening, or part of one. As to Heer not

being ready, it will do if he sends in such sketches as will enable them
to make rough estimates of the cost, and then the plates can be

engr"avMeodstat   Zurich, and        more              correct drawings      used.  and      might  remain
                  of Heer's         paper              will never be         read,

untranslated till later.
   If"You could
                                    nthotreehaSvweissha*d   three more eminent      men to show your
rock"s to than the                                         who were with you.
                                                                                    Heer, I should be
        you could enable me to write to Professor
glad of an address, to send to him a message from Dr. Hooker before
he gets here ; but if you do not know, you need not write. . . ."

                                    Sz'r Cfiarles Lyell to Pengelly.

   I" October 9, 186r.-- . . . have this day sent you the plates and

manuscript of Professor Heer's paper, which he gave me charge of
when he left London, and begged me to send it to you immediately,

and to say that a small part of the translation he had not time to add
in his handwriting, but you will find it given in Mr. Earle's manuscript,

which is sent.
   I" need not
Isuch memoirs.
                                    Isaay mthatrtulIy  shall  be   honoured by having to communicate
                                                        glad   it
                                                                   is to come on so soon.         meant to

be at Barton at Sir C. Bunbury's, but must arrange to stay here till
zrst, so you must accept their ofl'er and gain time.
     " As soon as it is printed it may be distributed privately before the

volu""mIFenosritsteyao-nduitn.oef.        .     twenty        species  Heer  has  described---

                                    fifteen to
                                    Miocene,
I""FMoru. rKPeoyst-opflioNceewneto. n
                                                ...           has  sent  in  his  paper,  with    numerous

                                                Abbott

detailed sections, which                               have communicated to the Geological

Society. They are very good, and will probably show some details

"Idifferent from yours.
           invited him to contribute his information to you and Heer, but
this he declined. . . ."

                 * Oswald Heer, Escher-von-der-Linth, and Peter Merian.
I I4                           \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                             [CH. VIII.

                               Sir C/zarler Lyell i0 Pengelly.

    I" Octoéer 13, 1861.--- . . . mentioned to you in a former letter

how much Dr. Hooker has been struck with the able manner in which
Professor Heer had executed his task, in getting drawings and descrip
tions made of the Bovey Tracey fossils. The plates are certainly
beautiful, so admirably arranged and instructive. Dr. Hooker went
so far as to say that it would be well for us, after the publication of

Heer's paper, to consider whether we might not at the Geological
Society award the Wollaston Medal to Heer, for having so clearly
settled the age of the Bovey lignite, and given so good a botanical

Iaccount of the British flora of that Older Miocene epoch. We must,

of course, say nothing about the medal at present, but shall not

Iforget the hint.

     "When was last with Heer at Kew, Dr. Thomson, who has had
charge of the Government Botanical Garden at Calcutta, and is the
author of important works on the Indian flora, assisted us in comparing
the plants of the rich herbarium at Kew with Heer's fossils, and
Thomson told me he was much delighted with the knowledge of living
plants which Heer showed. Sir William Hooker also looked over the

twenty-one plates on the Bovey coal flora, and Dr. Booth, the botanist,
has seen Sir William since, who spoke in great praise of the drawings
and of Heer.   His whole journey
                                             has been very    successful. . . .                                               and
    "It would  certainly be more             convenient to
                                                              me if your paper                                                  If

Heer's were read one week later than the day you mention.
                               it
you   can  Isowiallrramnagkee      with Mr.  Stokes, please to let me hear                                                    from
you,  and                       a  point of  attending at the Royal Society                                                   28th

November. . . ."

                               Mrs. Pengelly to 1161'Mother.

      "Odober 26, 1861.-- . . . William is gone over to Bovey this
afternoon with the two Savans. Professor Heer speaks very little
English. He found a few small leaves new to him, but had not time
to go down into the pit. One of the leaves was myrtle. He has
found nearly fifty species in the fossils William sent him, some very
interesting ones. He is accompanied by a clergyman named Earle,
from Bath, a friend of his, and an excellent German scholar, having
aHlesoe"raOapnnrodSfoauMtunrrd.daEkyanroPlwero)le.fedsgseIoreonfEjosAycnehgdelor-Shdaiisnxeocdno. mwpitahnyus
                                                                                                                 (as well as  Professor
                                                                                                               extremely.     He gave
us a great deal of interesting information respecting the Lake-dwellings
in Switzerland, to which he has been devoting himself with much
ardour. He drew me a plan of them, and also drew me some of the
flint implements. Another day the two professors, with the addition
of Professor Merian, all came to spend the day with us. . . . They

took leave with innumerable bows, thanks, and protestations; they
laugh and say they are `Land-rats.' William says he thought he
should never have got them away from ` Hope's Nose,' they were so
astonished and delighted with everything they saw. William is very
much engaged getting his paper on the Bovey Coal ready to read

before the Royal Society in November. . . ."
1860--186I.]     SHERIDAN KNOWLES AT TORQUAY.                            115

                        Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

I"ZVoaemfier 5, 1861.-- . . . have answered all the queries in the
Iannexed except N o. 6.
                                  cannot offer to make the abstract, being
much driven for time, and I am in the press and must be out by a
certain month, or miss the season and a year. But if you will send
Iup any part of Heer's MS. which you have any difficulty with, it shall

be immediately returned with the passages written out as understand
them. My wife is accustomed to Heer's writing in French, German,
"Iand English, and will help.

         will also help in any way I can, on points where you feel
responsibility. . . ."

                        Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Mot/zer.

      "November  goth-- . . . William read his paper            wbeelflorreectehieveRd.oyaIl
Society on the   Bovey Explorations, and it was very
wish you could have seen some of the drawings, they were so beauti

fully done. One beetle's wing was discovered.
"We had a delightful letter from Professor Heer a week or two

since, enclosing a photograph, in which the three professors are depicted

in a group, and underneath the following lines, which amused us very
much, and showed more knowledge of English than we expected--

                 " ` See, my good friend Lamornian,*
                     How Escher, Heer, and Merian,
                    United strong in heart and hand,
                     Go travelling to Britain's land.'

" William is delighted with       it,                  Sir Charles Lyell, who says
                                             ."

                                                   is
                                  and so

he shall not rest till he gets one. . .

                        M's. Pengelly to lzer.Mot/zer.

"Not/ember, 1861-.-- .            We had delightfdl call few days since
                        .                                       is
                            .                                         a

                                     a
                                                a
from Sheridan Knowles, who sat good while chatting and telling us
many interesting incidents of his past life. He                 an old friend of

William's, and looking for house here, on account of the climate,
                 is               a
                                                        a
                    £
                                                            is
as he has become exceedingly infirm. He very serious. He told

me he was offered 500 lately to write tale for Magazine; but he
refused, thinking `that, having put his hand to the plough, he ought not
                                                                a
                                                                     is
to look back.' Speaking of his Plays, he said, `there something very
good in the Public after all, for that sentiment (which he read us) on
Procrastination has never yet been repeated in the Theatre without
bringing down thunders of applause but you should have heard him
                                  ."
read  it,     was very fine. . .                ;'
         it

     Pengelly continued to enjoy taking geological expeditions
from time to time, and thus relates some of the adventures which
he encountered in the course of his rambles.

                "` In reference to the name of Pengelly's house, " Lamorna."
I 16                               WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                       [Cl-l. VIII.

       " It is unnecessary to say that geologists are frequently trespassers
on other men's lands. Sometimes they remain in happy ignorance of
the fact; but, when it is made known to them, they generally find the

simple statement that they are geologists and strangers sufficient to

secure a free passage. Occasionally, however, the battle is not so

easily won ; but, if it is ever lost, it may, in all probability, be ascribed

to defective tactics.                                                         I
       "A tempting clifi' having once detained a companion and myself,
so long as to render it improbable that we should reach a neighbouring
railway station in time for the last train to the town whither we were
going, we committed the trespass of walking on the railway, by which
the distance would be shortened by fully one-half. When within
sight of the station our way was barred by- a stop-gate, at a point
where the common road crossed the rails. The gate-keeper who

presented himself, possessed a countenance so far from assuring as to

satisfy me that he would, at least, turn us back. Resolved, however,
                                addressed him thus--
                             have the power to turn us
to  m"a`kOe fa   push for  iIt,
                course, you
                               I.                                      back,      you like to do
                                                                              I
                                                     it
                                                                                   a a if
                                                    if
so; and, though we shall lose the train and be put to great inconveni
ence, we will retrace our steps at once, you say we must. If, how

ever, can read faces, you are much too good-natured                                      fellow to do
anyt"hi`nWg elol,fI        kind. Which shall              be?'
     ` `I I         the                                     the  gate  for you    this     time;  but
                    sir,'  he replied, `I'll open

don't trespass again. And let me say that, though like little butter,

    hate     grease.'  you,' said     And    we passed through.
       "                                      old fellow,' said my
      "      Thank     you're checkmated,                                        companion.

               think
    "`Never mind that. Whether butter or grease,
                                                                                  did the work
                                                                              it
                                                                                                      a

                                                                                                I
intended.'

    "A friend and once spent good deal of time, in studying very

long and fine cliff section of the Keuper, or Upper New Red Sandstone.
We had proceeded in the direction of the Dip, until we had reason to
                           I

                                                       a

believe that the famous Bone Bed was so near at hand that short
distance farther would bring to the level of the beach, so that we                I
                                      it it
should be able to investigate easily. Unfortunately, however, before                  a
                                                                                               a
this point was reached, the entire section was concealed by the debris

of great and famous landslip, which extended considerable distance
    a                                                            it,
                                                                           a
along the coast. There was nothing for                           but to ascend the cliff at

the first point at which path could be extemporized, and to seeka
the outcrop of the bed at the summit. Having gained the top of the
did, we found necessary to cross hedge, on which accordingly
                       it                                 a

got, and was about to descend on the other side, when gentleman
standing just below me, and whom we had not previously seen,

said"-- You can't come here````       !'
    "
    "        Why not                     it .' I
             This my property;                  I
                is                    and                 allow no trespassing.'
                      ?'

    " Is the land on this side your property also?'
    " `No that belongs to
             ;
    " `Well, I'm very sorry; but can't be helped.'
    "Then, turning to my companion, remarked--
1860-1861.]                  GEOLOGICAL TRESPASSERS.                                                          I I7

   I" ` We must give up the search, that's all.'
    "And jumped back to the ground I had just left--intending,

nevertheless, to get permission to cross the hedge, and, if possible, to
find the stratum we were seeking.
    "The owner of the adjoining land walked leisurely away from the
cliff, keeping near the hedge which separated us; and we did the same

Ithing on the other side.
     "" A` Atllloenwgtmh e,  ventured to say to               him--                       property;
                             sir, to congratulate             you on              your               and pardon
my adding that I really envy you--as you are the fortunate proprietor
of
    th"e`  Bone  Bed.'
           What  .Bone       Bed?'

   I"The question was asked in a tone and manner that showed a

desire for information on it; and proceeded to explain the leading
characteristics of the stratum, its position in the geological series, and

the chief fossils it yielded. It was obvious that our new acquaintance
had some knowledge of geology, and that he was interested in the
statements to which he had listened. We accordingly felt that he was

disarmed, and would speedily strike. Having put a few pertinent
questions on the subject, he pointed out a comparatively low part of

"`Ithe hedge, and said----                                                                              I wish
             think you can cross there, without doing any harm.
     ""gWo` Goidtoholduthcdiksa'iynh,eyaloneudftr                                   Good day.'
you                                                 search for the Bone Bed.      cliff, were very
                                                   thank you.'
                                                   us. We returned to the                               soon  on

the Bone Bed, and extracted a large number of fossils from it.
     "On one occasion, the discovery of fossils of a remarkable and
                                                   in a
interesting  a   character                          than  nIewintelnodcaeldit.y,  tempted me to prolong my
search to        later hour
                                                                                  At length, just before sunset,
I started to walk to my temporary home--fully eight miles distant.
IBeing familiar with the country, knew that by crossing a couple of
fields, at least a mile would be saved. That this had been frequently

done, a well-worn path assured me; and that it was a trespass was

Irendered equally clear by                                an announcement to that effect on a board

erected on a pole, at the                                 point where I diverged from the highway.

had almost cleared the distance, when, to my dismay, the farmer who
Ioccupied the land--a thorough john Bull--was standing in the path

awaiting me. Putting a bold face on the matter, marched on, as if
his presence in no way affected me, until well within earshot, when he
roar"ed`Y--ou must go back 1 '
     "`Go back! Why?'
     I" `
        `
     "
           You're trespassing.'                    extremely  sorry.'
           Trespassing! I'm
    "`Sorry! Yes, reckon. You know
                                                                                  you're  trespassing.  Sorry,

I I Ie h!"`
     "  `  What makes you say so P'
    "   `  Dedn't 'ee zee the board back there?'
        `  saw the board on the pole, if you mean that.'
     "                                                    know'd you a zid en safe
           Ees, do mean that.                                                             enough.       Ded
'ee read what's upon en P '
118                              WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                        [CH. VIII.

     "   `  My dear sir, pardon               my saying       so,   but are    you  not going     too
fast?        Should you not first            prove that        can  read?'
                                                           I
     " Oh ! oh l--that's good, that es! A man like you not able to read!
Oh ! oh l--that's uncommon good. Beats cock-fighting all to fits.
Oh ! oh! '--and his sides shook with laughter.
                                                                               knew he would not
    I"Having succeeded in making him laugh,
Iturn me back; so said--
     " ` I have to go to L----- to-night ; and that, as you know, is a long
Istep. Nevertheless, I'll go back at once if you insist on it ; but if
you'l"l   allow     mI edoton'tgos'poons, e   shall  feel much obliged.'
         ` Well,                             you'll  do much harm, 20 you           may   go  on  now

you've got 20 var; but 'tez uncommon hard to have a lot of trespassers

'pon your ground           day arter day. Ees, you may                go       on  now.'
     " ` Thank you         very much. Good evening.'
     I"When had                                                                     after me--
     "                     got   some        distance  from   him,    he shouted
                            say  I'
     I"
         ` Holloa!  it  P  '
         `What is
     "I" ` B'ant you a Methoday passon?'
         ` Oh dear, no. You flatter me too                    much.'
     "
               presume that he felt he had lost the battle, and had sent his

question after me as a parting shot."

     When on these rambles, Pengelly often cultivated his chance

companions on the road, in the hope of obtaining insight into
                                                       He thus describes one of his
local beliefs and superstitions.
conversations--

   I"During one of my visits to the famous granite pile known as the

Cheesering, near Liskeard in Cornwall, remarked to a man at work
         by--
hard"    `The       Cheesering's  very wonderful.                                                               -

                                                                   Does anybody in the district

"Iknow"     `  how  it came here, and got            piled up, in that  strange way?'
               Oh,  by all accounts, 'twas           washed there by    the flood.'

               thought,  but didn't say,             `Oh,     you   ill-used,  over-worked    flood,
            labours are   assigned to you
what                                                 !' "

        In spite of much healthy out-of-door life, Pengelly was never

at any time a good sleeper, but he bore this inconvenience with

his customary cheerfulness, and even professed to have found
Aa remedy for it.
                                  friend who knew him intimately sent the

biographer the following recipe against insomnia in Pengelly's

own words.

I Iakmnow"""soOnI` MmnnPerour.otcifdhcDeaeseydisnoMdrtehowbarDtagteesadtnhMine,totorryogyoadaoumununc.rgeddfeamlitIghathseontareiydsdfoeouetrontmoghehimsdiDmabeck--ooeoMnkyfouorsougenradna"c,aFqnsoudoranminpatuoalzfnzLclteeohd,geicwfwo.h"erall'It

to say. At last he replied--
E; .ozEmwwumo  ¢<uz defiawa  .REQQH  .m:
            mJ k__ ,

1860--186r.] VALUE OF DE MORGAN'S FORMAL LOGIC.                       119

   I" ` Well, Mr.                           the          have never read my

father's book on
            "PeFnogremllya,l  to tell  you       truth,
                              Logic."
                                       '

"`Neither have was my answer; `but the facts of the case are
        II
           I

                 it
                             a
                               I,'

                                    I
                                                           I

                                                                   I

                                                             I
these.      am sometimes troubled with sleeplessness.                 keep your

father's book on shelf in my bedroom, and when am restless at

night, get down and begin to study it. Before have got throngh

five pages  am fast asleep.     "  So  may well consider myself indebted

to your father for that book.'
I20                    \N'ILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [CH. IX.

                                             CHAPTER IX.

GEOLOGICAL LECTURES AT NORWICH; THE FOUNDATION
                 OF THE DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION.

                                                   EARLY PART OF 1862.

DURING the winter holidays, January, 1862, Pengelly delivered
a course of Geological Lectures at Norwich, of which he gives
some account in his home letters.

                                             Pengelly t0 Iris Wife.

     T" he Close, [Vorwie/z, falludijl 15, 1862.--The journey here was in
no way remarkable, nor the country interesting. The only thing which
Istruck me was Ely Cathedral, which is a striking object, and stands
well. The lecture was largely attended.                               do not think I was very
                                             uproarious in their
           and the audience by no means         give to seeing the
           supper very pleasant. To-day
Isuccessful,                                                          atopwplna.use.I

A party to
hope you will not have any great trouble about sending off the box of
specimens to Heer at Zurich."

                                             Pengelly f0 lzir I/sze.

     " wilt--Yesterday Mr. Compton called and took Mrs. Crowther

and myself to the Museum, which is a good though not a local one.
The collection of birds from every part of the world--a hobby of I. H.
Gurney--is excellent in every way, all but perfect. The collection of
                       especially elephantine, remains, is capital. In the
nmoaomn mIalwiaenn, t  on a voyage of exploration through the town, and     after
                                                                            wrote

to Heer."

                                             Pengelly t0 his Wife.

     T I" lze Close, lVorwieh, fanuary 18, 1862.--- . . . Yesterday         had a
Isecond nice ramble in the neighbourhood. Tell Trotty saw thirteen
great windmills all working away at once. We had a party here last
                                             which brought me an invitation from a Mr.
Jneisgshotppbe*fo(rheeatdhemalescteturreo,f  the Grammar School, of which Mr. Crowther,

* The Rev. Dr. Jessopp, author of" The Coming of the Friars," and other works.
1862.]      GEOLOGICAL LECTURES AT NORWICH.                      IZI

Iwith whom am now staying, is the second master) to stay at his house
         second   week, and from Mr. Field    for my   third week.
        lecture  hall last night was densely  packed.         was listened
Idurin"gThmey                                                               to

with great attention, and all seemed greatly pleased. They are not an
applausive people, but so pleased were they, that they talk of asking me

Ito give twenty-four lectures; but of course can do nothing of the
I I I Ikind 1 think lectured well; but also think have lectured better.
I am getting very lazy, not up until nine in the morning. It is very

cold."

                                           Pengelly to his Wife.

   I" The Close, Norwich, fauuary rgth.-- . . . could not very con--
Iveniently get off a letter to you this morning, hence have two days'
Ijournal to write. Yesterday, in the thick of breakfast, came my unshaven

friend mentioned in a former letter, to take me for a walk, etc. Mr.

Crowther had previously arranged for me to call on a clergyman who
had promised to show me some of the chalk-pits in his neighbourhood ;
this being communicated, to my friend  B
pany me, and we accordingly started.    The    , he volunteered  to accom   I
                                              clergyman joined    us, and
saw several good `sandpipes ' and `potstones,' both of which puzzled
me much. We, the trio, then started under B------'s (the unshaven
one's) guidance to see some of the principal antiquities in the place;
they are interesting, but not pictorial in any way. The town has no
architectural pretensions of any kind, and indeed, of a mean appeara is,

ance. We then started for Caistor Castle, fine old Roman ruin;              I it

must have been large and strong place. Nothing now remains but                     .
        I
                           a

                            I
the outer walls, which are all but entirely covered by greensward. On

B--'sthe way picked up what believe to be flint implement among aa

heap of flints, for road repairs. We returned to           to tea, where
we were joined by Mr. Miller, his wife and daughter. Having passed a

pleasant evening, returned to my quarters accompanied by my friend,
            .       extremely kind and intelligent, as well as

                 II

                               is

                             I
who, though rough,

hospitable. . . suppose shall go to Mr. Jessopp's on Tuesday.

have been extremely comfortable, and very much at home with Mr. and
Mrs. Crowther, both of whom are extremely kind. . .
                                                       ."

The flint implement mentioned in the last letter was submitted

for examination to Mr. [now Sir John] Evans, F.R.S., etc.,
undoubtedly the highest authority on this subject. Two letters

concerning  were received from him some months later, but
I

         a
              a

                   it

                                I
                                   I
                                                       I is

                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                     it

                                                                                                            it
for the sake of the continuity of the subject, they are given now.

                    john Evans, to Pengelfy.

" Nash Jllills, Heme! Hompsted, fune 4, I862.----It some time since
saw flint implement, which was informed had been found by you
on heap of stones near Norwich; but my impression
                                                           that was

not shown me by Dr. Falconer.      should like to see again before
giving any decided opinion upon it; but as far as remember (I)

certainly was an implement, but (2) not of the Drift period, but rather
an unfinished or unground celt of the so-called Stone period, of which
122                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                             [CH. IX.

I(3) specimens are found all over England, but about which (4) should
Iflike to refresh my

it is in London, I

send me a rough
             memory before making                          any very solemn affidavit.
             would look at it again;
                                                            or if not, you could perhaps
            sketch of it. I am off
                                                           into the north for a week or

Iten days on Friday, so do not be surprised at not receiving a very speedy
answer to your letter, should you write.                   hope to send you by this
post an account of some of the further discoveries of the implements in
IfltIohoehkopDoeruiftmt,faoayrn. dbeaulssoeefvuaelrfefIworccadonipstiberiesbuootiffonat,heplsaostelitghhoatftestptheeoiurpsleevamrtiooauyysokufno,ormpwrsa,wyhwadhtoicnth'ot

scruple to write to me."

                          john Evans to Pengelly.

     "Nash Mlls, H'emel Ifempsted, fune 18, 1862.--I arrived at home
                                                           of giving you           mNyorofoplikn.ionI,
                                                            you found in
Ilast night, and

valeat quantum,
            take the first opportunity
            about the flint implement
have examined it carefully, and the conclusion at which arrive is that
it does not belong to the Drift period, but that it must be classed among
the implements of the so-called Stone period. The general form is very
much that of the ordinary stone ` celt,' adapted for cutting at the broad
      a portion, however, of the edge
end;  not sure whether there are not                       has been broken or worn away.
                                                           some traces of its having been
I am
ground on some parts of its surface, especially just below ` Caistor' on
the label, where there seems to be a tongue of polished surface between

Ithe places where two chips have been struck off. Judging from the

appearance, should say that the v`celt' had been lying upon or near

the surface for a considerable time in rather a sandy soil. It seems to

be altered superficially to a considerable depth, and the numerous rusty
marks upon it testify to its having frequently been brought into contact

with the plough and harrow,   whose rude assaults          its tough constitution
has enabled it to withstand.                               and sent it to London,
                               I have packed it up
to be forwarded by Great Western Rail to Torquay, and hope it will
Ireach you safely. Some time, when you are coming up to London,
Iwish you would arrange to run down here for a night.
                                                                                   have several
Ithings that think would interest you, and my collection of the Drift
implements is now very extensive, to say nothing of those of the later
Stone period. With many thanks for the sight of your specimen."

                          Pengelly to his VVz/e.
     I" The Close, 1Vorwieh, fanuary 2 lst. . . . Yesterday
                                                                                   went to

breakfast with a Mr. Crompton, once a Unitarian Minister, a brother
in-law of George Dawson's. Mr. and Mrs. Crompton took me a long
Iwalk to a village named Thorpe (taking an artesian well by the way),

where had an opportunity of seeing the Norwich Crag for the first
time. It is just a bed of millions of shells, most of them recent species.
I thought   ohfommeakflinagsheadcoblelefoctrieonm, e.buIt  the remembrance of
                                                           am glad, nevertheless,  over-gorged
drawers at                                                                         to have seen

Ithem. We dropped in at a charming place and took luncheon, as we

quite intended to do. . . . am very happy here, but shall be very glad

to get home. . . ."
1862.]           GUEST OF THE REV. DR. jESSOPP.                                                          123

                 Pengelly to Iris Wzfe.

I    "Rev. A. j'essojfp's, Cathedral Close, Norwit/z,fanuary 22,                                         1862.-- . . .
                                                                                                          My stories
   have now passed my first day here, and am quite at home.
I Ihelp me amazingly.
                 have done but little to-day. Yesterday left
a card on Sedgwick, who is Canon of this Cathedral; to-day I have
Ireceived a note from him stating that he was unable to call on me, as
he had to leave  by an early  train.   In the afternoon took Mr.                                         and Mrs.
Jessopp to the   spot where                                                                              is really
                              I found  my flint implement, which                                         This
         a sensation, but we had not the good luck
making   Mr. Firth, a leading surgeon here whom     to find  another.                                    met,
evening                                                      previously
                                                    I had
I Icalled on me to offer to take me to Cromer in his carriage, in order to
see the cliffs.  do not know how it will eventuate, as have scarcely a

Iday open for it. Mr. Firth and some others subsequently came in to
spend the evening, and a merry one we certainly had.                                                     really never

saw anything so truly hospitable as the Norwich people are."

     Professor Sedgwick was now a great invalid, as the following
extract from one of his letters will show.

    I" Wednesday, 7 a.nz., fanuary 22, 1862.-- . . . am grieved much
I Ithat cannot call on you, but am packing, and about to start by an
I Iearly train for Cambridge. Some one told me that you are about to

give lectures here. Had remained could not have attended them
IwrinehsitccohInsaeImqugmerneucacethlyobdferttehtaeedrc.; onbOudtintiIoynaomuorfgmowiyanyghebbaaadcc.kk
Ihalt at Cambridge, and                  Thank God, by complete

                                         to attend an examination,
                                         you will, hope, make a

                              shall be very glad to show you my

museum. . . ."

                                       Pengelly to his I/Vz'fe.

    I"Rev. A.fess019p's, .Norwie/z, fanuary 22, 1861-- . . . have done

next to nothing to-day besides delivering my third lecture ; the audience
very large, and my lecture of two hours' duration was listened to with
very marked attention. Mr. Gunn,` a clergyman of this district, well
known as a geologist, called to-day and has arranged to take me home

Iwith him, some ten miles off, after my lecture next Friday, and to keep

me there until Tuesday, when return for my fourth lecture. . . ."

                 Pengelly to his Vsze.

   I I" The Close, ZVorwie/z, fanuary 24, 1862.--- . . . This morning
went to Yarmouth, and saw that dear fellow ` the Sea.'                                                   was delighted
to see him, and he capered and bounded right rampantly. My audience
to-night was an enormous one. Mr. Gunn and Mr. King were both there.
Mr. Firth, the surgeon, takes me over to Cromer to-morrow, where Mr.
Gunn joins us, and on Monday Mr. King is to join us also. . . . Nothing
Ican be kinder than the Jessopps.      Excuse haste, it is near midnight,

and have to be up at six. . . ."

        * The Rev. John Gunn, M.A., who died May 28, 1890, at the age of 88.
I24                 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                           [Cl-I. IX.

                          Pengelly to lu's Wife.

     " Cromer, Norfolk, funuary 26, 1862.---- . . . Dr. Firth and his son
took me from Norwich yesterday about nine, and by aid of their
fine pair of horses brought me here soon after one. As soon as possible
we took another pair of horses                                                        of
Ocean Telegraphs plunges into   and   got to  bWuteywbhoautrnseh, allwhIesraey  one  the  the
                                 the  sea;                                                in
                                                                                of
terminable beach of flints P What an awful amount of time must have

been spent in denuding the vast body of chalk in which the now liberated
flints formerly reposed. We walked under the cliff about four miles
and saw some of the finest sections in the world, sections of ` Drift' con
taining mountains of fragments of chalk transported from afar, yet quite
angular. It was really overwhelming in the questions which it suggested.
We then returned here to a late dinner, and, that meal over, we had a visit
from a blind Captain Wyndham, brother of the General,* a Mr. Birch
surgeon here, and a Captain King of the Coast Guard. We remain
here to-night, and all being well, reach Norwich to-morrow night. This

must be a charming place in the summer. . . ."

                          Pengelly t0 his Wife.

     "ZVorwie/z, fanuary 27, 1862.~-- . . . Yesterday we had a very
pleasant walk in the neighbourhood of Cromer, and saw much

geological fact which will, I think, long live in my memory. It is
Iscarcely possible to conceive of the all but endless number of merchant
ships constantly passing along the coast.              think I never had so great
an idea of Britain's Commercial Marine. This morning we left about
ten for Mundsley, a village on the coast, where we spent an hour;
then on to Happisburgh, where we remained four hours; in this period
we walked to Eccles to see the remnant of a church which the sea

has taken possession of.
     I." Next we dined, and then drove home, Mr. Firth taking me to his
house to lodge.     have very greatly enjoyed my turn out, indeed it is
Ione of the most prominent of the many pleasing things with which this

lecture engagement has been associated, but shall be delighted to get

home again. . . ."

                          Pengelly to 121': Wife.

     "1111'. Field's, Surrey Street, [Vorwie/z, fauuary 28, 1862.---- . . .

IOn going, to-day, to Mr. Jessopp's found a letter from Alfred. He
Igives a good account of himself. At one o'clock attended the annual
meeting of the Norfolk Archaeological Society, and was drawn out
Ito make a statement about the Brixham Cavern. On going to Mr.
Jessopp's   for a dinner-party given  Iinammyglhaodnotuhre    found your welcome
letter and  enclosure from Heer.                            parcel has come from
Heer. We had Mr. Gunn and Mr. King at dinner, with some others.
IThere was a great crowd                                              of the         Earth.
                                                       the Antiquity  subject
It excited much interest,                              cheered : the                 seems
                          at   mIywleacstugrreeatolyn
                          and

entirely new to them. After the lecture came here (Mr. Field's) for

                               * An old friend.
1862.] NORFOLK GEOLOGISTS--BABBAGE'S TROUBLES.       125

the first time. I never saw people so hospitable as they are here ; they
Inever seem to think they have done enough for one.  conclude now,
I Ias have very little time, it being near midnight, and have to be up

very early. . . ."

                    Pengelly to his Wife.

     "Norwich, fauuary 29, 1862.-- . . . This morning Mr. Field and
I were up early, got some coffee, and drove off to breakfast with Mr.
King at Saxlingham, where we arrived about 9.30, in time to see the

drawing~room fire lighted, and to welcome the family down as they
successively descended from their dormitories. When all assembled,
there were Mr. and Mrs. King, and their daughter, and Mr. Walpole.
Mrs. King is as enthusiastic a geologist as her husband, as is their
daughter also, a girl about twelve years old. Mr. Walpole is the
brother of the Earl of Orford. We spent the greater part of the day
looking over Mr. King's capital collection of Norfolk fossils, in which
are some unique mammalian remains. After luncheon we went to
Isee a few chalk pits, and then home to dinner. In the evening there
was a party and a good deal of pleasant chat.    am getting very
desirous of returning home, which really seems ungrateful, as nothing
        kinder than the people are  to me; but   still home is home, and
can be  to see it and all its dear  inmates, in  about seventy-two hours

I hope

from this; it is now about midnight. . . ."

     The last letter is good evidence that, in the midst of congenial
scenes, hospitable entertainment, and the pressure of continuous.

work, Pengelly's thoughts and longings turned constantly home

wards. Although extremely fond of society, he was not of that

temperament which causes a man to find one place as good as.
another. The scientific meetings in London attracted him
strongly, but in a letter to his wife he speaks of being glad that

he has not to live there, as, in that case, he fears he would
be less master of his own time, and thereby debarred from her

society. When away, scarcely anything was allowed to interfere
with his daily letter home. His aged mother (now a widow)
paid him and his wife long visits every year. Although she was.
naturally very proud of her son's scientific work and attain

ments, she felt too nervous ever to`go and hear him lecture at

Torquay.
     The following letter from Babbage, gives an example of the

unfortunate position, in which a scientific man is placed, when.

he has a reason to believe that his discoveries are unjustly
claimed by or assigned to others.

                                          C. Babbage to Pengelly.

   I"Dorset Sireet, Manehesier Square, May 27, 1862.---- . . . enclose

copy of the abstract of my papers on the ` Action of Ocean Currents.'
126                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.                       [Ca Ix.

   I"You will                                                    of the

correctness of                                                   I have
             perceive that     have not raised the     question
             the `geological   doctrine of outliers,'  but that

shown that another admitted geological cause may `sometz'mes' (page

3) produce appearances which have been attributed to subsequent
denudation.

   I"Outliers may either be produced during the deposition of a

stratum--or long subsequently; but have not attempted to point
out cases of each kind.

     I"Geologists generally are but slightly acquainted with physical
science. Thus, when            published my theory of the doctrine of

isothermal surfaces in the abstract of a paper on the Temple of
Serapis examined by me in 1828, the geologists ignored the discovery.
IBut when at a later period Sir John Herschel arrived at the same

conclusions which first published for him in the First Edition of The
Ninth Bridgewater Treatise, the Geological Society republished a few
days after in their abstracts that portion of his letter which contained
his view of the subject, without any referenee to my publication several
years before in a former volume of their proceedings.

     "This tendency first to ignore and then to transfer intellectual

property from an unpopular to a popular author has met with con

siderable support from geologists.

     "Sir Roderick Murchison, in his `Siluria,' seems to wish to make it
a joint discovery of mine and my friend's.
     "Other
have been     geologists have   followed in his track, and    foreign writers
             misled; until at
                               last I was myself present    at a meeting of
the Geological Society at which the theory of isothermal surfaces was
assigned entirely to Herschel. Neither the president nor any other
Imember corrected the error, and it would so have appeared in the

printed proceedings had not mentioned the subject to the secretary,

"I Iwho took upon himself the responsibility of mentioning my name.
            have added a note to Stephenson's opinion, which wish to be

inserted, with my name attached, if you wish it. . . ."

     Pengelly's correspondence was now so large that it is

marvellous how a man, busily occupied as he was, could keep it

in hand. Strangers wrote constantly, asking his views on every
variety of subject. That many of these letters were not of much

interest may be judged from his remarking occasionally that

the postmen had "brought him several envelopes, which did not
deserve to be called letters." In sending replies, he was greatly
assisted by his wife, who also helped him in a variety of ways,

especially in translating foreign scientific works and papers, and
acting as interpreter with scientific foreigners whom they met
at home and abroad, for he was no linguist. He laughingly
accounted for the inability of the French people to understand
him, by asserting that in passing through the capital his accent

had become too Parisian to be understood in the Provinces.
[862.]  CORRESPONDENCE ON HOME MATTERS.                                                                                     127

     His love of fun was infectious, and made him a pleasant
companion in every class of society. An inveterate punster,

and endowed with a keen sense of the ridiculous, his humour

was invariably kindly and genial.                                                                                        `

                                     Pengelly to lzis Wife.

   I I"Lamorna, fune 5,

some letters from Dr.
                               1862. . .  .  Since last wrote you have had
                               Falconer.
                                             I enclose them; they will tell their
Iown story. Falconer's first was in reply to one sent him, informing
Ihim that had given up                all thought  of London    for the present. It is
                                     plates,* but
mI owsitshevedxinmguchabotuot   the                I confess I  feared it from the first.
                               have  been in town to have
                                                                looked after my paper
Ilast night. I hope they treated me mercifully. I am progressing very
satisfactorily with my collection.                 have finished the Sponges, and

am perhaps half-way through the Corals; my last entry was number
I576. This post has brought me a letter from Falconer, and also one
from Miss Coutts.              must send Falconer's to her to-day. Heer insists
on seventeen plates. T. Hunton has been in to supper, and we have

had a nice chat. . . ."

                                     Pengelly to lzis lVife.

    I"Lamorna, fune 18, 1862.

letter to you on this occasion.
                                          .  . . Here  goes,                             hope, for the last
                                             Be sure   to write me, by return if
Ipossible, to say by what train am to expect you. Tell Miss Forster
is,as but who to be Mrs.
        I                                          that observe am not invited to
             is                      I                          a
                                              ,
                II                                 ."             I
the wedding, and that                Ifam so far from being vindictive that will
do her two kind acts.                          II
                                         she will send me telegram just to say
                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                I
at what moment the happy couple intend to tear themselves away from
their sorrowing friends for their journey, will throw one of my oldest

slippers at my wheelbarrow.                  would throw at the carriage were
                                                              it

at hand, but am not without hopes that she will be nearly as much

benefited by the plan propose. . .

                                       Pengelly to his I/sze.
     "Lamorna, fnne 18, 1862.-- . . . The party at Miss Hopperton's
school went off well. There was crowd; there was the Mademoiselle,'
the Fraulein,' C. Fowler, and myself. The visitors included Mr. and
Mrs. Pitcairn, Dr. Edersheim,1' and lots of other folk, all very good
and proper. Plenty Of music, instrumental and vocal."

                                Pengelly to his Wzfe.
     "London, july 3, 1862.--- . . reached this duly yesterday.

Found Dr. Falconer from home. Went on to Miss Coutts at once; found
her cordial as ever, though in great bustle for her party in the evening.

It said, and believe truly, that there were thousand guests. The

Duke d'Aumale was there, also Murchison, Falconer, Lankester,

          * Illustrating Professor Heer's paper for the Royal Society.
            Rev. Alfred Edersheim, D.D., afterwards Greenfield lecturer at Oxford.
`
                                                        a
                                                                                                                      `

is

   1'

           I
                                                                        .
                                    I
                                                                                      a
I 28                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                     [Cm IX.

IGI lakdnsetwonea, ndBohwardingp, leaLasanndtseecrh,atsE.wWith..Cooke, Fowler, and many others
                                                                       slept in Stratton Street last
                      on to Holly Lodge
              to go                                             to-night. Miss
               until  Tuesday, which                            shall probably
Inight, and am                                                                          Coutts  wishes
                                                                                                am in
me to remain                                                                            do. I
great haste now, and hope to write you a better letter to-morrow. . . ."

                           Pengelly to his I/sze.

    "Holly Lodge, fuly 4, r862.--- . . . Yesterday I spent the greater
Ipart of the day at Falconer's, where breakfasted. We went thoroughly
Iover my Bovey paper.      am to take it down to Torquay with me, and
I IHeer's also, for am to prepare both. In the afternoon called on
IDr. Skey, and

to accompany
              finding that he was            also               oguotinIg    to Holly Lodge, agreed
              him ; but before we            set                           went to Iermyn Street and
Ihad a good chat with some of the men,
                                                                                         am sorry to
find he is about to leave the Museum.                                                   get home on
                                                                Ichiefly Salter.

                                                                . . . hope to
I ITuesday, but doubt my being able to go to the `Field Club.'
Ishall try to get to the Exhibition to-day. Yesterday was very wet;

this morning gives promise of a fine day, which hope may be realized,
as Miss Coutts is to have a great Horticultural Fete here. All the

world is expected. . . ."

                           Pengelly to his Vsze.

      "International Exhibition, fuly 4, 1862.-- . . . Yesterday, having
Ireceived an invitation from my friend, E. W.' Cooke (the Royal

Academician), to dine with him, left Holly Lodge as soon as the
Flower Show opened, so as to secure a peep at
                                                                           I            and went to the
                                                                                   it,
Exhibition. At 5.30 went to Cooke's, where found every evidence
a
           a

                 is
                        a

                    I

                                 it a
                                         is
of successful artist and man of great taste. You would enjoy going
over his house greatly;                      a perfect museum of everything old and
interesting. Fossils, pictures, old furniture, antiquities generally; his

garden, too,  gem, beautifully and expensively made the most of.
He had rather large party, among them Ward the botanist.
                                                                                                have
given up all thought of the meeting on Haldon. . .                         ."

                           Pengelly to his Wife.                                      I

      "Holly Lodge, fuly                                                                           is
                           8,  1862.--~ . . . This, in all probability,                                to

be my last letter to you on this occasion. On Saturday morning two
carriages left this for the International Exhibition. The first contained
Miss Coutts, the Bishop of Cape Town and his wife (Mrs. Gray) and
myself; the second, Mr. St. john* (author of `Life in the Forests of
the Far East,' i.e. Borneo, etc.) and Mr. Johnson (nephew of Sir
      it

                                  a

                                     I

                                                       it
                                                                  is

                                                                               a

                                                                   I5
                                                                                    I.
Brooke).

     "The Exhibition opens on Saturdays at 12, and we got there at
11.30 so as to have private view; this indulgence had been granted
to Miss Coutts. She left early; but remained there until p.m., be
lieving would be my last visit. Truly
                                                                           splendid thing.      cannot

      * Now Sir Spencer St. John, English Ambassador at Stockholm.
1862.] FOUNDING OF THE DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION.                       129

particularize firrther than that the machinery'astounded and even
awed me, and the Colonial Courts showed me the germs of future
Iempires.
Imore than

to this to
 saw nothing in  the   Picture department       which  pIlearesetudrnmede
`Eastward Ho.'        met many people           knew.
                  I
dinner, where I  met the Bishop of Oxford and his son;
Ithe former is the most able and agreeable man in company ever met,
the latter the most free-and-easy. Yesterday the Bishop preached here
a missionary sermon, very clear, very learned, and eloquent in a very
high degree, but over the heads of ordinary hearers. With this excep
Ition yesterday was a very quiet day. There is to be a great gathering

of Antiquaries in Stratton Street to-night, hence stay over until t0
morrow. . . ."

During the summer of 1862 the first meeting of the Devon

shire Association was held at Exeter. The idea of its forma

tion had been originated by Pengelly, who received important
assistance from his friends, Sir john Bowring, Mr. Spence Bate,

and the Rev. W. Harpley. He had been for some time
anxious to form a County Association for the promotion of

Scientific and Literary objects, but at first received little en

couragement even from some of those who afterwards became

his colleagues. He was not, however, easily discouraged by

difficulties, even though they might appear insurmountable to

others. He worked and waited, and was rewarded by the

eminently satisfactory character of the opening meeting at
Exeter, under the able Presidency of Sir john Bowring. The

gathering, though small, was distinguished by able and most

interesting papers, and animated discussions, and the Associ

ation soon became recognized beyond the county of Devon as
a centre of intellectual life and work.

Pengelly, besides contributing numerous papers, managed

all the financial work with characteristic caution and success.

It is almost needless to say that his connection with the Associa

tion, as with the other societies in which he was interested, was

purely honorary, although his labours connected with it involved

the sacrifice of a large portion of his time, inasmuch as they

necessitated his attending to numerous details which, though

apparently trifling in themselves, were indispensable to the

success of each meeting. Many of his friends regretted the

absorption of so much of his leisure, but he himself was always
anxious to devote any spare moments to the promotion of

scientific and literary objects in his adopted  c"oTuhntey.Lignites  and

    At the first meeting he read a paper on

                                                       K
I30          \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                        [Cm IX.

Clays of Bovey Tracy," and "The Age of the Dartmoor

Granites."                                                                        -

     Pengelly's letters describing the Exeter Meeting, with accounts

of the various papers read, are nearly all missing; but one, giving
a sketch of the social character of the gathering, has been

preserved.

             Pengelly to lzis Vsze.

     " Exeter.-- . . . Many of the papers were short, and elicited good
discussions. We sat until about half-past four. The audience was small,
as there were the more popular attractions of a Bazaar and Flower
Show. At 5.30 we dined together, and had an ample supply of food
and fun. . . . After dinner there were some decent speeches; and at

half-past eight we went in a goodly party to Lady Bowring's tea-table,
where Sir John christened me Mr. Pungelly. Friday was so wet that

Iwe had to give up the excursions, and so got home early in the
Iafternoon.
             am happy to say mother is quite well now, though sorry
to lose Alfred, who has been extremely good and attentive to her. He
left us this morning in good spirits. . . _"

     The Rev. W. Harpley, the valued Honorary                          General
Secretary, gives the following description of Pengelly's               work in
connection with the Association?"

     " In 1862, he started the Devonshire Association for the Advance
ment of Science, Literature, and Art, of which he was President in
1867--8. Until the last few years he was the best-known figure at the
Annual Meetings of the Association, and for a considerable period he
regularly contributed papers upon a variety of subjects. Not only did
the plan of a County Association, on the lines, to a certain extent, of
the British Association, originate in his fertile brain, but it has been
chiefly owing to his instrumentality and careful and judicious organiza
tion, that the Association has grown and prospered. He managed it
financially, until physical infirmities compelled him to relinquish the

work."

     Another of the members has kindly written an excellent
account of the objects and scope of the Association.

" A Reminiscence of Me late I/Villiam Pengell , RR.S., in lzis conneefion
      with the Devonslzire Assoriation .- 6] a [Member 0f the Assoeiatian, of
       near!) thirty years' standing.

   "It is   cAosmsmocoinaltyionu"ndoewrsetsood1ts  that what   is now  known as "The
                                                   origin to  a small  group of men of
Devonshire

                                                                       is,
                                                                               a
scientific and literary culture, resident at Plymouth. This in sense,

            T* ram-anions of 112:Devonrlzire Armrz'ation, July, 1894.
                                                                     J" Mag~wl¢é m; 1

   1862.]         OBJECTS OF THE DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION.                        13 1

   correct; but, beyond      controversy, the first idea of  the scheme emanated
   from Mr. Pengelly.        At that time, however--and
                                                             I am referring to the
   year 1861--the southern part of Devonshire was not unprepared for
   some such development of intellectual activity. Plymouth had its
   established local institution, publishing its Transattions. Exeter was
   distinctly a literary centre, although the atmosphere of a cathedral city
   was not then altogether favourable, it was supposed, to scientific investi
   gation. And Torquay, with its leisured, if cosmopolite, circles had
   already its Natural History Society, of which Mr. Pengelly had been
   one of the founders.

        "Some organization on a more comprehensive scale was now aimed
   at, and at the right moment Mr. Pengelly, a born administrator, whose

   scientific attainments had already been recognized on a wider field, and
   who had acquired a practical knowledge of the working of the British
   Association as one of the honorary secretaries of the Geological Section,
   conferred with Sir John Bowring and Mr. Spence Bate, who warmly
   seconded him; and the Devonshire Association, for the advancement

   of science, literature, and art, was fairly launched. There were pre
   liminary discouragements, as of course; and Mr. Spence Bate had

   almost feared that the bantling, as he facetiously called which had
   been cradled in Plymouth, would never emerge to breathe the larger   it,
        o"f                                                                  a
   air       the  county.
             The  professed
                             objects  of the Association were:  `To  give       stronger
   impulse and more systematic direction to scientific inquiry in Devon
   shire, and to promote the intercourse of those who cultivate science,is a
   literature, or art in different parts of the county.' The form which

   the Association ultimately took, its aims and methods, from-which            it
   has since departed only in details, was modest imitation of those of
                                                a

   the British Association, only with the addition of literature and art to
   its objects, and the limitation of its sphere of action to the county of

'  Devon. Science was to           be at the    forefront; but latterly the tendency
   has been rather towards          historical  and archaeological subjects. This,

   however, has been probably due merely to fluctuation of taste or
                                                   a

                                                          ].

                                                                                     a

                                                                             I
   thou"ghOt,f  that to      be  expected from time to time.            only    few,
                the group    of  original promoters of the Association

   believe, now survive, including W. Vicary, F.G.S., Brooking Rowe,
   F.L.S., and the Rev. William Harpley, from the beginning to the present
   time the General Honorary Secretary of the Association, who by his
   eminent services has secured and retained the esteem and confidence of

   the members generally.
           "The first general meeting of the Association took place at Exeter
   in August, 1862, under the presidency of Sir john Bowring, man of
                                                   it

                                                       I

                                                                     a
                                                                             a
   eminent ability, of broad sympathies, and of encyclopaedic knowledge,

   with reputation as philologist almost European.              am not sure that
           a                 is a

   the meeting was not looked upon somewhat askance by few persons
   of light and leading in the city. Be that as
                                                                may, ten years later,
   amidst the same surroundings, the annual gathering of the members took
   place under the presidency of the bishop of the diocese.
        "Six papers only were read at the first meeting, contrast to the
                                                                a

   six-and-twenty which now about the average number; but the promise
   of the development and success of the Association was assuring. In
I32  \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                                                       [Cl:t. IX.

accordance with its migratory programme, the Association, in the follow
ing years, held its meetings in different towns in the county, gathering

new members everywhere and fresh interest as to its proceedings.

The influence of these meetings, while otherwise socially agreeable, has

been most marked in stimulating researches connected with local history,
archaeology, or science, which would otherwise have been neglected,
and in directing attention to objects of interest which would have been

overlooked or lost. Such obligations are rarely acknowledged; but, if
all paid their due, many of us would have to account to the memory of
William Pengelly for a new interest in life.
     "Without any fixed rule, the president of the Association of the year
has been usually selected on account of his recognized distinction in his
own department, whether of science, literature, or art; and it is to the
credit of Devonshire that on several occasions the choice has fallen
within the limits of the county. At the Barnstaple Meeting, in the
year 1867, Mr. Pengelly, who had been recently elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society, filled the ofiice with considerable éclat. His inaugural
address, being mainly a brilliant and lucid review of the then existing
knowledge of the geology of Devonshire, was listened to, as the demon
tshtreat"iAosInnsocotihfaetaioymne,aarstea1rt8,76twhietahninuasnlttmaenriasctteaio,knaIblwebaesliienmvteear,deesot.ifn
                                                                                                                         one   of the bye-laws of
                                                                                                                        Mr.
                                                                                                                              Pengelly, to which
we had been rapidly drifting. The subjects of the papers to be offered

to the Association were henceforth strictly limited to those relating to

Devonshire. It might have been, and probably was, doubted by some
not having the advantage of being Devonians, whether, with this restric
tion, the contributions to the paper-list were likely to be of sufficient
volume to do credit to the Association. But the justification was the
immediate advance that took place in the number of members from

three hundred and fifty-six to four hundred and seventy-one within the

next two years, and the obvious satisfaction with which the localization

of the aims of the Association was received. Since that time nearly
thirty original papers, including reports of committees, have been, on

the average, annually read before the Association, all relating to Devon
shire; and there as yet, no sign`of any diminution in the rate of
a
                                     is,

                                           a

                                 I

                                                                         a
                                                                                         `
                                                                                                                          a
their production.

    "At the annual gathering of the members there was perhaps no
gratification so much looked for, when Mr. Pengelly was present, than

the discussions elicited by the reading of the several papers. A
characteristic of Mr. Pengelly on these occasions will be at once
remembered. There was no mistaking the evident zest with which,
after the reading of paper, he initiated, as he generally did, a dis
cussion thereon. He took his part with unfailing geniality, and his
views upon the value of facts, upon the importance of precision of
language, and upon the folly of hasty generalizations, were pretty sure

to come to the fore. Mentally am disposed to bracket him with a
famous Oxford tutor who lived to be hundred years of age, and who,

on being asked what oracular advice he could give to his pupils as
result of his long experience, replied, Verify your references.'
  "An extra work at the Association which extended over period

of eight years, has been the translation, extension, and printing of the
                                                      "KI-hm"? 71`.»- as- 13:35 a ~  ,5 .

1862-]        \VORK OF THE DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION.                       I33

Domesday record so far as it related to Devonshire. Mr. Pengelly had
grave misgivings as to the strain which this undertaking might have
upon the finances of the Association. But there can be no doubt that

the Association has done nothing more creditable ; and it may be hoped
that the great cost of producing the two handsome volumes of the
Devonshire Domesday will be recuperated as the value and importance
of the work--one of the bases of the history of our land and people--

become better known.

     "With regard to the quality of the papers contributed to, and subse
quently printed in the Transactions of the Association, it is not perhaps
too much to say that those of few local associations of a similar
character possess a higher general level of ability or interest. N otwith
standing the indulgent censorship of the Secretary, there are not many
that can be said to sink below mediocrity. It would be invidious in
the present connection to specify the many of absolute excellence ; but
there can be no question that the series of geological and palaeonto
logical papers which, during a period of more than twenty years, were
contributed by Mr. Pengelly, are a monument to his accurate and
recondite knowledge of his facts and of his peculiarly happy manner
of treating and expounding them, and also a testimony of the permanent
value of the work which he left behind him. To this general estimate
it may be added that the Transactions have been not infrequently
quoted for proofs and evidences of the original research by some of our

mos"t   eminent writers.         of  Mr.  Pengelly's  active connection  with the

        In the last few years

Association, he contributed a series of three papers on a subject that
led him into an entirely new domain of study, that of comparative
biography. The papers were written with remarkable acumen and

minute criticism which might have been expected from the writer, and
were certainly read, and will continue to be read, by not a few with

appreciative   interest.  sure,  only one  feeling  of regret  among  the members
     "There
              was, I am
of the society with whom Mr. Pengelly had been for so many years
associated, when he withdrew to the retirement which increasing years
and infirmities imposed upon him. He had finished his work. Yet,
to the last, he retained an almost pathetic interest in the Devonshire
Association, which he had founded and for which he had done so

much.
I 34  WILLIAM PEN GELLY.                                               [CH. X.

      CHAPTER X.

      ELECTED A FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

      SEPTEMBER 1862 AND 1863.

IN the autumn of 1862 Pengelly interested himself in the
disposal of Mrs. Griffith's beautiful and valuable collection of
sea-weeds, which Miss Coutts was about to present to Kew.

     Later in the year he attended the British Association which

met at Cambridge ; an additional interest was attached to this
visit to the University, as his son Alfred was soon to begin his

college life there.

     In 1863 Pengelly was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society,
and though he usually cared very little for honours and distinc

tions, was naturally gratified that his scientific services should
have been recognized, by what Sir Joseph Hooker once admirably
described as "so high an honour as Fellowship of the Royal
Society, the only one of the kind in England that is limited as
to the number annually elected, and selective in principle." *

    At the close of July of this year the second annual meeting

of the Devonshire Association was held at Plymouth, under the

presidency of C. Spence Bate, F.R.S. Pengelly, who com
municated a paper on "The Chronological Value of the Red

Sandstones and Conglomerates of Devonshire," was greatly
encouraged by the complete success of the gathering, and the
evidences afforded of the interest in science which it had already

fostered in the county.

      Pengelly t0 lzis Wife.

     " r, Slratton Street, September  6, 1862.--Yesterday    Miss  Coutts  took
me to the banking house to see        the sea-weeds, and   havmg   given   them
some attention, she returned home, and I went on to Tennant's, Somerset

      * Presidential Address to the Royal Society, November 30, 1878.
              _ .__-----_-~---_-- _. < 7.. c,'----~~-----w_f`Tr .__~-.`..-'_ _-.__ _._ 1.,

1862--1863.]      SIR C. LYELL AND DARWINISM.                       135

House, and jermyn Street; saw Ramsay at the last, and had a good
chat with him. Then to Kew, to see Sir William Hooker about the

sea-weeds, and there I remained until it was quite time to return to
dress for dinner. Sir William was extremely kind, and took me
                                        and museums ; it
through all   I  the gardens, houses,   at the head of the  is a fine affair truly.
Soon after        called, a gentleman,                      hospital at Trinidad,

called also; and we got on capitally. After dinner we went to see

I ILord Dundreary. The piece is stupid and absurd, but the part of Lord

Dundreary is acted to perfection, and think never laughed more in

my life."

                                Pengelly to his W'ife.

     "London, September 9,        1862.--Yesterday, after a   late breakfast,     I_
called on Lyell, and had a                                   his new book,
                                  long chat with him. In                       he
says he is ` going the "whole hog " both in the Antiquity of Man, and
                 and if                                             he thinks
Darwinism,                anIy  man ever deserved excommunication,  book will
he certainly      will.'        did not gather from him when the

Iappe"ar. then went off to the British Museum, and whilst talking with the

brothers Woodward, in their private room, Falconer came in; he was

very pleasant, and we engaged to go together to Somerset House.

    "My business at the museum was to take S. P. Woodward's opinion

as to the best museum to which to send the collection of British shells

made by Mrs. Griffiths and purchased by Miss Coutts. Woodward
Istrongly desired to have them there, and referred me to Owen.
                                                                    took

my fish `scale' with me, and got the opinion of Mr. Davies, a good
ichthyologist, on it. He decided it to be a scale of .P/eyllopeles eon
eentrz'eus, a fish characteristic of the uppermost old red sandstone of
Glenburnie in Scotland. The fact is a very important one in its
bearings, and furnishes me with matter for a paper for the British

Association. It is so important that Owen took a note of it at once.
Owen also wishes to have the shells there, in the event of their getting

I Ia grant for the removal of the museum into a larger building. Falconer ,

and then started for Somerset House, where got, through him, all
the `plans' of the Brixham cavern. Having arranged to call at

IFalconer's between four and five, called at Tennant's to name some
IDevonshire corals, etc., for him. This done started to see R. Godlee
         chambers. Then to                   where I bought Percy's `Metal
at his                             Mudie's,
            Then  to Falconer's,             made the few alterations in my
lurgy.'           desired, and     where I   to Stratton Street. We dined at
paper    which I
                                  then back

I6.30, and afterwards Miss Coutts and Mrs. Browne, Miss Savage and

  went to Drury Lane to see the Colleen Baron, which greatly delighted

me, and then home to bed. . . ."

                                            Pengelly to bis IVz'fe.

     "Cambridge, Oetober 6, 1862.--After breakfast yesterday, several
of our Corpus party walked into the country, about three miles, to
attend church. The building was extremely simple, the preacher a
decidedly good man, but not a philosopher. He preached on angelic
existences. We then walked back to hear, at St. Mary's, what may be
I 36                         WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                        [ClL x.

called the British Association sermon, by a celebrated man whose

name has escaped me. It was the first of a series of lectures on the
Life of St. Paul, and was devoted to the consideration of the Apostle

as a man of tact and presence of mind; it was extremely able, and was
                                              of the Association men.   Another stroll

                                              hour for dinner. I think  told you I was
Ilistened to by a large party

into the country brought the
to dine at Potts'. There was a large gathering of ladies, Mrs. Fison,
a cousin of Mrs. Potts', being amongst them; but besides Potts and
myself there was only one other gentleman, a Dr. Heaton of Leeds.
IMrs. Potts is beautiful, young, and clever, and talks admirably. Potts
is elderly, and talks excellently. We had a good time.                                scarcely

think `there is a better time coming.' Brixham was loudly called for,

and made a decided impression. . . ."

     To ameliorate in any small way the condition of the poor

Irish fishermen was a most congenial task to Pengelly, the
humane and serious side of whose character was well known to

intimate friends. Any memoir would be imperfect which left
unnoticed his strenuous efforts to improve the prospects of
others, and his many acts of unostentatious kindness.

                                  Airs. Pengelly to her Sister.

    "fauuary 15, 1863.-- . . . Please tell M----* that Mr. Crawfurd,

whom she will remember as Chairman of the Ethnological Section at
Manchester, is coming to-morrow on a visit to Miss Courts, and William
is going to dine with him to-morrow and the next day. He has been
in correspondence with R. Were Fox, for Miss Coutts, about the Irish
fishermen, as she is very desirous of doing something to improve
them. . . ."

     Surprise has often been expressed that a complete account of

the results obtained by the Brixham Cavern Committee was so
long in being given to the scientific world. Pengelly, having
personally conducted the whole of the work himself, had lost

no time in preparing his own report. The latter part of the
following letter will show that he was in no way responsible for
the delay which caused so much comment.

                             Pengelly to Dr. Faleoner.1'

                                              " Lamorna, Torquay, December 16, 1862.
     if . .' . Of course I have not forgotten that `the Brixham Cave
               was carried on   ththartouIghwouats  under the  Committee of the
              Society,' seeing                      a member   of the committee.
Iexploratlon

Geological
But, truth to tell, had come to the conclusion that the committee had

     * A married sister.
                             of this letter,
      1'  ,T  he early part   no reference      which is omitted, refers exclusively  to Professor
          s   work, and has                   whatever to Brixham Cavern.
Heer

""i
1862--1863.]  REPORT ON BRIXHAM CAVERN.                               137

`died and made no sign,' since it had allowed three years and a half to
elapse, since the exploration had closed, without anything in the shape
of areport.

    "Until receiving your last I was not aware that Mr. Prestwich was
I Ithe secretary of the committee.
                                                 to wait until I have had
     "Since last wrote you have decided
the opportunity of reading Sir C. Lyell's book, which, right or wrong,
Iwe are looking for daily here in the country. After that, since the

committee is still alive, shall, with great pleasure, be prepared to
Isubmit my paper, on the Cavern, to the committee, through Mr.

Prestwich, the secretary; as soon as hear from him that the other
reports of which you speak--on the Bones, the Flints, and the Gravels
I--ar"e
       also ready.    will be the right course,  since  you  think it doubtful
        presume this

`whether the Royal Society would entertain a paper on an isolated
Ipart of the
      " am    investigation.'  hear  of Mrs.  McCall's  indisposition, both on
              very sorry to
her account and on yours. We men are but part of ourselves without
the kind offices of a woman."
     "P.S.----I will write to Mr. Prestwich, at once, to inform him that

I have a paper on Brixham, and asking for information."

                           Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

    "London, February 18, 1863.-- I. . . thank you much for the

notes and corrections on the Torquay cave, all of which are adopted.
     "Although the errata already amount to about forty, scarcely any

one has hit on the same mistakes as another, even of the attentive
read"erSso. when you have read more you will greatly oblige me by sending
any "reTmhaerkhsi.story of the obstacles put in the way of your publishing the

IBrixham results makes me somewhat indignant, and if were not
I Iafraid of doing mischief should take it up more vehemently, but

shall not forget it.

    "I shall tell the President of the Royal Society how the matter
Istands, and how injurious consider it to be to you personally. . . ."

The following letter received from Lyell tells its own tale :--

                      Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

"53,Harley St.,London, Monday,April13, r863.-- . . . Ihavejust
Ireturned to town and find your letter.       may say that, being a member
Iof

of
the Committee [Brixham          Cave], always understood that the idea
working it systematically       had originated with the Nat. Hist. Soc. of
Torquay. . . . that they were in treaty for a lease, had secured the
refusal, and that they had caused the ransacking of the contents to be
discontinued. . . . There can be no harm in my saying that you had
                                served on the Kent's Hole committee,
previously      studied caves,                                        and
objected      to former mode    of working, etc. I may also say that  Mr.

Pengelly was the first geologist who visited the cave. . . ."
I38                WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                       [CH. X.

     Notwithstanding the time occupied in scientific work and
correspondence whilst in London during the summer of 1863,
Pengelly had numerous social engagements, from which he

derived great pleasure.

                   Perrgeliy to his I/sze.

   I" r, Stralton Street, May 28, 186 3. Yesterday after breakfast called

on Sir C. Lyell and remained with him until about noon. Then to the
British Museum to see Woodward about Mr. Vicary's* box of fossils.
He could make nothing of them. Afterwards to South Kensington
Flower Show. The azaleas and geraniums were quite gorgeous; and
the ladies many of them very     beautiful, so it was                      trial of
                                   forgot to say that  nIotcaalledgreaatt  Jermyn
Ione's self-denial to be there.
IStreet to see Salter about Mr. Vicary's fossils ; but he was out, so left
the fossils, and saw Sir Roderick, who gave me a ticket for his gathering
as President of the Geographical, telling me that Miss Coutts had
written informing him of my being in town, and that he was that
moment about to send off a card to Stratton Street, for me. At seven

dined."

                   Pengell ' to his Wife.

     I" 1, Stratton Street, London, May 29, I863.-- . . . returned here
about four o'clock, and found an arrangement had been made for me to

go to the House of Commons, where I should meet John Abel Smith,
who would take me into the House to hear a debate on the Dover Con
tract. I heard Mr. Walpole,
                               Gladstone,   Lord  scJ.arcMelaynnsearys,I  Lindsay,
Lord R. Cecil, and Whiteside.    The last                                 heard, as
                                           I can
the House was impatient to divide and made a great row. The division

at length came, 19I to 205, i.e. I4 for Ministers. . . ."

                   Pengelly to lzir W'g'fe.

                   (Date uneertain.)

     ". . . Next I called on Tennant, and then back to dinner. I
knew most of the guests, to wit Dean and Mrs. Milman, Mr. Harness
(author of Miss Mitford's Life and Letters), Miss Moore (niece of Sir
John Moore), Miss Smith, etc., etc. After dinner came Crawfurd,
Count Strelezski, and General Kmety, a Hungarian, who was the real
defender of Kars, and so the evening passed off mighty pleasantly.
IThe"leTchteurree
         seems to be the only real business       have     in town.
         appears to be some scheme afoot to       bring    me permanently
Ito town. At any rate, J. A. Smith spoke to me on the subject, but
think it is no more than a vague and misty idea, and will probably

melt away. . .   .'?

                  I
                                                                  I
                   Pengelly to lzir I/Vz'fe.

     "Stratton Street, fune 2, 1863. . . . You will see that am really
going off to-day.  am getting quite proud of my self-denial, for there

* \Villiam Vicary, Esq., F.G.S., of Exeter, an intimate and highly valued friend.
[862--1863.] SIR R. MURCHISON~DEVONSHIRE FOSSILS.                                                        139

is much to tempt me to remain. There is to be a good meeting of the
IEthnological
comes on     at   to-night, and    toy-metorrIowmeannightot  the whole Abbeville case
delightful  call  the Geological,                            go. Yesterday made a
                   on my pupil,    Mrs. Cavendish,           then to see the Ghost at

the Polytechnic, which is well worth seeing. Then to the House of                                              .

Commons with Captain Gordon, then with Miss Coutts and Mrs.

Browne to Lady Lyell's party. Lady Lyell very beautiful. I met
Murchison, Cooke, Sir P. Egerton, Bunbury, Babbage, etc."

    Early in June Pengelly received a letter from Mr. J. W.
Salter asking him to procure some Devonshire fossils, which Sir

Roderick Murchison had long been desirous of securing.

                                   f. I/V. Salter Io Pengelly.
   I I"fune 2, 1863.-- I. . . am sorry was out, the more so as hope

to be down in your neighbourhood for a day or so in August, and

should be very glad if you were to meet our party and give us the

Ibenefit of your local knowledge. Perhaps we may meet? At all

events shall drop you a line when we have made our day out, and
take the chance. As Austen and Pattison will probably be with us,
Iyou would not think the day ill given, know.
I"Now to business. Those fossils, which
                                                                asked you three years
Iback to procure, and which you promised to try for, are still rz'esz'derata
in our cabinet.   have Sir R.'s sanction for saying, that though we

have no cash for a general collection of Plymouth fossils, he should
feel 0blzged by your looking out for specimens of these--if they should
fall in your way for us. You know best where these oeeur, how they

oreur, and why they areur. And it omers to me, that if they aeeur to
you, it may oeeur to the men to offer them to you, and we shall be all
the better and happier and richer if you cause them to wear in our
museum, and some of Sir R.'s spare cash in the men's pockets.

Q.E".DI.  wI aws oautldDuhdavleey   at Whitsuntide.   Such fun! Why not                           leave  your
                                   sent them to you.   Will August do?"
box?

     The tie between Pengelly and many of his pupils was
exceedingly strong, as will be seen by an extract of a letter from
one of them, who had heard there was some prospect of his

leaving Torquay.

    "My first feeling on reading the latter part of your letter was one

Iof such intense selfishness, that would not let myself write for a few
I if Tdays, till could say that you leave arguay for your own advantage,
I shall be glad of though shall miss you more than any friend you
I

                                  it,

                             I
                                   I

                                                                                               .

                                                I
                                                              I
have there. . . . Tell me what to look for near Lewes in the Chalk.

mean to work very hard; can get anything for you?                                                 don't care

for Mr. Gosse or his book; or anything, till hear whether we are to

lose you."
140                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                   [C11. X.

     Several well-known men were amongst the fifteen candidates
admitted this year to the Royal Society; namely, Sir Henry
Roscoe, Professor William Crookes, E. W. Cooke, R.A., Professor
Daniel Oliver, Dr. Robert Harley, Dean Stanley, and the Rev.

Dr. Salmon, Provost of Trinity College, Dublin. All the active
work of Pengelly's candidature had been undertaken by Sir

Charles Lyell, who wrote to congratulate him, as did numerous

other friends.

                      Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

I " London, May 9, 1863.---- . . . On my return to-day from Osborne,

   am happy to find that you are one of the fifteen selected by the
Council of the    R.S., for election on                  of June as an F.R.S.
Of course, until  the ratification takes    the 4th      that day you will say
                                           place on
nothing, but in truth all is now safe.

                         Pengelly to hir I'Vi/e.

I   "Lamorna, Torquay,   fusoneI      7, 1863.--  . . . This is the eighth letter
   have written to-day,                 opine it  runs a risk of being short.

IYesterday brought me a letter from the Royal Society, informing me
of my election. . . .    have to-day received the first-fruits of my
IF.R.S. in the form of No.
                                      55 of the   `Proceedings'           of the Royal
Society. It looks wonderfully         dry; a few  c0pies would          be of immense
                                 wonder whether I shall ever get my work
     to a laundress.

Hoalnuee? . . ."

                         Pengelly to his Wife.

     I I" Torquay, fune 11, 1863.-- . . . find           must go to town next

Thursday, the 18th, to be presented        (` admitted'  is the right phrase) to
the President of the Royal, or defer       it to one or
                                                         other of the two first

Imeetings in November; failing these, my election is void. As there

seems to be little to prevent my going up next week, think of doing
so. My intention is                                                                 Miss
Coutts, finding that  Itomguost  up   on   Thursday and back on Friday.             to be
                                  be   in
                                           town, asked  mI eshtoougldo  there, and  it;
                                           (to-night).                  have liked
Ipresent at her ball on the 11th
have no doubt it will be a brilliant affair. The Princess Mary* and
Duchess of Cambridge are to be there. Brave moral courage! Re
Imember these factsl State in my epitaph that was proof against the
Idiscussion on the Abbeville jaw and Miss Coutts' ball, yet that could
Ihave enjoyed both.      am writing in the little parlour, all clean and
tidy, and most sweet and comfortable, more especially as it smells
villainously of Turpentine and Co., who have
                                                        been   introduced here by
Mademoiselle New-broom.1' I have received                Mrs.
                                                               R----'s and Mrs.
W 's accounts, and am now as rich as a Jew, and am thinking of

setting up a carriage and pair."

     * Now Duchess of Teck.                              'l'   A servant.
[862--1863.] ELECTED A MEMBER OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. I4I

Pengelly to his I/sze.

I"London, fune 22, r863.-- . . . On Saturday                  spent the entire
morning at Jermyn Street. In the evening Lady Beecher, formerly
Miss O'Neill, dined here. . . .
     "fune 2 3rd.--I am sadly vexed to find in my pocket
                                                              tIhisspmeonrtninthge
this letter which should have been posted yesterday.
morning in a visit to Miss Coutts' school, at the east end of London.
After luncheon, Mrs. Browne and I went to a huge concert at 2, and
Iabout 3.30 Miss Coutts joined us; it was an enormous crowd, and all

the v0cal stars were there. Then home to dinner, and at 8.30 started
alone for the Geographical meeting, to hear the Nile explorers (Captains

Speke and Grant) give an account of their travels. It was a great crush.

Speke is a poor speaker, so the meeting was, on the whole, a failure.
Grant spoke but little, being second in command."

     The distance between London and Torquay often prevented
Pengelly being present at meetings which it would have been a

great pleasure to him to attend. It was a serious disappointment

to him to miss the discussion on the " Abbeville jaw," a subject

frequently referred to in his letters at this time, when it was
greatly interesting the geological world. The claims of the local
societies which he assisted, and the difficulty of sparing much

time from his numerous pupils, however, combined to keep him
in Devonshire, although the absence of Mrs. Pengelly, who was

staying with her widowed mother (now too great an invalid to
come to Torquay) made his home less cheerful than usual.

                             Mrs. Pengelly to her Mother.

    T" orguay, fune 27, 1863.--William has returned, having much

enjoyed his visit to London. He was at a very large party on Tuesday
night, where, amongst others, he met Baron von Brunnow, the Russian
Ambassador, with whom he had much interesting talk about his old
pupils, the Russian princes, and he made the acquaintance of Whewell
and several others. The Duke of Cambridge also was there. Since his

return he is very busy with a cavern he is examining, and has got a wall

made, and a second door in it; he as usual, very closely engaged."
a
                                                           .
                                                     is,
    At this time, and on many                               future occasions, he had the
pleasure of accompanying his                                 friend Mr. Vicary on short

geological expeditions.

                                       Pengelly to his VVlfi.

    "[lfraco/nbe, fuly 4, 1863.-- . . We have very much enjoyed our

visit here. On Thursday we went to Baggy Point and got some fossils,
and saw gloriously wild coast. Yesterday we went to Lynton, where
we saw the Valley of Rocks, and the East and West Lyn, and found a
142                               WILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [CH- x.

Ifew fossils.   have received your enclosures, and feel that I ought to
                                   of Etheridge
be back to-day on account         probably not     ;    but as he    cannot   arrive before
twelve on Monday, and                                                 have   accepted Mr.
                                                      so soon, I
Vicary's invitation to remain until Monday, when I hope to get home

between two and three. . . ."

     The cave-bones which Pengelly had found in Devonshire
proved of great importance to Sir Charles Lyell in his in_

vestigatioiis.

                Sir Charles Lyell t0 Pengelly

     " 5 3, Harley Street, Zen/ion,          VV., fut}! 16, 1863.---I was    glad to
receive your report on my return             from a visit to the Museums
                                                                             of Paris

IfawSnth.dicPhrCehsIat.retrxeasIm, sinaeesnddweysloloumaseDteohsuntnohdyeererDsd'riftatwndcoonfiptfatapyienorisnrgomnEolertehp,e/iaamn: adrmkmeedroisdtiobnionantleeissre, saot tf
ing they were.  me ;bybuatn, yifcnhoatn,ceI  you   possess Desnoyers' papers,  please
return them to                               wish  you to study them.

     "From this time forth we shall want abundance of specimens of
bones collected from caverns in which we are certain that man dwelt

or took refuge. I am not sorry that you are working at a collection of

"I Iremains of comparatively modern date.

          think can disprove Desnoyers' glaeial strictures, or his ice-theory,
but the human agency is more promising; but here we have a new
language to learn. All the negative and positive observations of your
cave-bones will acquire new importance. Lartet distinguishes at once
between the marks of teeth of dogs (or wolves) and hyaenas, or rodents
and carnivora. There are cuts circling half round some bones which it

is m0st difficult to refer to any action yet known, save human tools.
     " An argument at Paris against certain marks indicating man's inter
                                                    of them
     was       that there are      too many                   at St.   Prest; but on
       the       unscratched      or uncut         bones, I  found    them far more
Ivention

counting
numerous in proportion than had been supposed.                        must have seen

two "orEvtherreyeohnuendorfedyso.ur bones of the commonest animal acquire a new
interest by these new theories. How many are free from all marks?

How many exhibit scrapings, sawings, cuttings, fractures, etc., which
are distinct from furrowing caused by organic structure and from teeth
marks of animals, and modern pickaxe blows and scratch of finger-nails
"Iin clearing?

         shall be for four days (from July 20th to 24th) at Col. Wood's,
Southall, Swansea, and shall be glad of a letter                             after reading
     0
                                                      !

                                                     I if,

                                                                                                                by
Desnoyers, any queries or facts suggest themselves.                          shall have my
friend Symonds with me, and we shall go into some of the principal
                                             Col. Wood's
Glam"oNrganleshssirethacnavoense  and over     and twenty  museum.    El.    meridiona/is
                                    hundred                molars of

have been found in one large gravel-pit               at St. Prest,  unaccompanied
any other species of elephant "
                                                                                                                  .
1862-1863.] BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT NEWCASTLE.                                    143

                        Sir C/zarles Lyell to Pengelly.

     " 5 3, Harley Street, London, August 6, 1863.--I returned to-day
from a three .weeks' geological tour through South and North Wales,
with Rev. W. S. Symonds, Pendock Rectory, Tewkesbury, who is
coming out with a second edition of his geological book, and would be
I Iwell worthy of one of the six copies of the Bovey paper, which looks
very handsome,     and  will, am sure, read well when         can get a few
hours to study     it.                                        before, but we
                        I should have replied to your letter
             is almost unheard of    in Wales,
had,   what  never had the rainy     day which  unIinhteardrupdteetdermfiinneed  weather in
July,                                                                              to spend
       so I
in a"n.sw.er.ingI
                   letters. .  you  are persevering  in the cave exploration.    I
                   am glad
have not time to enter on the Gower caves to which we gave nearly

a week.

    " I collected arctic shells from the glacial drift of Moel Tryfan near

Snowdon, at about 1400 ft. of elevation."

     The meeting of the British Association at Newcastle-on
Tyne was a great success.

                               Pengelly to his VVlfi.

     "ZVezc/eastle-on-ije, August 27, 1863.-- . . . The opening meeting
last night was in every way a success. The number of persons present
Iwas beyond all precedent, they say 2850. The President's address the

best ever heard, splendid in matter and excellent in manner. Lots of
                                            Falconer; Lyell and Owen to
                   here, amongst them
                        am happy to say
my acquaintances                         I

Icome on Monday.
I Ias I can be when
                                            am well and happy, i.e. as happy
                                            of wives.
                   absent from the best                  fear must con

clude having no matter--or too much--or no time."

                               Pengelly to his Wife.

       "August 30.----The dinner-party at Sir William Armstrong's last
       was large,  and the whole     alTair enjoyable.   Crawfurd,               Harkness,
night  Sorby, and                                        the dinner              Sir Charles
Bate,               I sat together.    In the midst of

and Lady Lyell came in, having just arrived. After dinner a huge con

cert was provided by the Mayor for the Association. Altogether the
Newcastle folk had eclipsed all known in the history of the Associa--

tion. . . ."

      " Mweastle-on-Tyne,       Pengelly to his Wife.

Section ` C' yesterday.        September I, 1863.-- . . . We had a great day in
with Lyell as President.
                               Afterwards we fixed the next meeting at Bath,
                                 Hurrah ! . . ."

     Sir Charles Lyell appears from the following letter to have
left during the meeting. He consulted Pengelly frequently at

this period with reference to the new edition of the "Manual"
which he was preparing.
r44                          WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                           [Ca x.

                            Sir Charles Lyell t0 Pengelly.

        "' 5 3, Harley Street, London, Seiptemaer r, 186 3.--- . . . Mr. G. Austen
tells me he is to come on with a paper on the Loess of the Rhine, and
he told me the purport of                      He promised to send me any abstracts
                                          it.

                                            I
which may be given of it; but should consider a great favour you
                                                                          if

                                                                                it
                                                                                           ?
                                                                                               is

                                                                                           I

                                                                                                   if
will order any newspaper or journal (Literary Gazette or other) which
may give reports of the section on this or other matters relating to the

"IAssociation, as cannot attend personally.

          will repay you by postage stamps or
        I                                                                      we meet in town. My
                   I
chapter on the Loess has been in print this four months, and hardly
think shall have to alter but should like to hear what said on this
                                          it,

or on any cave remains, or flint implements, or on the controversy
                                           on Man and
betw"eYenouOwkennowanwdellHuwxhlaety      would interest  Ape.            concern      me, while            am
                                                           and                 I
                                                                                            is I

                                                                                                              is
rapidly passing my sheets through the press. The glacial period
largely treated of by me. Mr. King said he had thoughts of reading a
                                                                                       suppose he in
paper on Scotch glacial clays, etc., to the section.
Cambridge, and therefore do not hear from him in answer to my last
       II     had some other news to send him on the subject of his last
letter.   I

              II
                            aI
to me, had been sure where to address him. If you see him in the
                                          tell him this.
Geo"logikcnaolwSehcotiwon,prepcleioausse  moments are     in              the  bustle  of the           meeting,

so excuse my writing and asking you to order some papers to be sent to

me. shall not grudge duplicate should Austen chance to send me

the same as you. But his would probably be confined to his own
subject, and should like to see about things in general.
in the At/lenzeum or Literary Gazette, so any paper that                                do not take
                                                                                       really giving
                                                                               .
the notices would be welcome."
                                                                                I
                      Sir C/zarles Lyell t0 Pengelly
                                                                                    I is I
" 53, Harley Street, November 2, I863.-- . .                                           am sorry would
                                                                                                  .a
                                                                                                     it
cost so much to do justice to Kent's Hole. We might get grant of

£200 or more from the Royal Society, and perhaps some from the
British Association, but do not see my way for the rest. would join in
                            I

pr"ivaInte   subscription,  but we could hardly raise enough. . .
            the Gibraltar   cave there are human jaws of individuals
a                                                                                                       of  two

races, and much pottery of two ages, and below the stalagmitic crustI
            I
rhinoceros, ursus, leopard, zebra or small horse, hyaena crocuta, ox,

deer",  etc.  Bovey  Tracey  paper             is  very well done, and makes                            handsome
        The                                                               a
                                                                                                     a
`aAndntiiqnustirtuyc,'tivweithwoardkd. itionshoipneapspoeonnditxo." send       copy of 3rd Edition of
                            I

                               C
                             Sir /l(77'/¢'£ Lyell to Pengelly.
                                                    " 53, Harley Street, December 21, 1863.isa

     " find my wife writing to you on behalf of governess, whichI
reminds me that when read over my twenty-sixth Chapter of the
`Manual' or `Elements,' which has required much recasting in the
Scotch part, was rather wishing to have your criticism on pages 423
1862--1863.] THE GEOLOGICAL FORMATION OF DEVON.                               I45

Iand 424, etc., on the South Devon Devonian. I am trying not to

extend the text, both because am pressed for time, as well as for
space. My getting out the book will depend on my being able to
leave a good deal of it unaltered, except where there are positive

errors. But if a good writer like yourself could suggest a sentence

Ior two by way of modification, improvement, or addition, it would be

welcome and not cause delay. The pages allude to struck me as
Irather dry, and might be enlivened by citing briefly your palaeonto
logical results on  I  the corals.    shall not want it before a month hence.
                        hope to send  you the third edition of my `Antiquity
In a day or two
of Man' by post, in which you will see not a few of your suggestions

adopted."

                       Pengelly to Sir Charles Lyell.

                                      " Lamorna, Torquay, December 24, 1863.
I"Many thanks for yours of the 21st inst.
                                                          need not inform
you that though Sir R. Murchison regards the Slates, Grits, and
Limestones of Devon and Cornwall as strictly contemporaneous with
the Old Red Sandstones, and, indeed, places the Upper, Middle, and
Lower divisions of the former on precisely the same horizons as the
groups beating the same names in the latter (see Siluria, 3rd edition,
p. 433) ; and though Mr. Salter has recently endorsed this doctrine
(see Quar. four. Geol. Soc. for November, 1863, pp. 474 to 496),
Ithere are many who do not subscribe to it.
                                                          may mention that
    "To pass by all other dissidents at present,
Mr. B. Jukes, knowing that Mr. Davidson is now engaged on his
Monograph of British Devonian Brachiopoda, has recently been in
Icorrespondence with him on the subject. The latter has been so kind
as to  forward to   me all  the letters as they came in,  so that  am pretty
well   acquainted     with                                          `present'
                            Mr. 'Iukes' present views.      I say

because he has recently taken them up.
     " The first part--there will be three--of the ` Devonian Brachiopoda'
will contain something--probably not much--on the question.        It will
appear early in 1864; it is hoped in january, say February.
                                                                   I wish
you could have the advantage of seeing it before completing your

corrections.
"The following passages will put you in possession of Mr. jukes'
opin"io`nTshe:--beds of North Devon are identical in mineral character with

those of South Cork, and the fossils' (many of which he says are
identical) `occur in precisely the same positions, etc. But clearly the
whole of our Carboniferous slate' (of South Cork) `is above the top
of the Old Red Sandstone, as may be seen in section after section for
hundreds of miles, therefore it cannot be called Devonian anyhow.
And as believe,
                            merely the muddy and sandy representative
is if,

      is I

                          a
                             it
                                  is

                                             is
                                                  it

                                         I
                                                                      L I is

                                                                                                                                a
of the Carboniferous limestone,       follows that all the Marwood and

Piltorr beds of North Devon are so too.  am perfectly convinced that

this the true interpretation, and that in North Devon there        not a

fossil that not genuine carboniferous one, and no such thing as
Devonian one at all. What the case in South Devon do not
146                        WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                               [CIL X.

Iknow . . . but            suspect all the so-called Devonians are merely
geographical representatives of the carboniferous beds, and that
Calceola and Stringocephalus, etc., are merely southern carboniferous

forms, contemporaneous with the well-known carboniferous in Britain
      Ireland,  and not
and  " `As to   the Old    preceding them.      will
                           Red Sandstone,
                                            it        have        to  be                         split  into  two
if not three. The Cephalaspis beds are the top of the Upper Silurian,
the Cocostens beds will probably form the base of the carboniferous.

Perhaps there might be a middle group, which may be called Devonian,
         it can                           in Devonshire.'
         writing  be proved to occur      made the following
                   Mr. Davidson
Iprov"idIend                                                                                     remarks,  which
will give you my opinion on the question. `Mr. Jukes appears to
hold that the entire Siluro-Carboniferous interval is represented by
If Ithe Old Red Sandstone.
                                he is correct in this, it will follow,

think, that our lower slates, z'.e. those below the Torbay, Newton and
Plymouth limestones, are the only true Devonian beds we have, all
                                             (See my paper in Geologist for
above them being           Carboniferous.'  Jukes carries out his threat of
1862, pp. 456--9.)                                                                               Old Red, our
                            `Nay, if Mr.                                                         same horizon.

handing over to the        Carboniferous    ares,ysItemthinthke,   upper
lower slates must go       too, as they                           on the
My impression, however, is that the Old Red Sandstone represents
the lower, and the Devonshire or Devonian beds the upper part, of
the Devonian period or Siluro-Carboniferous interval as in the following

scheme.

                Carboniferous.

           é Petherwin.

                     G

                        Dartmouth, or Upper Slates.
                 g

     _§ (3 Torquay, or Limestones.
     0:1

     g '0. Meadfoot, or Lower Slates and Upper Old Red.

                        Middle Old Red.

                 'U

            0 Lower Old Red.
     ` `I
                Silurian.
            is

                           54'

                                                                             it .
                                                                                          is ,-
" believe the Pilton or Barnstaple group to be rather Carboniferous

than Devonian, perhaps passage-beds between the two hence they are

omitted here.

    " `The Dartmouth and Petherwin groups may be on the same

horizon, but the former has yielded very few fossils. . .

    " It no doubt the truth that there are certain species common to
                                                                                                 not the whole
Devonshire and to the Carboniferous system; but

`truth, for there are also some species common to Devonshire and the

Silurian system, whilst by far the greater number are neither Silurian

                                                                      _
1862--1863.]         GEOLOGICAL FORMATION OF DEVON.                                     [47

nor Carboniferous, but intermediate forms, that                                  is,    they represent an
                                                                                     ;
intermediate period,                  be possible for fossils to do so. There no
                     is                                                                 I is
                                                                                            I
                           if

                                  it
doubt that, both specifically and generically, the connection with the
                     closer than with the Silurian system but this appears
Carboniferous

"Ito prove merely that we have no lower Devonian rocks in this county.'
     fear, Sir Charles, this long affair will have wearied you.                         will

only add that am engaged in making an abstract of all that has been
               I

written on our Devonian rocks since 1836, and 'that you will find all
have written on them in the following papers, viz. `On the Devonian
Age of the World' (see Geologist for 1861, pp. 332--347), `On the
Geographical' (misprinted Geological') and Chronological Distri
                                      `                                `

                                         I                               I
                                                                                   I
bution of the Devonian Fossils of Devon and Cornwall' (see Geologist
fRoer po18rt62o, fppth. e10C--o3rn1)w. allThGiesolopgaicpaelr  was printed`more         correctly in the
                                                                                 think  sent you one of
                                                               Society.
the reprints, On the Correlations of the Slates and Limestones of Devon
and Cornwall with the Old Red Sandstones of Scotland' (see GeologistI
for
          I
            I`
     "1862tr,usptp.  456--459).  say  that  shall be delighted, and indeed proud,
                      need not

to write anything to be added to or cited in your Devonian chapter;
but as all can say on the fossils of this district will be found in the

papers just named, you will, perhaps, be more likely to please yourself
by boiling down to a sentence or two, all have written in many. .
                                                               I                        .
                                                                                             ."

    Amongst the visitors to Torquay in the autumn were Dr.
Day and Mr. D'Israeli. This was the commencement of an
intimate friendship between Pengelly and Dr. Day which lasted
till the death of the latter. Although closely occupied at this
time, he paid very frequent visits to this invalid friend, en

deavouring to cheer his sad and painful hours.

                      Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Mot/zer.

     "November, 27, 1863.--Yesterday                           went to call on Dr. Day, late
is
    a

        is
                                            a
                                                     is a

                                           I
Professor of St. Andrews, and friend of Professor Edward Forbes,

who  come here in very feeble state, from the effects of a fearful

accident he met with some years ago on Helvellyn, falling down the
                                            almost confined to his bed. He
shaft of a disused mine; he                                                             a
                                            relative, Miss Otté, who lives                       is
quite an intellectual man; his                She translated Humboldt's                 `Cwoitshmtohse.m' ",
       clever, interesting woman.

                      Mrs. Pengelly to ller ZVIot/zer.

     " Torquay, 186 3.-- . . . We have had several calls lately from Mr.
Dillon Croker, son of Crofton Croker the author; he brought letter
of introduction to William from Mr. Wright the antiquary, whom he
knows intimately. He tells us that Wright                                        often up at four in the
                     is
                                    a

                                                                              a
                                                                            is
morning at his writing, and gets through vast amount of work. . . .
Mr. Croker also friend of Halliwell, the Shakesperian writer, so
he and William have much in common."
I48 _ WILLIAM PENGELLY.                     [CIL X.

                                Mrs. Pengelly t0 lzer Mot/10'.

     " Torquay, November 29, 1863.-- . . . Dined at Mrs. Cosway's on
Friday, meeting amongst others Sir John and Lady Harding; he is a
lawyer, and had the chief settlement of the Trent question. D'Israeli
is staying here at present, the old lady he used to come to see having

just died--Mrs. Bridges Williams. She was over a hundred. It is

more than eighty years since she was married. She lived near the
Hacks, who knew her well and said she was very eccentric, keeping
a whole colony of cats. She had no near relations, so some time ago
wrote a letter to D'Israeli saying how much she admired him, and
should like to make his acquaintance. When he got the letter, he
was staying with the father of Monckton Milnes, and read the letter
out at dinner, as a good joke; but a lady who was present told him
she came from Torquay and knew Mrs. Bridges Williams, and advised
him to answer it seriously; so he came to Torquay to visit her, and
now she has left him £50,000. . . ."

      Pengelly's geological rambles frequently landed him at

nightfall in out-of-the-way districts. He describes, in the
following words, the difficulties he sometimes experienced in
finding a night's shelter :--

   "I once spent a summer moming in a quarry of yellowish

argillaceous deposits. The commencement of the day was fine, but
not assured. Its beauty was somewhat enhanced by a suspicious
indication of eventual rain, which was strengthened by the fact that
several immediately preceding days had been very wet. About eleven

o'clock it accordingly began to rain, but so gently as not to interfere
Iseriously with my work, and as the sky for some time seemed not to
have quite decided on its course of action  continued to seek and

extract fossils. Soon after noon, however, all hesitation was abandoned ;

the rain became so very decided and energetic that there was nothing
Ifor me but to seek a temporary home. The nearest town was several

miles distant, but strode rapidly on, through the heavy rain and

abundant mud, and soon became thoroughly wet through, whilst my
clothing failed not to testify to the colour of the deposits in the quarry
Iwhere my morning had been spent. Had the question been put

respecting my appearance, must undoubtedly have replied that it was
bedraggled, pitiable, and utterly unclean. My only thought, however,

Iwas that of reaching the town, in which, though an entire stranger,
Iknew there were plenty of inns. At length stood at the bar of the
principal hotel, but was told that they were quite full, and could not
make up another bed. Application to the next inn produced the same
result, and so on to the sixth. The case had now become serious;
and at length the truth flashed upon me that my appearance was
Ineither respectable nor assuring, and that my ability to pay was

probably doubted. Acting under this idea placed ten sovereigns on

my palm, and with open and outstretched hand, proceeded to the next
house which promised `Good entertainment for man and beast,' and
1862--1863.]  A FIELD GEOLOGIST'S EXPERIENCES.                   I49

Iasked, ` Can have a bedi" The effect was magical. `Certainly, sir,'

was the immediate   response.           Everything was done to make me com
fortable; and in a  short time
                                        I was enjoying an excellent meal, and

laughing over my adventures."

     On another occasion we find the following amusing account
of a ramble near Modbury :--

"To Kingsbridge Road by train. PleaSant walk from station to
Modbury. Lanes of the true Devonshire type. Ferns very numerous
and luxuriant. Modbury a quiet old town. Walked on to Kingston.
Found a comfortable inn--the Britannia--kept by Mr. Berry, who was
my pig-killing host of the Jolly Sailor at Mothecombe. The Britannia
is at the same time an inn and grocer's shop, and Berry was gone to
Plymouth (twelve miles) to lay in a stock of ales, porters, and groceries.
Ten o'clock at night having arrived without him, his wife became
uneasy, but tried to console herself with the remark, which she

frequently made, that the cart would be heavily laden, and the roads
very bad. As time crept on, so did her anxiety, which at length became
very serious; at last, however, just as the clock had struck eleven, the
rumbling of cart wheels in the distance had a tranquillizing effect on

her nerves; but when Berry entered the house, it was found he had
lost his coat. He had not previously missed
                                             and thought must
                                             it,
                                                          a

                                                                    it

                                                                    I
have dropped from the cart not far back; so the tiny servant, only
eleven years of age, was sent in search of the missing garment.
volunteered to go too, and at something less than half mile we found
the coat. On our return                 appeared the unfortunate Berry had not
paid due attention to the stocks of groceries required from Plymouth,it
and he was being very decidedly, and in no gentle terms, reminded ofa
many such shortcomings on former occasions. His better-half had
                                    a

                                    it
carefully treasured up all his little as well as his great peccadilloes, and
with these, as `Cat-o'-hundred-tails,' she certainly did flagellate the
poor offender, in the most merciless manner. Berry meekly bowed his
head so as to allow the storm to pass with as little injury as possible,
and when an auspicious lull came, he volunteered story he had picked
                                             a
                                                     is,
up, which proved to be charming bit of gossip, that judging by the
effect which seemed to produce on the mind of the landlady."
1150                            \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                              [CIL XI.

                                       CHAPTER XI.

  COMMENCEMENT OF THE EXPLORATION OF KENT'S HOLE.

                               END or 1863 TO DECEMBER 1865.

PENGELLY'S many-sided activity continued to be manifested
by ever-increasing interest in geological, palaeontological, and

anthropological research. Some correspondence with Mr. J.

W. Salter (who has been already mentioned) has been preserved,
and is specially noteworthy, as Mr. Salter's name is known and
respected wherever palaeontological work has been carried on.
Dr. H. Woodward, F.R.S., speaks appreciatively of his labours,`
and especially mentions the work on British Trilobites to which
the following letters refer :--

   "J. W. Salter, Esq.," Dr. Woodward observes, "undertook a

monograph on the British Trilobites for the Palaeontological Society
in 1864, of which four parts appeared--from 1864-1867. This work
occupies two hundred and twenty-four pages of letterpress, illustrated
by thirty-one quarto plates, and contains descriptions of one hundred
and fourteen British species (leaving about two hundred more to be
described). No one who takes up this fine work of our old friend can
avoid a feeling of regret that Salter's valuable life and splendid

palaeontological knowledge should not have been longer spared to us,

to carry on to its completion this most important             service."

            f W. Salter to Pengelly.
      "I only keep your C/zeirurus, as they will come into an early plate,

      I9h4a9v, e95ta7k-en
I INOS- 948,

    "But
                                       notes  of the numbers  and  localitie_s  of all the
                                                                                hope your
others shall want to see and describe some future day, so
methodical collection will remain nearly as it is. You have some very

cshpoeicciemensspecIimhaevnes;      a   new  Pen/1am     among the rest, and the only
                                yet    seen  that show  the heads of the Bronteus--eye,

     * See Anniversary Address delivered before the Geological Society of London
in 1895.
X863--l865.]  J. W. SALTER'S GEOLOGICAL WORK.                                                 151

etc. Cyplzaspis,       too, and other   good things. May                       you prosper    and
increase ! Many        thanks for your  prompt kindness in                    sending these.
                                                                                                I

thought you would like to have all back which were not in early use,
Iand take advantage of the. opportunity to return them.
   I"Mr. Vicary and the others are
                                                                      kind.       ought to have
come down to see you from Exeter ;                                      not
I could do                                 beuxttreImceoluyld                 do  it. It was all

shorthand      to get  otfhrmouyghlectmuyre,acttouablebsuusriene!s"s  there.  What a wonderful
              report
                          f W. Salter to Pengelly.
                                                " Finchley, November 2, 1863.
                                discovered after had written you all
I I" There are five tablets
Isafe. Decade eleven is not out. But why ask me to send a list of
Survey publications,      have 0 to do with it now. Reeks would
send you one directly. On second thoughts I send you my own copy
 willIand
" Oh   get another, that   will be      less trouble to               you.                   the
        yes, I've thought    about      the Dodman !                       believe they are  not

same set, and told Vicary so.           Some I know                   are. Why should

those who have the B[udleigh] S[alterton] pebbles compare them with
those in Cornwall?
"I've stated in my appendix about these Great Peraver fossils. Thank
you for the hint and for all your good will"

                          j.Pertg'elly to  W. Salter.

      " Torquay, fameary  28,  1864.--Many thanks for                         youI rcaknindonnlyotesenodf
25th inst. . . . But to   the  real business of your note.

you localities for three out of the five species you have figured, namely
Piraeops law's, Trappean Ash, Knowle Hill, Newton Bushell, S. Devon;
Plzaeops latz'frons, very deep down in the Pleurodictyuni slates at Black
Hall, near Totnes, S. Devon. P. arachnoz'des, very deep in the Pleuro
dictyum slates at St. Keyne Hill, near Liskeard, Cornwall. N 0 other
ITorquay                                                                                   In our

Museum                                                                                     you to
       collector has anything           cwololertchtiony,ouwr hincohticIe,shoulfidndli.ke
       we have Dr. Battersby's
If Isee. you wish will apply to the Committee to have all the trilobites
Isent you. Let me hear from you on this point.                        have forwarded your
slip of figures to our friend Vicary, and have asked him to send it on to Mr.
IValpy of Ilfracombe. Besides these know of no collector in this
Idistrict.    have no doubt there are some good specimens in the Geo
logical Museum at Penzance, of which Saml. Higgs, jun., Esq., F.G.S.,
Iis secretary, and also in the Museum at Truro, about which Dr. Barham
of Truro can give you information.         have no doubt an application

Iffrom you, with a statement of the object, would bring you the specimens.

   you write to either or both you can use my name if you wish. . . ."

                    j. W. Salter to Pengelly.

    " St.fo/m's Wood, April 22, 1864.---- I. . . do not quite know the

locality or name of the Museum at Penzance where Professor McCoy
saw, and whence he described, the list of species occurring at Gorran
I 52                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [CPL XI.

IHaven and Great Peraver. But wish much to examine all the trilo

bites from that locality, and should be glad through yourself to make a
Iformal application for the loan of them to figure in the plates now
executing for the Palaeontographical Society.         am moreover describing

ttMohecsCeBoeuydthledeiegswhchriobfoleesssiolHsf,otmhaenadlotrnitlohotebmsiteesda. oncduWmCeailntlytsmyomuweoturayldndtobPeglzeavteaotlhupear,mbleetfcoj.ur smtIenw?oaw"n.t

     Dr. Daubeny was at Torquay on several occasions this year,
and was much interested in Pengelly's work.

                   1111's. Pengelty to her Mother.

      " Torquay, january 22, 1864.--Our little party was very pleasant.
We had several friends to meet Dr. Daubeny and Professor Phillips,
and they all seemed thoroughly to enjoy themselves, and there was no
lack of conversation. Professor Phillips is a most agreeable man,
every one liked him. He was very much pleased with some of William's
fossils, and has given him the new edition of his last work. William

has taken him and Dr.  Daubeny   to see   the  working   at Bovey   Tracey
which much interested   them.              to  tell you  Professor  Phillips
                                I forgot
was at William's lecture on Monday which was so crowded, that chairs
had to be put up all the middle of the room and every spare corner.
Some of our friends who came over on purpose to attend it from
Plymouth, though only five minutes late, would have had to stand all

the time but that more seats were with difficulty carried up for them."

                               Pengelly to his Wzfe.

      I" Torquay,/102a 30, 1864.-- . . . On Monday       went to Newton
                   in a drive to Denbury and Ipplepen.
and joined Vicary  Dr. Daubeny had left a card, with a   On reaching
                   few days only. Tuesday Alf. and
home I found that                                        mI escsaalgleed    that
                                                                               at
he is here for a

Daubeny's; we had a long chat, amongst other things with regard to
the evening Lectures at the British Association. He told me our

friend         almost insists on giving one--it is an immense blunder. .

This morning my mother informs me that Jane* intends giving you
warning, as soon as you return, as she is about to marry. The con
fidence of this young couple in each other is really most touching.
Jane doesn't know what is John's employment, and John cannot get
from Jane what her name is. She informs my mother that the
business began thus; and in Holy Week. John              came with butter
on Monday. Quoth Jane: `Be you a promised?'              JIohcnom: e`Noon,  but I
be a looking out.' Jane: `50 be I.' John: `Shall
                                                                            Good
Friday?' Jane: `1 shan't be out their! you can come next Sunday if
you like.'     So  John came;  and now! Well, well; and all this in Holy
Week! .     .       think our  Cornish journey may take about a week.
               .I
We start in a few days. . . ."

      A project was on foot for exploring the limestone caverns

                                                          * The cook.
[863--1865.] INVITED TO UNDERTAKE EXPLORATIONS.                                153

of Sarawak, but Pengelly never thought of doing the work
himself, though it would be gathered from the following letter
that he had done so :--

                           Sir fumes Brooke to Pengelly.

                                                                " Barraton, February 20, 1864.

   "I enter heartin into the project mentioned by Sir Charles

Lyell for exploring the limestone caverns of Sarawak, and beg you
Iwill assure him that any and every assistance shall be given to
carry it through.          only wish the Government was in a position to
defray the expenses under Sir Charles' direction. It will be no easy
task, for the caves are of great and unknown extent, and our Dayaks
not infrequently lose their lives in collecting the edible birds' nests
found there. Every appliance for the examination should be con
sidered and provided in England. There are fossil remains of shells,
etc., found in the strata of the stream both in the right and left hand
Ibranches of the river. When you determine upon going, pray inform
me, as  shall be tempted to become your companion! I am not

guarreawawlh. et.he. r ."  Mr. Wallace visited these caverns when he was in

     Pengelly was always greatly interested in those who could
claim Keltic origin, and the Welsh and Bretons, as having an
especial affinity with his native Cornish stock, particularly
attracted him.

                                       1111's. Pengelly to her Sister.

    "Torquay, April 4, 1864.---- . . . William has much enjoyed his
visit to London. He was a good deal with Sir Charles Lyell, who is

very desirous for William to accompany him this summer to the South
of France ; but he fears he will not be able to arrange though would
be great pleasure to him to join Sir Charles, they have so much in
common. He was also extremely interested in attending the Soiree
at the Royal Society, which he speaks of as very bright gathering;
he was introduced to Monsieur Pengouilly from Brittany, so of course
they fraternized. William says that Colenso, who was standing by
listening to them, seemed much entertained with their endeavours to
understand each other. . .
aa                                               a
                                                              it,

                                                                           it

                           a
                                     ."

  Pengelly was contemplating             short stay in Cornwall, to
                                         a
                                                                           is
continue some of his investigations in the rocks of his native

county. The following letter from Mr. C. \V. Peach in reply

to letter written earlier in the spring by Pengelly, asking some

questions regarding localities he wished to examine :--

                           *  Rajah of Sarawak.
I 54                             WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                       [Cl-I. XI.

                                 C. W. Peach to Pengelly.

                                                     "Wick, N.B., March 18, 1864.
      I" Accept my very best thanks for your four papers.
                                                                              hope to read

them carefully, and thus again see, through your description, the rocks

I I Iof Devon, etc. Bovey Tracey have never visited; think once
Isaw that spot at a distance. I shall, however, am sure, have much
Ipleasure in perusing the book and examining the drawings of the plants.
   have ascertained this much, that the plates are beautifully done, and
no doubt the                                         Thanks, dear friend, thanks for
                    pwapisehrsI  equally  well.      you to the hard quartz rocks of
Ithem. How                       could               will do my very best to give you
                                          go  with
Cornwall; not       being able to         do
Idirections.                                  so, I
                    did place some of the Silurian fossils in the Museum at
Truro. . . . In the Geological Museum at Penzance my best fossils

collected for my own collection are. They, as well as the Silurian
                                                     in Cornwall and                     Devon.
fossils, are beautiful ones from every loealz'ty     Polperro, which,
Amongst these are two Ichthyodorulites from                                              I would
                                                                                         will be
stake a good deal       on, are  really       fish defences.  Probably you
able to see them.        There   is one       specimen from   Polruan which               I now
                                                                              I
know  is a coprolite.            I've seen so many   in Scotland, that                   can speak
with  confidence now.                                see the collection                  again, and
                                   I should like to
Ihope yet to see it. St. Austell is the best spot to go to first--~thence

to Mevagissey, and so to Goran Haven. The spot got the Silurian
fossils first at is the great Cairn near Goran Haven. The quartz is
I Ithe highest point in Great Peraver. . . . The fossiliferous blocks are

at the foot of the ehfi.` When left, the spot got most at was partly
covered with the débris from the cliff. Amongst the large blocks there,
you will find rolled ones, and others in which you will find trilobites
and small shells; the larger shells in the large blocks, which have
not been disturbed. As well as the quartz rock, there is a blue gray
         sort of rock,  in which curious                                                  I only
softish                                             black fossils may     be  got.
         was amongst    them now, for I            am sure additions      to  the        Cornish
wish I
list may be made in them. These rocks are next the quartz towards
Bodrigan. . . . The next locality for fossils (Silurian) is the quartz at
the Diamond rock near Cayerhayes beach. . . . The blocks of quartz
are the best to search; and as well as Orthides you will meet with a
Icurious coral-like fossil. But only in the Cairn, Great Peraver, these
occur.   ought to have mentioned this before. This curious fossil

Iis most abundant   in the quartz rocks of Assynt, Durness, or                           [elsewhere]
                      was very much struck on seeing them                                there, and
in Sutherland.                   as like      thoIsereijnoicCeorenxwcaelel.dingTlyheyto
                                  bores.'
at once  recognized them                                                                 are called
by Mr.   Salter `Annelide                                                                think that
Iyou are
                                                                          in fancy. By
the-by,                                                                   piece of quartz
         Igogiontg    to visit my old     haunts.         am often there
                                           Great   Cairn at Peraver a
                    on the top of the
Ibeautifully polished and striated--evidently by glacial attion.
                                                                                         did not
Iknow then what do now--after having seen acres of polished rocks
I---ahl stores of miles. Now, then, for my own work, should all be well
this summer. By the same post that got yours, I received an invitation
Ifrom Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys of London to go with him
                                                              on a dredging              voIyafegaer
for two months to Shetland. To start in May.                    hope to go.
you will tire of my long yarn."
1863--1865.] GEOLOGICAL EXCURSION IN CORNWALL.                        155

                                            Pengelly to [11's I/sze.

   I" Torquay, fuly 10, 1864.--- . . . got home safely last night after

a pleasant, toilsome week in Cornwall. The following brief sketch
will show you our movements.

     "Monday, 41/1.---Left by first train, and at Newton joined Scott and
Vicary. We proceeded to Penzance without delay, which we reached
soon after 3 p.m. Having secured rooms at the Queen's Hotel on the
Esplanade, between Penzance and Newlyn, we went to the Geological
Museum to see the Lower Silurian fossils found by' Mr. Peach in
the quartzites of Gorran Haven. There are numerous but indistinct
specimens of few species. We could 'only identify one as belonging to
the Budleigh Salterton species. This done we called on Henwood,

who received us very pleasantly; we then returned to the hotel to a
meat tea. Whilst we were discussing this, Mr. Henwood came in to
take us to see sundry Elvan dykes ; this completed, we went to see
the lighthouse in Course of preparation for the Wolf Rock--between
Land's End and Scilly.

     " Tuesday, 5t/z.--All to breakfast with Henwood, after which we drove
to the Logan Stone, and thence to the Land's End. Had a capital
view of the Scilly Isles, which remained visible all day. Walked to

Sennen and Whitesand Bay. Much interested in the granite and
blown-sand phenomena. Back to Penzance to a late dinner. Mr.
Bolitho (my former pupil), having heard from Henwood of our being
in Penzance, called and invited us to dine with him next day. After
dinner Henwood came in for a chat.

     " Wednesday, 6th--Left for Marazion by 6.5 am. train, ordered
breakfast at an inn at Marazion, and took a boat for the Mount.
Went through the castle, and carefully inspected the granitic veins and
joints, after which back to breakfast. At 11.15 left by 'bus for Hel
stone, where we overtook a trap for the Lizard and Kynance Cove.

IAt the latter there were several holiday parties, amongst whom found

some old acquaintances. We also encountered young Cooke, son of
the artist, rambling about solitarin ; he is on a walking tour in Corn
wall. We returned to a late tea at Helstone.

F     " T/iursday, 7t/i.---Walked  to Looe Pool, and   at 10.30 left  by 'bus for
   almouth, which we reached       soon after twelve.   Walked to     Pendennis
Castle and the Raised Beach. Called on R. Were Fox at Grove Hill,
but found that he and his daughters were at Penjerrick. Met Alfred
Fox and his daughter Mrs. Pease, and also Alfred Lloyd Fox and his
brother. Dined at the Royal Hotel. Took train for Truro about
four; where, having arrived, we went to the museum, with the same
purpose, and with the same result, as at Penzance. Took train for
St. Austell, and got there soon after eight.
     " Friday, 8t/i.--Drove to Gorran Haven (nine miles), and after much
search found Mr. Peach's fossiliferous bands 5 but, though we got
several specimens, could not identify more than one with the Budleigh
Salterton fossils. Returned through Mevagissey, which is more of a

town than we had supposed.
I 56                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                  Len. XI.

   "Saturday, 9t/z.--Visited, the Clay Works. Left St. Austell by 2.50
train, and got home about 8.45, heartily tired, but very glad to find
your letter. . . ."

                      Peagelly to Dr. Davidson.

                             "Lamorna, Torquay, February I, 1865.

and   "yaTolhsuoanwfkoitrhytohsuautcvhoefryintfhomermuc1ah5titohnfour ltay. sourII  kind letter  of yesterday's date,
ing                                                                                              pleasure in furnish
                                                                                    have great
                                                                                    can (from    memory) respecting
the fossiliferous beds of my native place, Looe. East and West Looe,
in Cornwall, are two
mouth, of the narrow  small  towns                   on                             the opposite sides,  and at the
                      tidal  estuary                                                the river Looe, and  are situated
                                                     of

about fourteen miles, nearly due west, from Plymouth. The rocks of

the district are essentially bluish grey slates; the stratification is
beautifully distinct, and the dip, both in amount and direction, is

characterized by very considerable uniformity, through great vertical
and horizontal spaces. According to Professor Sedgwick, it is `about
30° east of Line South at an angle of 40° (Quar. four. Geal. Sea, vol.
viii. p. 16). In some places there is a considerable amount of inter
stratified schistose- grit, and a few thin calcareous bands here and there
present themselves. What appears to be contemporary hornblendic

ash is occasionally met with, and in some localities quartz veins are
             Some of the less gritty beds are not infrequently
numerous.

ferruginous, in which case the newly exposed surfaces are of a
yellowish-brown or reddish-brown colour; these are the principal, but
by no means                                          of organic                      remains. All the    Looe
Brachiopoda  wthheichonIlys, endtepyoosuitowrieerse                                 of this character.   Well
                                                     from beds

defined joints--most of them at (sensibly) right angles to the plane of
the horizon, and also to that of stratification--are common, and such

as have been some time exposed to the weather frequently disclose
small orifices, which are trustworthy indications of fossils. The

remarkable coral Pleurodiezyum problematitum--which, according to -
Murchison, is a characteristic fossil of the Lower Devonian Rocks
(table, p. 433, Siluria, 3rd ed. 1859)--is very abundant in the same
beds. Some of the specimens are of considerable dimensions,
measuring fully seven inches in diameter. This coral occurs also in
the slates of Meadfoot, Torquay ; and Mr. Godwin-Austen speaks of
it as ` ranging through the whole middle slate district of South Devon'
(Tram. Geol. 50a, 2nd series, vol. vi. part 2, p. 468). The finer
varieties of the Looe slates contain the fossils formerly known as the

` Polperro Fish-remains,' but which have been pronounced to be sponges

by Messrs. McCoy and Carter, who founded the genus Steganadieg/um
for their reception. These sponges extend from Looe, westward as far
Ias Fowey, and eastward to the Rame Head, at the entrance of Plymouth
Sound.     have met with them also at Bedruthen Steps, on the north

coast of Cornwall, a few miles south of Padstow harbour; and at
Mudstone Bay, near Brixham in South Devon, in the slates which
Iunderlie the great limestones of Berry Head and Sharkham Point.
Like Pleurodz'etyum, they are confined to slate rocks.                                           have troubled

you with these particulars in order to indicate the range of some of the
1863--1865.] GEOLOGICAL LETTERS TO DR. DAVIDSON.                                            157

trpoheroocgderaaoinv.uiesgmhltsyIhetahemGaartonglwedladedrWe,it.oublnuladtIsotbunoebongttedmMalytoesdatacllolc.nsotuerrdmIpiarpkilsonleyroadwr,tioesotofcoonhnofegartaorhtnueetlhaLawteothooyeyoohuuBarsaoacnrmehoitohrteeo
distinction, and the council on their decision on the question. May
you live long    and happily to enjoy this             maIrkamofgethtteingapqpureitceiataionnxiouosf
your scientific  friends and contemporaries.
Ito see your second instalment of your Devonian Monographs, especially
your Tables of Distribution.                  have great belief in tables for those

Iwho geologize as well as for those who j'olb/gize.                  After that fearful pun

  will close.

   I"P.S.--If    be       can give any        further  information   on Devon and Corn
wall, I shall              most happy         to do    so. Have      you seen any of the

Lower Silurian Brachiopoda from                the quartzites        IofseGntoryroaun?"and  the
Great Peraver in Cornwall, besides            the one or two

                          Pengelly to Dr. Davidson.

                                              I"Lamorna, Torquay, February 6, 1865.
    "Thank you very much for your letter of the 3rd inst.                      now, to
the best of my ability, beg to send you replies to your various queries.
I would `locate the Looe grits' (more correctly slates) not in the Middle

IDevonians at all, but near the top of the Lower Devonians (I scarcely

need say that use the terms Lower, Mddle, and Upper Devonians as
terms of convenience merely, not as equivalents to Lower, M'ddle, and
Upper Old Red;                                45 of                  part of your Devonian
Monograph); and           sheeereppa.lso44I,  would     the   first  the slates of South-east
                                                       place   all

Cornwall, as well as of Mudstone Bay near Brixham, Galmpton Creek
on the Dart, and Meadfoot near Torquay ; in fact, all the Plenrodictyum
and Steganodictyum beds. In the first part of your Devonian Monograph
you recognize the Looe beds as Lower Devonian (pp. 19, 40), and at
      4 you give, from me, a chronological scheme                    in which
page  located. You are quite correct in supposing                               they        are
thus                                                                  that I   hold         the

I IPetherwin beds `being, as to age, intermediate between the upper beds
of the Middle Devonian and the Marwood ones.'                        fear cannot send

you any more Upper Devonian localities in either Devonshire or
Cornwall. We have no beds of that age in South Devon. Tintagel
LiXsaXncVdelr.atakoienflyt(hneoUtpOp`rLdeanrnadnDlcaeebveo'Sn)uiarvnisey(isneMe CaopPr,anrwatalIsl..h,oDrteYvomouniilaewn inlleMafiornnlyodgdriautpehin,eaSpsh.te4eo)t.f
South Petherwin, and barely two miles south of Launceston. It
          if

                                                   is
                                                               is
                                                                         is

                                                                                                                        .

                                                                       I is,I
believe, in the parish of South Petherwin, and the chief fossil locality
in the district. In the writings of geologists, Landlake and South
Petherwin are synonyms. There are no fossils at the latter place.
                          that Mr. Champernowne
am  g"laRdamtoslefiignhd                                      so zealous. . .
                                                       situated between ngell
                          (not Ramsleugh)                                      and  Wool
                 we were sure of an unbroken sequence (which we very
borough;
certainly are not), the Ramsleigh beds would be far above those of
ngell and Bradley, and below those                     of Woolborough.
                                                                          oLfitnhogloegllic,ablluyt
they resemble the Woolborough beds                     rather than those
158               WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                        [CH. XI.

they have very few zoophytic fossils in common with either, whilst the
Ingell, Bradley,

and sponges in
                  and Woolborough                  beds have a large number of corals

                  common. I shall                  return to this point.             observe that
in your Table you put Linton and Ilfracombe together; they are fully
twelve miles apart, and this distance is by no means in the direction of
the strike of the beds; moreover, the rocks differ a good deal litho
logically. Linton is undoubtedly at the base of the Devonian series in
that part of Devonshire, and unless the beds there are Lower Devonian,
there can be none of that age in the county. Murchison (`Siluria,'
Table, p. 433, 1859), Lyell (`Elements,' Sixth Edition, p. 532, 1865),
and Salter (Quar. four. Geol. Soc., vol. xix. p. 489, 1864), unanimously

Iplace them on this horizon. Should you, however, decide otherwise,
shall be glad to find that you have given each of the two localities a

sepa"raYteoucohluamven.done well to give Woolborough a column to itself, and
there seems no objection to the union of Lummaton and Barton; the

argument, however, is still greater in favour of ngell, Bradley, and

Chircombe Bridge being united. In fact, there is no such fossil locality
as Chircombe Bridge at all. It is simply a small bridge across the
little river Lemon, a tributary of the Teign, which it joins at Newton.

The ngell quarries (there are two, Westhill and Ivy Green) are on the

right or south bank of the stream, and Bradley quarry is on the left
bank. These quarries are almost within a stone-throw of one another
and of Chircombe Bridge. When                                                        words `Chir
combe Bridge,' he means Bradley or                 anggeeolllo,giosrt   uses   the   . At Bradley
                                                                       both.*
                                                                                 ..
and ngell quarries the limestone beds dip about 20° towards S. 39° E.,
and therefore     strike about  S. 51 W. to N.      51° E. (true).                         . At the
village of East                  are numerous      interstratified,                    ..
                  ngell there                                                              therefore
                                                                                     and

contemporary, beds of ash and slate, apparently conformably overlying

the limestones just mentioned. These ash and slate beds are succeeded
confomiably by the Ramsleigh limestones; but in the quarry it is next

to impossible to make out stratification at all. Woolborough quarry is
in an outlier of limestone, and the ground between it and Ramsleigh is
occupied with grits of carboniferous age which entirely conceal the
Devonian beds. Moreover, it is quite impossible to make out stratifi
cation at Woolborough. To use Murchison's expression in October
last, `it is a charming piece                      of bedevilled limestone.' My advice

that you unite your Bradley,                       Chircombe Bridge, and ngell columns
                                                                               is
                                                                                   a

                                                                                                       is,
into one, under the name of `Chircombe Bridge,' with a footnote to
say that includes the two adjacent fossil localities of Bradley and

ngell.
     I it
                          I
"PS--Instead of `Meadfoot Sands' at the head of one of your
columns, would use the word Meadfoot simply. It
                                                                                     sea beach,

hence the word sands, which find has led some strangers to suppose
that the fossiliferous beds there are sands instead of slates, which they
are in reality."

The important and striking results which had arisen from

                  Here follows roughly drawn ground-plan.
                  *
                                                a
1863--1865.]  EXPLORATION OF KENT'S CAVERN.                                        I 59

the workings in the Brixham Cavern induced many leading
geologists to desire a systematic exploration of Kent's Hole.
It was therefore decided that an application for funds for that
purpose should be made to the British Association at the meet

ing at Bath. The result Of which was the grant of £100 for
the beginning of the work, Sir Charles Lyell, the President,
taking an active interest in it.

     This opened a new chapter in Pengelly's life, for he not
only superintended the exploration of the Cavern, but undertook

its entire management, throwing himself, heart and soul, into
the numerous duties which it entailed. The labour was arduous,

and severely taxed his energies for more than fifteen years; but
it was a congenial employment, and most faithfully performed.
He was always happy in the midst Of his constant and un
remitting labour, which was in itself a sufficient recompense to
one who worked, not for fame or reward, but to advance the

sum of human knowledge.

              Pengelly to Sir C/zarles Lyell.

     ". .                                " Lamorna, Torquay, April 2, 1864.
exploring
              . It is not unlikely that  yI owu ishhavite  given  up  all thought  of
                                                           could  be  managed. .
              Kent's Hole, nevertheless                                            ..
I £cannot but think that there are reasons why an application for 100
to the British Association at the next meeting might be successful.

IYou will be President, Professor Phillips (who is favourably disposed)

will be President of the Geological Section, and am to be one of

the Secretaries. If you decide on the application, it would be well for

you to see Sir L. Palk about it.

    I"The Duke of Argyll has spent a few days here. He was at my

Lecture last Monday, and on Wednesday went with him to Bovey,
and in returning, to some of the Devonshire Limestone quarries near
Newton. My wife unites with me in kind regards to Lady Lyell, and
the expression of sympathy with her under her recent bereavement."

     After undertaking the exploration, Pengelly became such an
enthusiast in the progress made, that, when in Torquay, he never
(unless prevented by illness) failed on a single week-day to visit
the Cavern, while he devoted many hours at home to the
examination of the specimens exhumed. He even abridged as
much as possible his short holidays, and all idea of living in

London was abandoned on this account. "It falls to the lot

of but few men," writes a brother geologist,*` " who have spent
their lives in a provincial town, to attain to so eminent a

                               * Henry Woodward, LL.D., F.R.S
160                            WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [CH. XI.

position in science, and become so widely known and highly
esteemed, as was the late William Pengelly, of Torquay."

     But to return to the Bath meeting, which was interesting and
important, though clouded by the sad fate of Speke, one of the
discoverers of the Sources of the Nile, who was to have given
his narrative in full on this occasion.

     The next letter will show the generous manner in which
Pengelly was supported by his colleagues, on the reading of
his Paper entitled "Changes of Relative Level of Land and Sea

in South-Eastern Devonshire in connection with the Antiquity
of Mankind," and the pleasure that the favourable opinion of

his views (bearing on this question) by such eminent scientific
experts, naturally gave him.

                               Pengelly to 112': Wife.

      II I"Bat/z, September 17, 1864.-- . . . have been very sadly neg
ligent ; but, in truth, have worked extremely hard.                     read my paper
(Changes of Level, etc., and Antiquityjof Man) on Thursday, to a
densely packed house. The success was immense. Murchison com
Iplimented me on my `eloquence and clearness.' Harkness declared
  had made a ` great hit.' Etheridge said it was `the best paper I had
ever written.' Evans backed me up like a brick. Phillips, Warington
           SymCoonldesn,so,Evafinnsd, inganId   Boyd-Dawkins spoke in
Smyth,                                         was a Cornishman, almost          unqualified
approval.                                                                         shook my

hand off. . . ."

                               Pengelly to his Wife.

fast  "  I, Stratton  Street,  [Var/ember      23,  I864.--    . ..   Yesterday at break
                       were                    the  house;           were Mr. Gladstone,
      I   found who            staying in                    there

his Wife] and daughter, and Sir Stephen Glynne (Mrs. Gladstone's
brother). Breakfast passed off very pleasantly; Gladstone is a good
                                                     Miss                        H. Wagner
                                                    Street
Italker. After the meal Miss Coutts,                        Gladstone,   and  I   played the
                                                            Museum,     and
went, under my guidance, to Jermyn
showman. Having seen the ladies off, had a chat with Percy and
also Etheridge, and then returned to luncheon, when Sir Charles and
Lady Lyell, the Rajah,* and Mr. John Abel Smith were added to the
party, and after the meal Crawfurd called, and we all did talk amain.

I then went off to Somerset House to make arrangements about the
meeting of the Kent's Hole Committee. . . ."

                               Pengelly to his IV

                                                        I was glad

                                                        the British
   I"London, November 25,                                               to get your nice
                                                                        Museum with my
budget of letters yesterday.
                               r8I64c.a--lled.      ..

                                                    at

Rocombe Kitchen Midden under my arm, where got S. P. Woodward

                               * Sir J. Brooke.
r863--r865.]  FIRST REPORT ON KENT'S CAVERN.            16:

to name the shells, W. Davies the bones, and A. W. Franks the
pottery, etc. ; then to the Royal Society to call for the Phil. Trans.
due to Dr. Day and myself; then to College of Surgeons to see
Flower, respecting the Whale Vertebra; all very pleasant. At dinner
we had the Gladstone party, Lord Harrowby, etc., etc., all fortifying
themselves to hear and endure my lecture on the Arithmetic of
Creation. The lecture was very largely attended. Sir Harry Verney,
john A. Smith, and many other friends there."

     Pengelly, with his friend Mr. Vivian, was now occupied with
arrangements for the opening of the Kent's Cave work, which
entailed much writing and thought, it being especially requisite
to provide very careful and trustworthy workmen. He was
disappointed in not being able to secure the services of his head
workman at Brixham, Henry Keeping, an intelligent and most

reliable man, who was now permanently engaged by Prof.
Sedgwick in the Museum at Cambridge. His brother Charles

Keeping, with a very steady assistant named Smerdon, was

finally engaged, and the following extracts from Pengelly's
Kent's Cavern journal (in which for the succeeding fifteen years
is recorded the daily work of the exploration) mark the begin
ning of operations :--

     "March the 27th [1865].--Went to the cavern with Mr. Vivian,
when all necessary instructions were given to C. Keeping, who attended
us. Engaged Smerdon as a labourer to work under Keeping.

     " Tuesday, March 28th.--To the cavern. , The workmen, as directed,
had broken ground outside the cavern, for the purpose of cutting a
roadway through a talus of earth and stones which almost closed the
southern (arched) entrance, which for the present is to be the entrance
used exclusively by the superintendents and the workmen, the visitors
and guide being confined to the northern entrance. The talus consists
of fine earth and stones, popularly, and perhaps correctly, believed to
have been thrown out of the cavern by the earlier explorers, etc., etc."

    The following letter to Sir C. Lyell accompanied the first
Monthly Report :--

              Pengelly to Sir C. Lyell.              -

   "I "Torquay, May I, 1865.
           enclose our First Report of Progress, and have no doubt that
you will think we have made a good beginning, and that the British

Association is not likely to throw away its money."

                               lllrs. Pengelly to her Sister.

    " Torquay, April, 186 5.-- . . . I was very busy two days colouring a

very large Diagram for William's lecture, so of course had a crowd of

                                                                                               M
162                      \N'ILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [CIL Xl.

callers, amongst others Mr. Gunn, an old clergyman from Norfolk,
who remained a long time looking with intense delight at some of the
Cavern bones ; he has a splendid collection of fossil Elephant remains,
is a good archaeologist, and is brother-in-law to our friend the botanist,
Sir William Hooker. Lady Hooker is spending the winter here; she
is a fine old lady. The other day Miss Croome (Dr. Daubeny's niece)
went to call upon her, and found her embroidering a frock for her
great grand-child, who is just three months old. We have had delightful
visits from Sir Wm. Hooker; 'he was very much pleased with some of
our ferns."

                                  lllrs. Pengelly to her Sister.

     " Torquay, April, 1865.-- . . . William is extremely occupied with
Kent's Cavern just now; they have not got inside yet, but even on the
outside have found a considerable number of shells and bones, not, it is
supposed, of great antiquity. He went to Brixham Cavern yesterday
with Mr. Gunn and a large party, who were all greatly interested. He
has had a nice letter from his old pupil, the Princess Mary of the
Netherlands.

    "You will be pleased to hear that Alfred has got a Scholarship at

Christ's College, Cambridge, which is very satisfactory."

                      Princess Mary of the Netherlands to Pengelly.

    "linis {le Parar near the Hague, April 4, I865.-- . . . Princess

Mary of the Netherlands thanks Mr. Pengelly for his letter and for the
beautiful volume of Lyell's `Geology,' which she has received through
the agency of Mr. Murray. The Princess recalls with much pleasant
recollection the delightful months which she spent at Torquay, and
the many geologzlzing and jollygizing hours for which she was indebted
to Mr. Pengelly. Miss von Doorn desires to be kindly remembered

to him."

                                  Pengelly to his Wife.

yest"eTrdoaryq.uayI,   fnne 18,   1865.----- . . . Your  letter  duly   reI aacmheddoimnge
                      am glad to   find you got and get  on so   well.
                                  On Friday afternoon
my best to imitate you.                                  I took  a friend to Kent's
Cavern, and had the pleasure of finding that a splendid oval flint
implement had been turned up; it was lying four feet deep and mixed
up with teeth of the
Yesterday Alfred and     Ihyweennat.     Yesterday    a capital flake   was found.
                                      to Hope's     Nose, geologizing,   and spent
the evening at Mrs. Yorke's, all mighty agreeable."

                                  Pengelly to his Wife.

" Torquay, july 5, I865.--- . . . In the Cavern we are at present
removing huge blocks of fallen limestone, and consequently finding
                       Vivian is now at St. Ives.         He does not think
little or nothing.    but is satisfied that were the     voters left at liberty  he         `
has much chance,                                                                 he
would beat Mr. Paull two to one. It appears there is great excitement
                                                                                                                                         l
8".

                                                                                                                                         If:

                                                                                                                   if,.»

                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                           l ' a2s7?"»3»."?"`-:*> h

                                  s.
v

THE ENTRANCE TO KENT'S CAVERN.  [To/ace  p.  162.
1863--1865.]    SIR j. SIMPSON ON CAVE SCULPTURE.                               163

there. . . . I have just received a good           volume     from the Palaeonto
                                                   a good     many of my fossils,
graphical Society. Davidson has figured
and has done me full justice."

                    M's. Pengelly to her Sister.

    " Torquay, November, r865.-- . . . Yesterday I was prevented
finishing  my   letter by a visit from   Sir john and          Lady Lubbock, who
came to    see  the fossils from Kent's
                                          Cavern, and         as William was out I

had to show them. Sir john seemed exceedingly interested in them,
and sketched the Flint implements, making notes of them. William
dinaevedrnws.i'th them, and took them over to Brixham and through both the

                             M's. Pengelly to her Sister.

     "Mvember 19, 1865.-- . . . Yesterday we had a visit from Sir E.
Lytton Bulwer,` who came to see the Kent's Cavern fossils, and remained
for some time chatting, so we had a nice opportunity of making his
acquaintance ; but he was very deaf unfortunately. He has lately come

to live here."

     The following passage in a letter from Sir james Simpson,
whose name is so honourably and inseparably connected with
the use of anaesthetics in surgical operations, refers to the Cave

work at Torquay and elsewhere.

                    Sir james Simpson to Bongo/4v.

     "Edinburgh,    October 31,    I865.--- .  _.  . I took    the liberty      of sending
    you yesterday   a copy of      the London                 Times, with        an article
to   `Sculpture in                                 jlledical
on                   Cave-halls,'    marked;   and I did so, knowing--as all

Iknow--that you have worked more successfully on              tyhIofeu,paeIrrccshhhaaoenuoclledogiafcenaeyll

secrets of caves than any other man living or dead.
sculptures are ever found in the various caves near
deeply obliged by any notice of them, however slight.                           have found

them now in four Fife caves. . . ."

     During his rambles Pengelly had noticed signs of ice-action
in Devonshire, which pointed to the probability that the climate
had at one time been much colder than at present.

                    f.Pengelly to Professor        B. juhes.

"Inote                                   "Lamorna, Torquay, October 6, 1865.                                  '

         have just seen,  DienvotnhsehirOe.ctobYeerarGseoalg. o,MIagw,asyoiunr   interesting
      on Glaciation in                                                          the district
Iyou mention, walking from Bampton to Porlock; when observed a
remarkable series of mouldings on an almost vertical rock surface,

                    * The celebrated novelist Lord Lytton.
164                        WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                       [CIL XI.

aadwjaacyesnidt etoh,oasntedlryonknthoewnr,ighIt-thhainndk,  side of the road, just before reaching
                                                             as the ` Rock Inn.' This cannot be
far from the spot you name. Is
                                                             it the same? I have never seen it
         bIuftyoituhhaasvferefiqvueenmtlyinuoteccsurtroedthrtoowmaewaasy,a Iprsohbaallblbee        of glacia
since,                                                                                       case   to know
tion.                                                                                        glad

whether or not it is the same as the case you mention."

     The following letters from Sir Charles Lyell, referring chiefly
to St. Michael's Mount and the change of level in land and

water on the Cornish and Devonshire Coasts, were received by
Pengelly during the summer and autumn of 1865. His answers
to the various queries in these letters are unfortunately missing

in several cases.

            Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

                                                             "53, Harley Street, May 11, 1865.

"Referring to your letter of November 3, 1864, I find the question
as to the date of my first mention of St. Michael's Mount, and
whether it was formerly in a wood, etc., and you say that in your next
address to the Nat. Hist. Society of Torquay you meant to allude to
         ISiarmH.goJainmg eosvehradpasgaeid32o3n
what                                              the subject.               and  should           be glad  to
      "                                           of the ` Principles,'

            for 1864 (I have                      that of                    or perhaps,          still better,
                                                   think                      have said           should be
             me whether you
Isee your address

if you would tell
                                                              1863),
                                                             what

altered or modified.

    " I enclose the page of last edition, lest you should not have it by
         and beg you will
you,"    Have you not in   return  it.                               of the       '
                            some   paper
                                                             spoken          submerged             vIegceatnanbolet
                                                                             was found?
stratum at Torquay, in which the elephant's tooth

find it in the papers you have given me."

            Pengelly to Sir Charles Lyell.

   I"My address                                              "Lamorna, Torquay, May 13, 1865.

was never printed.for      1864 to                the Torquay Natural History Society
                           send you               by this post thirteen pages of the MS.,
              I
            you will find all
in which     of St. Michael's          said                  about   Ioushr alsl ubbme ergglaedd  forests,  the
insulation                         Mount,                    etc.                                 to have   my

MS. again in a few days or a week. . . .                             in which     I speak of the
     "The paper about which you inquire,

Torbay submerged forest containing the elephant's tooth, was read at
            tsphhreainlltseubdbejeivncetrtyhmehoRarpeepaydfeurilflyfoittrreNcaaotnveedbmebinmeratdh1ee9,Mo1fS8.s6e4nr,voiwpcaeg.seen6tI.43p.reI snuYemoeeud
Bath, and
will find

not say I
Iyou are preparing a new edition of your ` Principles,' which
                                                                                                   am very
Iglad of. In looking over the paragraph on p. 323 (which enclose), it
appears to me that, since the submerged forests are more modern than
the ossiferous caverns which are now admitted to contain evidence of
the presence of man, it has ceased to be ` very remarkable' that `there
1863--1865.] SIR C. LYELL ON ST. MICHAEL'S MOUNT.                                                   I65

seems evidence    of the             submergence    habvyinmg anb.'eenI            effected, in     part at
least, since the                     was inhabited                                 think this,      the last
                  country
sentence of the paragraph, requires a slight modification. Perhaps all
that "isBenfeoerededconiscltuodisnugb, stiItutrteust`inyoteurewsiltlinegx'cufoser  ` remarkable.'
                                                                                   my calling your  attention
Ito a paper on `Recent Encroachments of the Sea on the Shores of

Torbay,' which read in Section "C.," British Association, at Manchester,
Iin 1861. It is printed in extenso in the Geologist for 1861, page 447, etc.

  was not favoured with proofs by the printer, hence there are a few

typographical errors, and Figs. 1 and 2 are atrocious."

                  Sir Clzarles Lyell to Pengelly.

                                                                   "53, Harley Street, May 15, 1865.

    "Your MS. has arrived, and I will return it by to-morrow's post.
IIt is well worth printing, and some day hope all these scattered papers
Iof yours, which value much, will be put together in a work on the
geology and modern changes of the district. . . .
     "This reminds me of the Brixham Cave meeting.                                         A previous
engagement made it impossible for me to attend it; my notice also was
"Imuch too short in this busy time in London.*

           think it possible that a low tract with wood may have been
swept away at St. Michael's Mount; but it probably had nothing to
do with the submerged forest, which, like that of Torbay, may have

belonged to the mammoth era.
     "How old do you imagine the Cornish language to have been?
Professor N ilsson, who is a much higher authority than Sir G. Cornewall
Lewis, believes that the Phoenicians had a tin trade with the Cassi

terides (as argued by Dr. George Smith) twelve hundred years B.C.,
and that their trade lasted a thousand years.
                                                                                   which   I shall cite on
     "After reading your paper in the Geologist,
the encroachments of the sea in Torbay, one cannot help wondering
that Ictis and St. Michael's Mount agree so well geographically, but
they must have been the same ; and it only gives one the more respect
for the antiquity 0f the Torbay elephant, to say nothing of the beach of
Hope's Nose, and the antecedent Kent's Hole and Brixham flint im

plements, and yours of the remoter glacial."

                  Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

                                                    " 53, Harley Street, May 22, 1865.

" I have  no summons                 toyetStf.roMmichthaeelB'srixMhaomuntC, aIveh,a1v'wehidcheterismsintreadngteo.
            are going                                                                      Mount at high
"As you                                                                                    of an artist to

send  loywouwtahteer,twwohvicihewsI  given by  Sir Henry James                     of the
and                                  was just  putting into the                    hands

reduce them to half their present size, in order that they may serve as
illustrations for the new edition of my ` Principles.'

      * Amongst Pengelly's papers reference is made more than once to the impossi
bility of his attending these committee meetings on the same account.

      1' Committee.
I66                              WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                     [Cl-I. XI.

     " I shall employ a good artist, who will put the figures, to give an
idea of different distances, out of his own head, and would make any
Iother alteration which you might suggest, if you would kindly criticize

the drawing on the spot. In the first place, learn from Sir H. James
that Plate I. was made from a           sImI.alwl aesngprraovdiuncgedsolbdy                                 at Penzance as a
heading to notepaper, and Plate                                                                             merely represent~

ing the water over the part which is overflowed at each tide.
    "Now,        if you
Plate 1., it                      could buy for  me    the original                                      from  which he took
                 might           be more nearly   the                                                   want,
                                                        size that I                                            if not exactly.
At any rate, it could not fail to be a great help to me.
                                                                                                                 I should also
be glad if you would tell me whether my friend Mr. Edward Bunbury is
right, and that the isthmus is made of rock (query, granite or slate                                                          P),

covered partially with sand and shingle.                                                         made of granite and clay
     "Also, Whether St. Michael's Mount
                                        ;
Tslat"e,the last  invaded by granite veins.                                              whether  certain      projections on
        fiz'rdl                                   iIs, is
                  It difficult to determine
I                                                              is
                             ,                                          it
                             is
the surface of the rock in the meridian A, B, are of stone, or meant, as

suppose, for bushes or trees.
     "Fourtfily, Is the great mass of bare rock under the castle granite
or slate? Is there some greenstone?
     "Fz'ft/zly, Does not the width of the isthmus here represented in

iPnlatPe"laStze'xtiIn/zIdl.yi,caattHeoordwvienramyraylnoywanfdweeaattteorh?figwhaetsetrI.

                                                                                          may    there  be  over  the  isthmus
                                                                                         tides?

     "Sweat/21y, The port which we see                                                           presume, the only one.
     "Mr. Bunbury, who has lately been at St. Michael's Mount, and

who     is       good archaeologist and scholar,                                                 quite convinced that the
           is a
mount the Ictis of Diodorus but he does not believe that in the last

two or three thousand years there could have been trees here.

     "As to the submerged forest in Mount's Bay, may be as old as the
Tor Abbey mammoth and Ba: langifronr, and of higher antiquity than

the Phoenician, even allowing that they traded with the Cassiterides a

thousand years or more 13.0.
     "Please to buy freely anything that may help my two woodcuts,

and send back the plates as soon as you can, and tell 'me what you
have spent. Return them also, should anything prevent you going to
St. Michael's Mount. would not trouble you with so many queries
did not think that the subject would interest you, and beg you willI                                              I
IInot go out of your way to answer them, as can put my case tolerably,C
     .I                                                                                  I                             I,

having seen the Mount long ago, even without the replies."                                                                     if

                                 Sir llarles Lyell to Pengelly.

     "                                                                                   " 53, Harley Street, June     1865.

          am very much obliged to you for the views and photographs, and

am glad that shall have your paper to refer to long before print what
                 I
have to say.        I            mean freely to use for illustration the materials you

sent me, including the small general view slightly clipt on the exterior.
. . Look at the fifth edition of Murray's `Handbook of Devon and
Cornwall,' in which there are some remarks on the waste of land in
Mount's Bay, not all of
                                 iIt,   think, in the fourth edition. »
1863--1865.] SIR C. LYELL ON GULF STREAM AND SAHARA. I67

    "In all estimates respecting the rate of waste in past times, we are

apt to err in not allowing for considerable pauses. Nature, having
infinite time at her disposal, proceeds in a most leisurely way, taking
up her operations with activity for a short spell, and then suspending
them for ages. In going along a coast where waste has occurred here
and there in the last five centuries, there would be long spaces where
no work of destruction has been done. To strike an average you must
take these areas of inaction into account."

                       Sir Charles Lyell t0 Pengelly.
                                                                         " Munich, July 26, 1865.
     I" . . .
               hear from Mr. john Carrick Moore that you have written
                             the Trade Winds, Gulf
                            separate copies so as to
Ian

As
     important paper about                             Stream,  Sahara, etc.
     you may not have had                              give me
depend on your telling me in what journal can buy               one, I shall

               I                                                for                                              a

                                                   it
                                                                                             it,
                                                                                              it
                                                                                                             is
subject which am working at. Is not singular that the hot water
of the Tropical Indian Ocean should, as we are told, flow round the
Cape of Good Hope across the Atlantic to Brazil, while the
the Gulf of Mexico flows north-west towards Polar regions?      water of

                                                                  If the
Equatorial Sea north of the Line sends its hot water towards Arctic

regions, the Equatorial Sea south of the Line ought to send its warm
water towards the Antarctic latitudes.
                                              suppose  the geographical
               if

                                        I

                                                                             it
                                                                                 is

                                                                                           I
conformation of the land and bottom of the sea that causes this different

behaviour of the southern and northern hot currents. If you have
been studying the Trade Winds you can perhaps enlighten me.

presume that, there were no such winds, the heated tropical waters

expanding and becoming lighter would flow towards the north, and

towards the south from the Equator, while cold undercurrents would
be flowing in opposite directions."

                       Pengelly t0 Sir Charles Lyell.

     "I "Lamorna, Torquay, August 1865.

          am afraid, from your remark, that Mr. John Moore attaches
                                                       0f

                                                                        6,

                                                                             ;'
undue importance to my brief communication on the Sahara, etc.
The facts are as follows. In the Quarterly journal Sa`ence for last
April, there        note from Rev. H. Ward, on `The connexion
              is       is               a I.
                                  a
between the supposed Inland Sea of the Sahara and the Glacial EpochIa
in which the author thinks most geographers think with him, that the

north-east trade wind    mainly caused by the Sahara. Believing this

to be an error sent to the editor note to that effect, which was
printed in the July number of the same journal. This the note to
                                              I

                                                           is

                                                          I
which Mr. Moore refers.     am sorry to say that have no reprints of
                         I
it,
                                a
     as the proprietors object to allow any to be struck off.   am some

times afraid that there may be tendency to overrate the unquestionable
influence of the Sahara on the Glaciers of the Alps. Can you, without

great inconvenience, let me know who has written on the subject, and
put me in a way to get sight of these writings?           should like to
                         a                             I

know (I) what the proof of the synchrony of the drying up of the
     is
             is
Sahara and the diminution of the Alpine Glaciers, and (2) whether
this proof more conclusive than that of the synchrony of the Glacial
ages in North America and in Europe.
168                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                             [CH. XI.

    I"My opinion on oceanic currents is of little or no worth; but, so

far as understand the question, it appears to me that were our world
entirely without dry land, and were the ocean everywhere of uniform
depth, the excessive heat of the tropics would produce both excessive
expansion and evaporation of the waters there ; but that the evaporation

would so much exceed the expansion, as to tend to empty the tropical
seas. This would cause a constant flow of water in both hemispheres

towards the equator, but in consequence of the earth's rotation, these
currents would move towards the south-west and north-west in the

northern and southern hemispheres respectively.                  The ascended

vapour would pass poleward, with the trade wind counter currents, in
north-easterly and south-easterly courses. But these effects would be
not only confirmed but augmented by the trade winds. By the intro
duction of land--varying in outline, in height, in horizontal extension,
and in thermal relations and qualities--and by the formation of
inequalities in the sea bottom, the scheme would be so overlaid every

where with modifications as to be scarcely recognizable. Nevertheless,

all other things being the same, the modifications would be least com
plicated in the hemisphere having the least land, or, more correctly,
least coast, hence we are entitled to expect, that in the southern
hemisphere there will on the whole be a more marked movement of
water towards the equator, than there is in the north. The Gulf of
Mexico is so well represented by the Bay of Bengal and the Chinese
Sea, that it may be expected that the thermal characters of the North
Pacific and  North    Atlantic will
Isotherms,   this is  the fact as    Ibehavveery  similar, and,  judging from  the
                                                  endeavoured    to show in    the

Quarterly journal of Science for January last. . . ."

                      Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

     IK` . . .                                          "53, Harley Street, October 6, 1865.
                write to ask you a question respecting the age of what
Mr. Godwin-Austen called New Red Sandstone in his paper on `The
Valley     of the English Channel,'
p. 97.     He says that subangular    Quart. four. Geol.  Soc. , vol. vi., 1850,
                                     blocks of porphyry    of large size show
agency of floating ice. In conversation he now tells me that what he
called New Red in Devonshire, in 1850, would probably now be more
correctly referred to the Permian period; in which case it would help
to confirm Ramsay's Permian glaciers. Do you think that the breccia
he alludes to is of Permian age? Does it appear to you, whatever be
           to have the characters of a glacial drift?
Iits age,  have read your paper in the Quarterly        journal  of Science    for
       "
July, which is very interesting. Is it admitted that the north-east trade
wind by raising the   Gulf of Mexico
to the Gulf Stream?                   (Ward       says  thirty   feet) gives origin

     "As to what you said of evaporation in tropical seas causing a loss
which currents from higher latitudes must supply, do not the heavy
tropical rains, sometimes equal in a day or two to our whole annual

rainfall,   supply the loss   by evaporation?           The moment  ysoou thaptassI
beyond     the tropics there  is a rapid diminution of rainfall,
doubt whether currents from temperate regions are much required, if
1863--1865.] PENGELLY'S VIEW AS TO THE GULF STREAM. 169

at  all,  on this  score;    but,    as it is a subject I have        not      studied    so much
as  you    have,              be
                   I should          glad of your opinion."

                             Pengellv to Sir Charles Lyell.

                                                             "Lamorna, Torquay, October 9, 1865.

    "In reply to your letter of 6th inst., I am happy to state, that the

"Iwhole grant of £200 was voted for Kent's Cavern at Birmingham.

         hold that the Breccias of which Mr. Godwin-Austen speaks are
of Triassic, not Permian age.
    "The reasons for this opinion are given in two of my papers--1st, ` The
TRed Sandstones and Conglomerates Of Devonshire,' Part I. Reprinted
Ifrom the ransaetions of the Plymouth Institution, 1861--2.                                                    See
pages 15 to 18. (I hope and believe that sent you a copy.                                                      On
page 18, line 3 from top, for `unstratified' read ` stratified'.) 2nd, ` On
the Age of the Dartmoor Granites.'                                    11 to 20 of the Geologist
                                                              Pages    It was read before the
for 1893. I had no reprints of this                           paper.
British Association at Manchester, and printed in abstract in the Report

Ifor1"861d,o   page   127,  etc.     agency   is  required      to, or would   account    for, the
                not         Ice
                     think
character of the breccia referred to. I have treated of this in my
seeond paper on `The Red Sandstones, Conglomerates and Marls of
                                              tIhesenTtraynosuacatiocnospy)P. lymSoeuethpagIensst1it6utaiondn
IDevonshire,'                         from                                                                     for
                                     believe                                                                   17,
1862--3 (of
               thirse, ptroinot,edI
where you will find that notice the large masses of porphyritic trap to
which Mr. Godwin-Austen refers. Pardon my saying that he does not,
as you appear to believe, speak of them as being `sub-angular.' So
far as my observations have gone, however, he is wrong in stating that
they are `included in sands and marls;' they are found only in very

"Icoarse beds.

          may remark here that in his memoir on the `Geology of the
South-east of Devonshire,' Trans. Geol. Son, 2nd series, vol. vi., part 2,
page 454, he says, `N o masses occur in the New Red Conglomerate
which exceed in size such as, during every gale, are removed by the
waves on our own coasts. The largest porphyritic blocks which fall
         the cliffs east of
i from"  In the foregoing    Teignmouth are soon transported                   away.'     Devon
                                                                               rocks of
                             papers I have supposed all the red
shire to be of the age of not only the Trias, but of the Bunter. In a.
I ItIhtirhdinpkatpheirs
               on these rocks, now            beingfeaprriIntsehdallatnPoltymgeotutha,ny    state why
               should be modified.
Ipitrofoorf'seovfesraolmweeoefkst,hebusht eIetss,enwdhicyhouI,                            reprints of

                                                              by this post, a  corrected `rough
                                                              have just found  in my wastepaper

basket, and which will show you what say on the point. See pages

37  to    39                                      of the Gulf                  Lieut.     Maury, in
     "
         With  reference to the origin                                Stream,
his `Physical Geography of the Sea' (1857), combats the opinion that
the trade winds are the cause of the Stream, but ascribes it to the

difference of density arising from difference of temperature between the
equatorial and polar waters. See chapter i. Sir J. Herschel says

` The dynamics of the Gulf Stream have of late, in the work of Lieut.
Maury already mentioned, been made a subject of much (we cannot
I70                             WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CI-I. XI.

but think misplaced) wonder, as if there could be any possible ground
for doubting that it owes its origin entirely to the trade winds.' See
` Ency.
60, or   Britannica,' 8th edit. (18 5 9), vol. xvii., page 578, paragraphs                    57 to
         better still, the article, ` Physical Geography,' corrected                            and
                                                                                           the Gulf
reprinted  as  a separate work. There can     be no doubt that
Stream is  at  least mainly due to the Trade  Winds. Though                                I do not

think the time has yet come when it would be possible to write the

Thermal History of the Earth, I am glad to find you are grappling with
                                                                               '
the question."

                                Sir Charles Lyell t0 Pengell .

                                                         "53, Harley Street, December 20, I865.

     " I have just been reading over again my references to your papers
on Torbay and St. Michael's Mount for my new edition, and referring
to a newspaper account or abstract of your Birmingham paper on the
IMount.        suppose that no detailed and authorized version of what
Ifyou communicated

so, please let me
                  to the        British Association   has yet been          I  printed.
                know.           The drift of your    argument, as               understood

you, was that the known rate of the waste of the coast was far too
slow to enable us to explain how the Mount could have been in the
midst of a wood within such a period as that in which the old Cornish

language was spoken. Therefore you concluded that a forest tract

which surrounded the Mount before the time of Diodorus Siculus must
have been submerged. In favour of the fact or probability of such a

sinking is the submarine stratum of vegetable matter with the stumps
of trees which borders the promontory of St. Michael's Mount. This
subsidence may have occurred shortly before the time of Diodorus,
whereas the other hypothesis of the waste of land by the waves of the

sea  "woTuhledredehmavaendbetewnenmtyantyhocuhsaanngdesyeoafrsl.ev.el.  .

                                                                        in  Post-pliocene  times on

this coast since the human period began, and the last of them may
have been shortly before the time of Diodorus ; and the same land as

that on which the Torbay mammoth lived, may have continued above
water long after the extinction of the mammoth, for most probably

people speaking the old Cornish language had no more acquaintance
with the mammoth than the lake-dwellers of Switzerland in the age of

ston"e,Stw. hMoiscehafealu'sna   did not include any of the             extinct mammalia.     that
                                Mount appears to me most                valuable, as showing
in a region where the monuments of Post-pliocene change are so rife,
and the proofs of oscillations of level so various, including the Torbay
coast as part of the evidence, there has nevertheless been no important
geographical change for nearly nineteen centuries. This does not
Ifsurprise you or me, because we are prepared to allow tens of thousands
of years for post-elephantine times.  any one could tell us that five
thousand or ten thousand years hence St. Michael's Mount would answer
to the description of Diodorus, we should not think that it implied a
suspension of those causes of subterranean movement or of waste which
in the course of ages have so often modified our south-western littoral

regio"nM. y chief desire is to know what you have done in the way of
1863--1865.] SIR C. LYELL ON ST. MICHAEL'S MOUNT.                        I71

Ipublication on this subject, and whether       understand correctly the

Iconclusions
    " I am
               you  announced   at Birmingham.  Friday  evening  at the  Royal
              glad  to see you  are to have a
Institution. Dr. Bence Jones has, think, obtained an unusally select
and good set of Friday evening lecturers."              `

                    Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

"I I I"53, Harley Street, December 27, 1865.
return you your MS., which have read with interest.                      quite

agree with the reasoning as to the vast period to which we should
have to go back in order to restore a tract of low land in Mount's Bay,
surrounding St. Michael's Mount. It seems to me also, that long before
Ithe time of Diodorus, the island was only rendered useful to the old

navigators because of its isolation, and am unwilling to give a late
                            of the Newlyn and other submarine
Idate to the  submergence   Torbay forest paper and the other     forests. .
I was glad    to have your                                       three papers,

which shall read, and probably refer to on a future occasion."
I72                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.                           [CI-I. XII.

                         CHAPTER XII.

                         PROGRESS OF EXPLORATIONS.

                                                           1866 TO 1868.

IN the spring of 1866 Pengelly had the pleasure of a visit from
his friend Professor Harkness. In the following July he visited
the scene of the marks of glaciation mentioned by Professor
Jukes in a previous letter, and found that these "glacial traces "
were nothing of the kind.

                         Prafessor Robert Harkness 1`0 Pengelly.

                                                      " Queen's College, Cork, April 22, 1866.

     I I"After left you had an excellent day for seeing the country
                                                Plenty of South dips in the slates
Ibetween Dartmouth and Torcross.                 found your fossiliferous grit near

which continue nearly to Slapton.
IBeasands, and have no doubt of its being in the Middle Devonian
shales.           was not more fortunate than yourself as regards fossils, for on

tIhehawvehonleo,  mine   were more disturbed by cleavage than your   specimens.
                  faith  in the Metamorphic rocks of Devonshire.       Those of
Start Point and the neighbourhood, are, I believe, nothing more than
Middle Devonian schists which have been terribly contorted and fear

fully smashed up, sometimes along cleavage and sometimes along

bedding planes; and which have become perfectly saturated with quartz
veins. From this conclusion it follows that the oldest rocks in Devon

shire are those of the Lynmouth axis. I should very much have liked
to have seen the Cornish rocks of Veryan Bay and the neighbourhood,
Iffor something interesting must occur there showing the mode in which
the Devonians overlie the Carodoc sandstones.                        it be that Middle

Devonians occur here, then the Devonian base has yet to be made out.

I must see Cornwall. Try to get the British Association either to
Plym" oNuoththionrg Exneewterhaesresoionn
                                            as  possible.  geology.  In about six weeks I
                                           the  way of

shall be again at work in the Lake Country."

                                            Pengelly 2`0 111': Vsze.

   I" Torquay, fuly 6, 1866.-- . . . was very glad to get your nice

letter this morning. You will be glad to hear, leastways you ought to
1866--1868.] ABSENCE OF GLACIATION IN DEVONSHIRE.                                               173

be, that I have been enjoying myself very much. Judge by the follow

ing narrative.

     " Tuesday--Reached St. David's Station, Exeter, at 3.15. Found
Vicary there. We took North Devon train to Crediton. Walked
to Yeoton and Pasbury to see the Traps (i.e. Volcanic rocks). Very
fine sections, conclusively showing the Feldspathic traps of Devon to be
of strictly Triassic age. Plenty of rain and mud. Got back to Inn at
Crediton Station. Took tea there, returned to Exeter.

     " Wednesday--Scott called. We rejoiced together over the resigna
tion of Ministers. Cause why,                                                      thorough Reform
Bill, by waiting a year or two.   we shall have  a more                            by the 9.45 train
                                                 started
                                  Vicary and I
for Tiverton. Drove thence to Bampton to see the lime-quarries there.
Drove thence to Rock Inn to see the marks of Glaciation mentioned

                  Mag. in October last.     You will remember
                 Inn was offered by the     landlord board and
Iby Jukes in Geol.                                                                          that it
                                                                                           lodging
was at the Rock
for nothing, if  I would talk to
                                  the men  who would be attracted by my
blarney. This    happened years            inquired tenderly after the said
                                  ago. I

landlord, but he has gone away. Well, Jukes's `Glacial traces' are
nothing of the kind, that's perfectly clear. What are they, then ? Why,
                                                                                       in the
nothing but slickensides. Really and truly nothing else                            I    don't   world.
Well, but what are slickensides. To tell you the truth,                                         know.

Oh dear! oh dear! 'tis very sad to have one's faith in everything and
everybody oozing away. Well, no, not everybody. There's my wife
left. We drove back to Tiverton, eighteen miles, by the side of the

Exe, a glorious drive, you ought to have been there.

     " Thursday--Took trap and drove to Slantycoombe, to see Trias
Outlier mentioned by De la Beche. Could find no trace of it. Quite
clear that De la Beche made a great blunder. At any rate, we said so,
until an old man, whom we casually met, showed us the precise locality !
Thence we drove to Westleigh, to examine the extensive limestone

quarries there. These quarries are distinctly seen, and are at no great
distance from the Bristol and Exeter Railway between Tiverton Road
and the long tunnel, and on the right of the road. This done we
drove back to Tiverton Road, where we took train for Exeter, which
I Iwe reached about seven. After tea came a rest and a chat, and at
ten  "  started  for home, where arrived about twelve.
                 just had an invitation from Samuel Morley
        I have                                                                     to  be  his  guest

during the meeting of the British Association at Nottingham. . . ."

     During this meeting, Pengelly received the following amusing
petition from Mr. Salter, imploring him to do justice to a Report
which he and Mr. Hicks were sending in on their latest labours.

                 j. W. Salter to Pengelly.

                                            " St. David's, August 18, I866.

     "We have tried to get Harkness to read our condensed Report
           and section) of  Hicks's latest                                         Don't let Harkness
(with map                      or read      labours.                                room--as the life
murder     or abbreviate                    to half
         it,
                                        it,
                                                       It
                                                                                a
I 74                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                        [CH- XII.

of the undersigned--of Mr. Hicks, of Mr. Lightbody, of the section,
and the whole civilized world depends upon and is based upon the
IMenevian and
                 Arenig groups.                all  your  own    bones  and      caves aside,
     " Indeed,   think you may put
in order to read this with effect. It has been strained three times, and

ought to have no dregs left. So do it justice, or justice shall be done
upon you ! Look at the map ! Only think what it cost to make it! It
j.is full of faults, but they are the fault: of St. David's Head, and notof

[flats or W. Salter.
     "D0 try to see Harkness and               know if he        will             He has a
special liking for Skiddaw rocks.                                you,  read it.   And Mr.
                                               If not, do              please.

Lightbody will, we know, unpack the fossils, and see they are packed

again for Jermyn Street."

     The exploration of the cavern was going on satisfactorily,
and sufficient funds were now in hand to carry on the work for
another year.

                         Pengelly to Sir C/zarle: Lyell.

   I"Herewith                                             " Torquay, Oct. I, 1866.

which you will      send you the Sixteenth                RceopmomrtunoicfatPer.ogreIss,cafnronmot
                 find there is very little to

help thinking, however, that the paucity--almost total absence--of
Bones in that part of the Cavern adjacent to, and lying immediately

between, the two external entrances is a remarkable and interesting fact.
IIt would have been very discouraging, however, had it presented itself
at the commencement of our researches. The Report                                 read at
Nottingham was well received and excited a great amount of interest.
IIt has been printed in extenso in one of the Torquay newspapers, and a

few reprints have been struck off, of which send you a copy by this
post. At Nottingham Mr. Busk was added to the Committee, and a
further grant of £roo was voted by the General Committee. Of the
former grant about £75 remain, so that we shall have sufficient funds to
        us through another year.
carry"  The application made by                Messrs.    Boyd 'Dawkln_ s    and  W. A.

Sanf"orId  was referred to Mr. Busk.                    with as
                                       to Mr.           so that
all the    propose to    sbeonndesupI   have    Busk,            little delay as  possible,
           identifiable                        by me,            we may hope      that our

Report next year will contain a list of all the animals whose remains we

have met with."

     The Chair of Geology at Glasgow being at this time vacant,
Pengelly was urged by some of his friends to become a candidate.
Finding from his friend Professor Joseph Lister,` however, that
Zoology was also included, he renounced the idea, and wrote

as follows to Sir Charles Lyell in 1866 :--"I at once decided, of
course, not to become a candidate, and, truth to tell, I should

                                              * Now Lord Lister.
1866--1868.]  THE NOVEMBER METEORS OF 1866.                    I75

regret having to leave my studies in Devonshire Geology. I
wish the Government would endow a Chair (perhaps a camp
stool would be more suitable) of Vagabondage in,this county,

and appoint me to it."

     Pengelly was often amused at the different hypotheses
suggested by visitors to the Cavern, as to how it had become
tenanted by its various occupants. The following extract from
a letter from the late Martin Farquhar Tupper, who was
desirous to visit the Cavern under the explorer's own guidance,

shows his ideas on the subject such as were perhaps at that
time not very uncommon :--

" . . . I lunch with Mr. Wollaston on Saturday, and I'll see if I
Ican induce him to join us for a Monday visit to Kent's Hole.
                                                               want
to verify how far there can be room in the entrances for wild beasts,
other than thin hyenas, to have got in bodily. Probably the elephants
and rhinoceroses, etc., were pulled in piecemeal to be eaten--relics of

the flood. . . ."

     Between the years 1864 and 1869 there were fine displays
of the Leonid Meteors, the maximum showers occurring in 1866.

                   Mar. Pengelly Ia her Sister.

     "Mr/ember 14, 1866.-- - . . We are all so excited about ,the
Meteors, we can talk of nothing else--last night was brilliantly clear,

I saw several, but nothing very striking till eleven o'clock, when there
was a pretty constant succession, many of them with beautiful trains,
one really magnificent, of a deep blue colour, like a brilliant lamp, with

a glo"riIoussuppcoosmee, t-hliokwe evtearil,. that I did not see the finest part of the shower,

for Mr. Vivian came up, and would have William go down with him
at twelve o'clock, to a capital spot on Walden Hill, where he had tea

provided, and they had a grand time watching the splendid spectacle.
William came back in ecstasies a little after four o'clock. He thinks

they must have seen about four a second, on an average, and not less

than fifteen thousand during the time they were observing; many were
very beautiful meteors--the train of one was visible for ten minutes.
The grand shower seems to have come later in the night than
was expected. Mr. Richards was their companion--a good local
astronomer--and they all agreed, should they be living at the next
occurrence of the shower in thirty-three years, to meet at the same spot.*

Wiliiam gave a lecture on the subject last Monday, and great has been
               and wonder with many that his predictions
the surprise                                               have been so
wonderfully   verified. I suppose if it had been a wet or   cloudy night,
he would not have gained so much credit. Our friend and neighbour,
Miss Otté, was much amused by her gardener saying to her this

* All three have passed away before the return of the shower looked for in 1899.
I76                             \VILLIAM PENGELLV.            '  [CPL XII.

morning, `Oh, ma'am, did Mr. Pengelly make all those stars come
last night?' He had heard William had foretold the shower, and
thought that was the way of accounting for the phenomenon. . ."

                       Sir Cllarlzr Lyell to Pengelly.

                                " Harley Street, London, W., December 7, 1866.

     ". . . If you really think that any case has been made out to
invalidate the conclusion that St. Michael's Mount is the true Ictis
of Diodorus, please tell me when you next write. Not that it will be
of any use to me now, as my volume is published. But it will be a
                                           pretensions of any
satisfaction to know something  about the   you will allude to   other   spot
on the coast to -such a claim.                                    it in  your
                                I suppose

lectu"reWs,e  for  the subject  belongs to the theme which    you have chosen.
              are  very much    interested in your letter to  Miss Coutts on the

meteoric shower, by far the best account we have seen."

     The following letter will show how gladly Pengelly welcomed
discriminating criticism :--

                                f.Pengelly 10 Enyr.

                                "Lamorna, Torquay, December 5, 1866.

"Thank you very much for the copy of your paper which you were

so good as to send me.

     "Those of us who hold (what may be called) the prevalent opinion
respecting `implements' and `flakes' of flint, are much indebted to
those who will print such objections as they may entertain. We shall

observe and reason all the more accurately from a knowledge that the

"Iable and critical eyes of an opponent are upon us.
             have sometimes thought that the vast difference between an
`implement' and a `flake' is not sufficiently borne in mind. The
existence of the former, whether polished or not, is a clear indication
of the existence of the latter; since a polished implement must have
first been chipped into shape, and in this process flakes, larger or
Ismaller, must have been struck off. The converse proposition is not
necessarily true, since Nature can and does form flakes.         do not

enter into the question, whether or not it is possible to distinguish

between natural and artificial flakes.

     "Artificial flakes, in themselves, do not appear to me to possess
any chronological value. They do not define any period. It is well
known that man, in various stages of civilization, makes flint implements,
and in so doing necessarily produces flakes. The former, so to speak,
                        of his individual mental culture; the flakes do
bear the      impress  reason why in Britain, flakes may not be of any   not.
              see no                                                     age,
Hence I
from the advent of man on her soil, up to or even far beyond the

Roman invasion. . ."

     The question of the Antiquity of Man was now exercising
the minds of theologians as well as men of science, and to this
1866a1868.] IMPORTANT DISCOVERIES IN KENT'S CAVERN. 177

Sir John Bowring alludes in the postscript of the following
letter :--

    Sirfohn Bowring to Pengelly.

''  "Claremont, Exeter, December 25, 1866.

   I I". . . I have written to Mr. Harpley . . . about my copies of the

Paper on Devonshire Dialects. As soon as get them, shall have
very great pleasure in sending one to Mr. Earle, gratified that he deems

"I Iit worthy of his notice.
           am sorry that cannot be at Torquay on the rst, when your
working people have asked me to preside; but it is our Quarter
ISessions, and had                              have
Iof the old teaching.                           gain
ano`Tthoerweisnhgamgeomreenvtirt(utheis   may         a   new rendering
                                         is to        ;"      say, to wish

more freedom is to gain). The wish is father to the thought, and to
the eertainty of success.

    "P.S.--Is it not amusing to see the bishops so complaisantly and
so effectually knocking one another down? Oh you geologists!
Great are your responsibilities, you turbulent troublers of ecclesiastical

serenities ! "

     The Cavern was now yielding a large quantity of teeth,
bones, and other interesting remains. Thus the Report of
February, 1867, after mentioning that 165 Flint Flakes and
Chips had been found during the preceding month; and that

amongst the bones there was one that had been fashioned into
a " Harpoon," thus continues--

    " In the stalagmitic floor there was found, on January 3rd, part of

a human upper jaw with four teeth (right side), and one loose tooth

(`Find 1930'). Identifiable bones and teeth of the ordinary cave
mammals, though by no means very numerous, have been met with in
the red cave-earth. The most remarkable object, however, which the
red deposit (cave~earth) has yielded is a well-finished bone pin. . .
This interesting object was found in the fourth foot-level below the
granular stalagmitic floor, which was twenty inches thick, and extended
continuously in every direction, to considerable distances. It was
found on January the 31d, and was lying with an unwom molar of
Rhinoe'eros tiehorhinus. It is not uninteresting to observe again that
in the Black Band, four feet immediately above this specimen, there
were remains of the hyaena and other common cave mammals. . . ."

    M's. Pengelly to her Sister.

    " Torquay, April 25, 1867.-- . . . We had a delightful visit a few
days since from Dr. Tait, Bishop of London.* He was accompanied

by Mrs. Tait and their son--and we had a deeply interesting discussion
on the Antiquity of Man question. The bishop listened to all the
information William gave him with marked attention. He has visited

* Afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury.

                                                          N
I 78                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                             [CIL XII.

the cavern with William, besides taking some other geological rambles
with him, all of which appear to have much pleased him, as well as
viewing the fossils at our house. Both he and Mrs. Tait pressed us
warmly to visit them in London.

     "Last evening Miss Coutts gave a dinner-party for him at the
Imperial Hotel, to which many were invited, and we saw a good deal
of Dr. and Mrs. Tait. We had a short but very pleasant visit yester
day from Captain Douglas Galton,* Mr. Godwin-Austen, Mr. Gwyn
JeHreys, and Mr. Prestwich'l' to view the cavern. They were extremely
interested with all ' they saw. Several remarkable things have been

found lately."

     During the spring of 1867 Pengelly delivered a course of
lectures at the Royal Institution.

                         Pengelly to leis Wife.

      "London,    20,   Nortfiumberlarza'  Street, April 5, r867.-- . . . I have
       finished  my
                       third lecture. I    satisfied myself. The audience was
Ijust
large and well pleased, think. This morning Tennant took Vicary
and me to the Zoological Gardens. Tell dear Trottie that we gave a
leg bone to the striped hyaena to see how he would break it. The
keeper pretended to take it from him, and he laughed fearfully. We
saw lots of monkeys, swinging about on ropes, amongst them a
Chimpanzee and an Orang Outang, and in the nursery we saw a little
baby Orang. We saw several pretty kangaroos carrying their little
ones about, and a huge hippopotamus swimming about in its pond,

and a seal in another."

                        Sir C/zarler Lyell t0 Pengelly.

                                                                   " 73, Harley Street, May 29, 1867.

   "I am much obliged to you for the copies of your lectures, which
Iare to me particularly interesting, and rejoice you are to reprint them

under another title.
      "                of the verbal reports
your     From some                               made to me of what you                                                said in
                         gathered that you         objected to something                                               in my
         lectures, I

nomenclature     oAfsthIeaTmerbtiyarnieos--meinansregsaartdisfiteod  Pleistocene,                         Post-pliocene,
and Recent.                                                            myself on                          these matters,
Ih` aAsvnheto,iuqoludfitcyboeuorsfterM,ulayrnea,g'dlaadwndhaoptfaIgaenhya1v0ce8ri,tsiac`iisdEmleinmfereonxmtpsl,a' naa6ttfihroinee,nddilatyitonpq,augaaernstedr5.naontedYot6uo,
Ithat last page-- how that adopt Lubbock's Palaeolithic and Neolithic
(` Principles of Geology,' 10th ed.,
                                                 p.' 176 and         annodte)t,hatanId                                  that the
                                                 176, ibizl),
                                                  am aware                                                             speak of
Reindeer period intervenes (see            p. I

IGlacial and Post-glacial periods.
                                                                     that, if asked what
Imean by ` Recent,' may not be able to give a very clear answer.
      "I have, however, carefully avoided the use of Pleistocene in all
my writings almost from the day I first started in order not to render
         *
                                                                                   it,

                                                                                                      1'
the confusion greater.

         Now Sir Douglas Galton.                                                                          Sir Joseph.
1866--1868.] PRESIDENT OF THE DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION. I79

   "I shall be glad to know what terminology you find to be most

practically useful, as you have been working so well in these modern
d1v1sions of- time."

                 Pengelly l0 Sir Charles Lyell.

                                     I"Lamorna, Torquay, june 3, 1867.
I"Thank you very much
                          for your kind letter of 29th ult.                                   re

member that, on two occasions in my lectures, said a word or two
Irespecting the Nomenclature of the Tertiary and Quaternary deposits.
On one occasion  stated that I used `Canozoic' in the sense in

which Professor Phillips used as embracing both the Tertiaries and
Quaternaries, and that preferred this to the more restricted sense in
                 it,
which you used                       thought more consonant with its
                   I
                              I it,
                 being as
etymology. The other occasion had reference to the word Pleistocene,'
when expressed the wish that Messrs. Dawkins and Sanford had in
is                                               I
                                                                      `
     I
their `Pleistocene Mammalia' abstained from the use of the word

altogether, in accordance with your suggestion.  believe the foregoing

the substance of what stated.        am somewhat inclined to hesitate
                 I
                             I

before adopting Lartet's `Reindeer Period.' From the evidence found
in this district, the mammoth was living during the growth of the forests
now submerged, and the reindeer during the much earlier time of Brix
ham Cavern. Lubbock's Palaeolithic' and Neolithic appear to me to

be singularly happy. If our terms were to apply to our own and higher
North latitudes only, orif `
                                                                  `
                                                                                           '

                                                                   I
                          the whole world had been glaciated, at

present incline to the thought that all present and probable requirements
would be met by the terms Iron Age, Bronze Age, Neolithic Age,
Palaeolithic Age, Glacial Age, Newer Pliocene, etc."

     In 1867 Pengelly was invited to become President of the
Devonshire Association, in succession to Lord John Russell, and
was followed by the well-known Devonian, Lord Coleridge,
in 1868. The meeting over which he presided was held at
Barnstaple, and proved a very successful gathering. His
address was chiefly devoted to the Geology of Devonshire, and
opened with the following paragraphs :--

" ....     somewhat usual--perhaps desirable --on occasions like the
           It

               is
                                                                      a

                                                                            a

                                                                                it it
                                                                                                 it

                                                                                                                                 a
present, for the opening address to contain summary of the prominent
facts in the history of Science, Literature, and Art during the preceding
twelve months. It would be easy for me to follow this practice, for the
period since we met last has been by no means unproductive of
important scientific events. Not only has the problem of laying an
electric cable across the Atlantic been brilliantly solved, but has been
shown that a cable which has been lost year, in an ocean upwards of

two miles deep, can be recovered, carried to its destination, and
rendered perfectly available for the purpose for which was originally

intended.
"Less than four centuries ago America was discovered, after
voyage of seventy days from Europe-a voyage, be remembered,
   180                            WILLIAM PENGELLY.                      [CH. XII.

   undertaken by a scientific man, and an enthusiast, who, by almost all
   the respectabilities, was denounced as a madman or a knave. Thanks
   to Science the voyage can now be performed in ten days, and we can
   send a thought across the Atlantic in a few seconds.
        "And by what step-by-step process have the sciences which com

   mercial enterprise has thus enlisted in her service reached their lofty
   positions! The Utilitarian may with advantage remember that truths

   which he has applied to eminently useful purposes, have frequently had
   a very protracted infancy. The Chaldean shepherd detected a few
   wandering bodies amongst the stellar hosts thousands of years before                                   I
   Astronomy was capable of presenting to -the navigator the priceless gift
   of a method of determining his longitude by lunar distances. It was
   disc0vered in early times that a force existed which was capable of
   making amber attract light substances ; but a hundred generations of men
   had to pass away before it was ascertained that this same force could
   carry a message round the world with a speed outstripping that of light.
   That steam could move a toy, was known when our British ancestors
   were savages ; but it was not until the time of our own generation that
   it was found to be equal to the propulsion of sea-going ships. Within
   the quadrangle of the British Museum, there formerly lay a fine example
   of the ship of the aborigines of this island--the trunk of a tree, hollowed
   out probably with the aid of fire and flint implements; the application
   of scientific principles has transformed her into the Great Eastern.

   During their growth and development, these principles and truths were

   but lightly esteemed, and their votaries were sometimes allowed to

   starve; but without them the Atlantic cable would never have been

   heard of.

        "Though we ardently admire, and are eminently proud of the
   application of scientific principles to purposes of general utility,
   especially in a world where, in the vast majority of cases, the businesr
   of life is to secure the mean: of life, it is probable that, notwithstanding
   its fascinating and important achievements in telegraphy, 1866 will be
   chiefly remembered as the year of the great meteoric shower. Those

I  who  were   so fortunate as to witness the gorgeous spectacle displayed on
   the  night
                of the I 3th-r4th of November must have been deeply
   impressed, not only with the splendour of the scene, but with the
   universality of law, the dignity of science, and the existence of faculties,
   aspirations, and cravings which lie beyond the reach of mere

   utilit"arAiatntrisamct.ive as  are the topics  I have named, as well   as many others
   contained in the               budget of the   last twelve months, I  have decided to

   give my address a completely local character, and to aim at nothing
   more than a statement of the                   ptohsiistiodnecoisfioonpinIionmaryespheacvteingbetehne
   Geology of Devonshire. In      present
                                  making

   unwise, but a people's history depends so largely on their mental

   Idevelopment, and this is so closely connected with their avocations,

   which in their turn so distinctly hinge on the nature of the soil, that
   Ihave been unable to persuade myself that to any one likely to attend

   such a meeting as the present, the theme have selected would prove
   utterly uninteresting. Whether the dwellers in a district were to be
   farmers, miners, manufacturers, or caterers for the comforts and
1866--1868.]    FUTURE GEOLOGICAL PROBLEMS.            I8I

pleasures of visitors, was predetermined by the agents which, at various
periods of the remote past, produced the geological characteristics by
winch they are surrounded. To a large extent their history was pre
wrltten on their rocks. . . ."

After a lengthened review of the various geological

phenomena of the county, the address concludes thus--

" It must be unnecessary to remark that the time has by no means

arrived when the Devonshire geologists can suspend their labours.
There remain many unsolved problems within our borders. We still
ask, `What is the age of the Crystalline Schists at the southern angle of
our county? What is the precise chronology of our Limestones and
associated rocks? Is there, east of Exmouth, a break in the Red rocks?

Whence come the Budleigh Salterton pebbles? Whence also the
Porphyritic Trap nodules so abundant in the Trias? Are our Green
sands really of the age of the Gault? Whence the flints so numerous
on our existing beaches? What is the history of our Superficial
Gravels? Are there any indications of Glaciation in Devonshire ? To
what race did our Cave Men belong?' The solution of, at least,
Imany of these questions must be reserved for another generation of
inquirers, and to the young men of the present day     earnestly

commend them."

     In 1867 the British Association met at Dundee, where
Pengelly was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Walker, to whose
kindness he often referred as making the visit a most agreeable

one.

     In the Report on the explorations of Kent's Cavern for this
year, which he read before the meeting, he says--

      " The committee venture to entertain the opinion that the evidence
which the last twelve months have put into their possession renders it
impossible for any one to doubt that man occupied Devonshire when
it was also the home of the extinct lion, hyaena, bear, rhinoceros,
mammoth, and their contemporaries.

    "Of the tools alluded to, two have already been mentioned--the

bone awl and the `harpoon' found in the Black Band, beneath the
stalagmitic floor, in the Vestibule. As has been stated, in this same
thin band there occurred, with the implements just mentioned, teeth
of rhinoceros, hyaena, and other of the common cave mammals; and
the story they tell is at once clear and resistless. These, however, are
neither the only, nor the best, bone implements which have been ex
humed. Two others have been met with, and both of them in the
Red Cave-earth, below the Black Band. One is a portion of a highly
finished `harpoon,' two and a quarter inches in length, and differing
from that previously mentioned, in the form of its point, and in being
barbed on two sides. To use a botanical term the barbs are `oppo
site,' not `alternate,' as is the case with many of the doubly-barbed

implements of the kind found in certain French caverns. It is worthy of

                \ ~~.w_v__~ "myx ._._ _ raw-vm"...
182  WILLIAM I'ENGELLY.  [CH. XII.

remark that whilst in France the same cavern has rarely, if ever, yielded

both singly and doubly barbed `harpoons,' an example of each kind
has been found in Kent's Hole. This implement was met with on
March 18, 1867, in the Vestibule, in the second foot-level of Red
Cave-earth. Vertically above these two feet of loam, there lay the
Black Band about three inches thick, and containing flint flakes and
remains of extinct mammals; over this again came the stalagmitic
floor, eighteen inches thick, granular towards its base, crystalline and
laminated towards the upper surface, continuous in all directions, un
questionably intact, and without fracture or crevice of any kind; and
superposed on this was the ordinary Black Mould, with Romano~
British potsherds. Like all bones found in the Cave-earth, the
` harpoon,' when applied to the tongue, firmly adheres to it. It has the
condition which, from the spot it occupies, might have been looked for."

    A bone needle, partially covered with stalagmite, was also

found during the year's exploration, 1866-7. [See Rep. Brit.
Assoc, 1867.]

    A fracture may be observed in the eye of the bone needle,

the history of which is somewhat remarkable. When discovered
it was perfect. The news of the finding of so extraordinary an

object created very considerable interest, and Pengelly was asked,
by a lady, to exhibit this great curiosity to her guests at an

"At Home." With his usual urbanity, he consented, and was at

much pains during the evening in showing and explaining his
treasure. When curiosity had been exhausted, and the .needle

was again safely in his pocket, his hostess came up suddenly,
with, "Oh, Mr. Pengelly, would you let me have the bone

needle for a few minutes to show to Lord Lytton, who has just
arrived?" With characteristic confidence and good nature,
Pengelly gave his jewel into the lady's hands. In the course
of ten minutes it was restored to him, torn from the card on

which it had been gummed down, threaded through the card,
pin-wise, and the eye broken off and missing. Remonstrance
or scolding he felt would be futile, and for the short time he
remained in the room, Pengelly had to conceal his mortification
and distress as well as he might. As he would relate the story,

"I went home, lay awake all night, and took counsel with one

whose wit rarely failed to be of use to me in any difficulty--my
wife." Her advice was that he should make his way to the
house ere the family were astir, seek out the head-chambermaid,

and, explaining to her what was missing, should offer a hand
some gratuity for its recovery. This was done, and, his mission
of explanation accomplished, he took an anxious half-hour's
BONE NEEDLE AND OTHER PRE-HISTORIC  IMPLEMENTS.  [To/211215. 182.
1866--1868.] THE FRACTURED EYE OF THE BONE NEEDLE. 183

stroll by the sea. On his return to the house, his eager enquiry
was met by the production of the fragment, which he joyfully
changed for a. half-sovereign. But for this happy recovery more
than half the interest of one of the most important discoveries
in Kent's Cavern would have been lost, for it would have been
useless to explain that it had once been a needle with an eyelet.

     The following letter from his old and valued friend Robert
Chambers, reached Pengelly during his visit to Dundee, and

shows that Dr. Chambers' last illness was then beginning.

                          Dr. Robert Chambers to Pengelly.

                                    "6, Gillespie Terrace, St. Andrews, September 3, 1867.

    "If, as is likely, you join the excursion party to this city on

Saturday, please to become my guest here till the Monday morning,

"Iand join me in a drive to Dura Den on the Sunday afternoon.
           am not strong enough in health to go into the turmoil of the

BA. at Dundee, but am alive enough for the proposed hospitality.
A little paper about an Eskrr at St. Fort, near Newport, is herewith

enclosed, with a request that you will read it."

    In acknowledging the receipt of some papers sent to him by
Pengelly, Professor Beete Jukes states his views as to the
distribution of fossils.

                    Prof. Beete fake: to Pengelly.

                    " Geological Survey of Ireland, Dublin, October 29, 1867.

     "Many thanks for your packet of papers. The one on the dis
tribution of fossils will be useful to me n0w. You have, however, one

little imperfection in your table, viz. putting the word Coomhola, to
represent all our carbonif. slate; this would be tantamount to putting
the word ` Marwood ' to represent all the Devonian. Cyn'z'na heteraclita,
for instance, on which Davidson had no doubt, till he heard it occurred
in the same bed with Pfiillzfsia pustulafa, does not occur in the Coom
hola grits, but at least three thousand feet above them, in the black slates

and calc. bands which doubtless represent your Torbay beds, and the
Pilton, and the Ilfracombe. Coomhola grits are merely scattered beds
of sandstone, up and down in the carboniferous slate, but more at

bottom than elsewhere, sometimes twenty feet thick only; that                                                          the
                    it
                        a is

                                                                                                                  is,
carb. slate, where  three thousand or four thousand feet thick, will

only have one bed of brown sandstone full of the Marwood cucullaeas

and five or six other beds of similar rock, but with no fossils, above and

below it. But in following the strike of those beds, other beds of grit, grey
and brown, will come in above and below, and gradually they will get so

numerous as to form great feature, chiefly grits, two thousand or three

thousand feet thick, with cucullaeas, etc., scattered up and down them,
but interstratified with black slates, and having two hundred feet of
I 84                        WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                               [Cl-l. XII.

black slates below them, full of encrinites and a lot of other fossils of

the   "saTmoeucshpiencgies   as those in the    slates five thousand feet    higher.
                            fossils, will you   favour me with putting         side by
                                                                                            side

Davidson's descriptions of sz'rifera striata land Spirzfera dz'sjuneta 2
Read them out aloud sentence by sentence, first one and then the other,
picking the sentences in the Devonian part, so as to bring the descriptions
of similar parts in the same order.

    "Will you then tell me the amount of specific difference you can

extract from these descriptions, of those parts which are described in

both"PAfter that will you take the figures, and, comparing the differences
among the five figures of Sp. striata and those among the twenty figures
of Sp. dzlsjnneta, will you tell me whether any greater difference is dis
cernible in comparing the figures of the two speez'es, than is discernible

in th"eThfigeuroenslyofcoenitshtearntonceha?racter I can discern in Sp. disjuneta to dis

tinguish it from Sp. striata is that the former seems more finely stnated

than the latter. Is that worth making a specific difference? Is not

      "veCrnaenuiylioi u0rapdpz'rsejucniaettea  just a variety Sp. strz'ata
                                                 any difference between
ISp.                                                                         7              eaperata
or produetoides and Produeta serabieula?
                                                                             Strop/lalosia

                                                                        can't, neither can a good

many people.
     "These
facts, which         are but hints of the modifications                 of the palaeontological
                                                                        application of the true
                     will, I believe, be the result of the

stratigraphical interpretation.
     " Upper, Middle, and Lower Devonian are all bosh!
      "There is but one fossiliferous group, the species being scattered
irregularly and capriciously as they are in carboniferous limestone, Upper
Silurian, etc., etc.; certain species, however, being only found in par
ticular kinds of rock or in particular localities, just as certain living
shells are now.

    "My recent examination of South Devon has swept away all my

doub"tsThaendOhldesRiteatdionS.andstone lies under all your fossiliferous Devonian,

coming up here and there, through faults or inverted folds, and over

lapped occasionally by the carboniferous slate, which stretched across
it with a ridge of Silurian slate round Veryan Bay, which has been tilted
up and inverted on to the Devonians by the very same line of inversion
which runs from Dartmouth, through Plymouth Harbour, to the Dodman
and thereabouts. The southern borders of the Plymouth limestones
are inverted, and dip at the beds which lie under them--our Coomhola

grits, etc."

     In January of 1868 Pengelly delivered two lectures at
Newcastle-on-Tyne.

                                                Pengelly to his Wz'fe.

      I"Newcastle, january 23, r868.-- . . . My second lecture is over.
tohningTsueIssdaawy       studied this good town somewhat, and               among          other
                     the old castle, which when new gave a name              to the         town.
1866--1868.]  LECTURES AT NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.                                           185

It contains a very large collection of antiquities, mainly derived from
the old Roman wall. In the evening my host's sister, Miss Richardson,

Ihad a rather large party, of which was a fraction. The evening was
Ivery pleasant. Yesterday accompanied my kind host, D. Richardson,
to see a large collection of local fossils, made by, and the property of,
a Mr. Astley, a small country shopkeeper. It proved to be a really
splendid, probably unique, series of carboniferous fish, many of which
induced me to believe that some of the so-called Polperro `sponges'
may be fish remains. Next we went to a coal-pit, but did not go down.
Then we travelled on an engine for several miles, in order to keep an
appointment to dine with Mr. R. C. Clapham, one of the secretaries of
the Newcastle Society. Yesterday I got a letter from Sir W. Armstrong,

Iasking me to spend a day and night                               My
                                                                  and
is too much engaged and too limited
                                       at  his house.                  stoim, we,hehnowIevmeer,t
                                       to  permit this,

him at the lecture last night, we arranged that should take luncheon

with him on Friday.                                                     "
     "This evening Dr. Brady gave a party in my honour. .

                              Pengelly to his Wife.
I I"Sfralz`an Street, fanuary 25, 1868.-- . . .
                                                                  am this moment

come in, having left Newcastle two hours and a half late.                  am all
Iright, and am going Out for the rest of the day. Yesterday
                                                                                 took

luncheon at Sir W. Armstrong's, and spent a very pleasant afternoon;

indeed, my visit from first to last has been most enjoyable. Everybody
as kind as they could be; nothing could surpass the kindness of my
host D. Richardson and his wife. Lady Armstrong showed me over
her splendid fernery. Sir William is so much interested in Kent's
ICavern that he declares he and Lady Armstrong will come down to
see it.       purpose         leaving  this about noon on Monday,      and expect      to
                                about                                  to see you      all
reach  mSooruet.hamIpwtoinsh           4.30.* I shall be very glad
once                          you could go with me everywhere. .       . ."

     Professor Huxley and Sir Charles Lyell were greatly inte
rested in the discovery to which the following letters refer.

                              Rev. W. S. Symonds to Pengelly.

                                       " Pendock Rectory, Tewkesbury, March 23, 1868.
    " I enclose a note from Leonard LyelLT from which you will
see, if he has not already written to you, that you have discovered
Pteraspz's in the Devonian proper; and a capital find it               is,
                                                                                 a

                                                                                  I
                              fish of both Siluria and Scotland.        as being an

undoubted Old Red                   question whether the large species  (which,  as
     " Of course,
I
                               it
                                    1' * is

                                        a

                                             I
detected its existence in your cabinet, may venture to claim right
to call P. Pengelliz') may not range into far higher beds than our lower
zones of the Old Red of Herefordshire, than the P. rostratus or Lewisiz'.

do not know where your Plymouth beds lie in the Devonians, but                         I

think you said near the base of the system.

                              Where he was to deliver a lecture.

                              Now Sir Leonard Lyell, M.P.
1 86             WILLIAM PENGELLY.                             [Cl-I. xu.

    " I have a letter from Sir C. Lyell, saying that he thinks the argu

ment of the nearly total change of species and genera of mollusca
between the Upper Silurians of Siluria and the Lowest Devonians a very
important point, and it is one to be carefully considered on attempting
"Ito correlate the Old Red with the Devonian.
        shall not easily forget the pleasant days and instructive time I
Ipassed in Devonshire with you, or the kind hospitality with which you
and Mrs. Pengelly welcomed me and my many friends.       look forward
Ito seeing you both here, and to showing you some of our Ptoraspis
bearing rocks before the summer is over.      promised you a photograph
of my Old Red figure, so enclose it with kind regards to yourself and
Mrs. Pengelly."

                 Leonard Lyell f0 Pengeléz.

                                "42, Regent's Park Road, N.W., March 24th.

    "When I took your cigar-box the other day to Jermyn Street'and

showed Mr. Huxley the specimens, he declared the larger slab to be

unmistakably Pteraspis, and remarked on its large size, and the number
of individuals jammed one on the tOp of another. Professor Huxley

also suggested the propriety of your giving these beds at Looe a thorough
working, to obtain perfect specimens of the Pteramis, and of your
sending to town a set of these fossil remains. As for the remaining
specimens, he considered them to be portions of fish, but too small to

Idetermine.  was leaving his room, and was looking about in case of

     "When
any specimen being overlooked, Mr. Huxley assured me, with almost
amusing gravity, that all the specimens were in the box, and that he
Ihad not withheld one. Then began to understand your scruples con
Icerning the morality of London palaeontologists!
                                                         have since delayed

returning to you the box only that my uncle might have an opportunity
of seeing the Pterayis.
     "With many thanks to you for the pleasant  recollections  I have of

the expeditions to Brixham and Kent's Hole."

                 f.Professor    Beetefizkes to Pengdév.

                                                "Dublin, April 4, 1868.

      " I've just heard from Huxley about your Pterospir, found at
Meadfoot, `between Torquay and Plymouth '----he says that is your
description of the place; but surely Meadfoot is that place in Torquay,
it not?                          Meadfoot?
  " It is  or is there another  goes against
           a grand find, and
Iis                                                      admit; still, it is
                                              my views,
Inot conclusive, any more than species of Silurian genera Of trilobites

make the Devonian rocks Silurian; so shall stand by my carboniferous

colours till they are battered down by stratigraphical as well as palaeon~

tological evidence.

     "I've a paper on South Devon in the press; but have been quite
knocked up this winter, with all sorts of botheration--had to go to
Gully of Malvern, etc., etc."

      ma",er >                                .flnw P.aruwfi`TJMLAva--M
1866--1868.]              DISCOVERY OF A WHALE.                           187

                                     fonat/zan Cour/z t0 Pengelly.
                                                                      " Polperro, June 15, 1868.

   "I can confidently assure you that the fossils to which you refer

Iwere discovered by myself, and have a lively remembrance of the cir
cumstances attending the discovery, which was made as I was climbing

Iupon some steep rocks at a place near what is called Chapel.

     "But after this engaged an individual of the Coast Guard to

extend the inquiry, which he did with much intelligence and persever

ance. His name is William Loughrun, now superannuated from the
Coast Guard, and at present engaged with Mr. ]. Gwyn Jeffreys in a
dredging excursion among the Shetland Islands. He preserves fish
exceedingly well, and supplies the British Museum with them. Our
I Ifriend Peach was always persuaded that the fossils referred to were fish

--which never believed; but once saw a small stone which bore
the marks of skeletons of real fishes--Plnzranedidw.  I was not able

to obtain and believe was finally lost."it,
                   I      II
     Another interesting discovery was that of the remains of af. it
whale.                 a

                          Dr. B. Gray to Pengelly.

                                        " British Museum, May I7, 1868.

   "Thanks for the notice of the second vertebra of the whale from

Babbacombe. Could         see the specimen, or a photograph of
                                                is
                                                       it

                                                              is

                                                                   I

                                                                                           it
                                                                                                    ?
I  am sorry to say that have no separate copy yet of the account of it.

The Proceedings of the Geological Society do not send the separate
copies until the part containing the paper out; as soon as get one
you shall have one. The discovery of this whale
                                                      most interesting,
as there was only single imperfect specimen of known before, found
on the coast of Sweden.   have had a facsimile of the vertebra of the
                          I

                                  it
original specimen sent to me, and yours are nearly identical."

   In the spring of 1868 Pengelly had the pleasure of visit
                                                      a
                                                                       a
from Mr. C. W. Peach, who had been spending short time in

Cornwall with the object of reviewing and making notes on his

geological collections, brought together many years before and

presented on leaving for Scotland to the Penzance and Truro

Museums. After leaving Torquay, Mr. Peach visited London

on his way home, and the following extract from a letter to

Pengelly relates the opinions formed of some of his specimens,

by Geologists in Town.

   "I brought with me from the Penzance Museum," he writes, "a
                                        th*ohueghwt asthtehmereLifnogrwelzxza.minIattiwonas
few specimens from my collection.     I
pleasant to find Salter in the museum;                 I

                                                                                                                         `
of Trilobites for Cambridge folk, for comparison.     showed him bits,

and at once he said liflgzllze; and on Etheridge seeing them he said

                          * Jermyn Street.

Mm~w~hHM - q~-`v.7\, \wva." -~-_..-.._,..-_._~  ,__.".-...`....~\ W\,_____,__~__-
188                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.                        [0". XII.

tbthoeeygoosnadamheeg;aodina. gndItoasshDtahalle,vyiIdashrooenpt,eh,tehoefinrestthdinanoygticsmeaydusmtfroorrmeest.aCbooruIntifsohtuhnerdoscekS;si,raItRpaormdeesgreilncatkd,
at the museum, and spoke to him, and told him about them. The old
chief laughed, and told me about the Land plants of the Cambrian

lately found, and that, since they were got, true Lingulze have been

found   in the   same   rocks, and  these said plants prove on examination
to be  Sponges.        hope these   sponges will be more genuine than Mr.
                    I
McCoy's. The veteran was in fine feather about this decision, and
was on the top ropes about the meeting and dinner of the Geographical
Society. He was looking well after the fatigue. They say he

acquitted himself well, indeed surprised everybody. . . ."

    At the British Association meeting, which wasithis year, 1868,

held at Norwich, Pengelly read his Fourth Annual Report on
the Kent's Cavern Exploration, in which are mentioned among
other interesting " Finds" in the overlying Black Mould, pieces
of Pottery, a spindle-whorl, a roughly shapen piece of New Red
Sandstone, a portion of a bone comb, marine shells, and "part
of a human upper jaw with eight teeth, of which four were still
in their sockets." He also read a Paper " On the condition of
some of the bones found in the Cavern "--in which he remarks
. . . "The third class consisted of bones broken with an oblique

fracture, and precisely resembled the larger remnants left
by Hyaenas, as the author had found by a series of experiments,
which he had made at the Zoological Gardens, London."

                     TRev. Canon [17. B. ristraln t0 Pengelly.

                     "Greatham Vicarage, Stockton-on~Tees, September 2, 1868.
   "I have never stated in any of my works that any caverns I had
Ivisited are tenanted alternately by man and wild beasts. But
mentioned in some fugitive paper or other on Tunis and its interior,
that several of the old Roman cisterns and crypts in the south of that
region are used by the Arabs for shelter and for cattle-folds during
their sojourn in the locality, and that when they have cleared off the
pasturage and gone, the hyaanas return and take up their quarters in
Ithese dens.                  that at Rabbath Ammon (now                       in
IGilead, east                 found plenty of the well-known                   of
                 of  may add                                    Ammon)
                     Jordan,                                    droppings
hyaenas in the vomitaria of the theatres, in places which are covered
with the manure of the beasts, which the Arabs stable there during
their sojourn every spring in the place. When we were there the
Arab cattle had gone, but only a few days before, and we found no
wild beasts."

    In the autumn of 1868 Professor Boyd Dawkins arranged to
visit Torquay for the purpose of identifying the bones found in

the Cavern.

       w / -§( p_ mp,;,,n`Wyr»_-m
1866--1868.]  DISCOVERIES IN KENT'S CAVERN.                                                     189

                  Professor Boyd Dawkins to Purge/(1'.

                                         " Romford, September 8, 1868.

"Can you help me to the knowledge of the man who owns the
lithograph stones of the plate of Maehairodus                               tIoowthritefouifndposbsyibleMacto
Enery, and published by E. Vivian in 1859?
borrow it for Palaeont. Society Monograph on Felis. Frank Buckland
writes me that he knows nothing about it. Of course you know.
IItem--concerning bones; when will it be convenient for me to begin
the task? wish    to finish  them as soon                               as I can; for    delay  with me
is a synonym for  laziness.                                                            to get   the task
                              If possible I                              should like

done before the year's end. . . . Hoping that you are digging away, etc."

                  Pengelly to Professor Boyd Dawkins.

                                         "Torquay, September 2!, 1868.
"I Ihave delayed answering your note until could meet with Mr.
oVfivMiaane,haairsoah'ues.alonIehacvaenjugsitveseiennfohrmimati(othnat              stones of the plate
                                                                        about the   not Machairodus),~
                                                                        is Vivian,
and he says `the plates were lithographed by Scharf, on stones found in
Ithe stores of Hullmandel & Co., London, and printed by them for Mr.
F. Buckland, and given to him, E. Vivian.'                              can tell you no more on

this point.
"I am busily engaged writing numbers on the Kent's Cavern bones,
Iso as to facilitate
                                                                            ought to have a good
start before you
                  your work when   you   aI rrmivaey.                   be  able to keep ahead of
                  begin, in order  that
Iyou. Will it suit you to fix your visit for the beginning of November?
   shall have a large number ready by that time."

     In the Monthly Report on Kent's Cavern for October, 1868,
is thus noted the discovery of a fine bone needle--

" Before closing this Report it may be interesting to state that Mr.
Boyd Dawkins, having arranged to visit Torquay shortly for the purpose
of identifying the Bones and Teeth found in the Cavern, the Secretary
has commenced a preliminary inspection in order to facilitate the heavy
task. While
of the box    thus engaged, on   the 24th ult., he                      found     among   the contents
              labelled ` 1847 '  what appeared                          at first   to be  a very small

Bone having one end covered with stalagmite. On being touched the
stalagmite fell off--a thing very common in the case of specimens which,
like this, have been washed and dried----and the Bone proved to be a
portion of a needle, having a well-drilled eye, which the stalagmite had

previously concealed. It is slightly taper; its section is sub-elliptical,
resembling that of a bodkin, rather than of a needle, and it has lost its
point. It is about 0'85 inch long, its greatest diameter at the larger end
is about      0'07 5 inch, and at the    smaller                        end 0'05     inch.    There are
numerous       fine longitudinal striae   on its                        surface, as           had been
                                                                                       if it
scraped into shape. The Secretary's Journal shows that it was found,
December 4, 1866, in the Black Band below the (Granular) Stalagmite'
I90                                     \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                         [CPL XII.

Floor, which was described in detail in the Third Report of the
Committee, read at Dundee in 1867.                             (See Report British Association
for 1867, p. 29)."

                    Professor Boyd Dowkins to Pengelly.

"Romfora', lVooember 2, 1868.--"I am preparing myself to wrestle
with the Kent's Hole collection. The best plan of attack                           iIs,
                                                                                       Ifancy, to
                                                                                          I
open the boxes according to their numbers. . In this way the work
                                                               I is
                                                                          .

                                                                           it .
will progress swiftly, and we can do some thousand per diem.                               know

all the species at sight, except Grizzly and Brown Bear, and these am
getting up. Thank heaven, F. Speleza
                                                                      done for aye and ayel . . .
Don't trouble about lists or catalogue; have all sketched out, and
                                        a

all the names of the beasts are down-+all that we shall find. . .                  ."

     Another extract from Pengelly's Journal during the same
month (November) records an interesting find.

" Thursday, Mme/noel- 26.--While engaged to-day in the pre
liminary investigation of the Cavern specimens at my house, found
                                                                                   I

in the `find 2206'                      well-formed Harpoon,' barbed on one side
     '                                                         `

            is a I                                                it

                         a

                            is is it a
only. When took out of the box was completely invested with
stalagmite, part of which fell off in my hand, and disclosed some of
the barbs. The tool not perfect, but another piece of bone, apparently
an implement also, not improbably portion of the harpoon. (See
                                                               a.

Evans' `Ancient Stone Implements,' p. 460, Fig. 404.) In the same
`find there         piece of bone with an artificial cut on it."

                    Pengelly 10 Sir Clzarles Lyell

"                                                                     " Torquay, November 11, 1868.
"
     I beg to call your attention to the                       following minutes.  ...
     P.S.--Mr. Boyd Dawkins, assisted                          by Mr. A. Sanford,
                                                                                    commenced
the examination of the Cavern fossils at my house yesterday. You will
be interested in hearing that they have detected remains of Beaver

amongst them."

     The Queen of Holland soon after this visited Torquay, and
was much interested in Pengelly's Geological discoveries.

                    Sir Charles Lyell lo Pengelly.

                                        " Harley Street, London, November 26, 1868.
     aI
                                      a
                                             a

                                                       7
                                                           3,
                                                      ;
" am glad to have copies of the five Memoirs on the Caverns and
Ichthyology of Devonshire, as well as the Meteorology of your county,
which attest your   scientific activity in                     the present year.
     " Miss Coutts  invited us last week                       to meet the Queen  of Holland         at

a luncheon party at her house and, having the honour to sit next her
Majesty, she told me good deal of her visit to Torquay, of which she
had lively recollection, especially on those points of the geology to
which you had served as guide. She said she had promised you the
1866--1868.] DISCOVERY OF REMAINS OF A BEAVER.                         191

skull of  an orang outang, which               had   been sent to her, and which she
was told  was a valuable specimen.
                                                  I  happened to say, ` He will perhaps
IgI ivmeeaitnttohimthetoTcoornqsuidaeyr                                should he do that?
      " was glad to hear                 Museum.' She said, `Why        be satisfied if Mr.
                                          it entirely for himself.'
                                         of the Beaver, but shall not
Boyd Dawkins finds nothing new except that animal ; although if such
should be the case, it would prove how well you have been observing
all
     t"heLeoosnteaorldogwicialll   details so  that scarcely  anything had escaped you.
                                  be pleased   to read your   notice of the Pteraspis. The
recognition of it was a good hit of Symonds."

     Pengelly had this year the pleasure of showing Kent's

Cavern, and explaining the work in hand, to Professor Tyndall,
john Bright, the great orator, and other friends.
192  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                   [CIL XIII.

                         CHAPTER XIII.

     RICH DISCOVERIES IN KENT'S IIQLE.

                                                                    1869 TO 1871.

AMONGST Pengelly's scientific friends at this period may be
especially mentioned Charles Kingsley and the late Mr. W.
Froude, naval engineer" (brother of Richard Hurrell Froude,
so well known in connexion with the Tractarian Movement, and
of James Anthony Froude the historian), who was now residing
at Cockington near Torquay, and was conducting, at the wish of
the Government, many interesting and important experiments
on the displacement of ships, on a small piece of water artifici
ally formed in his grounds. He and Pengelly had many
interests in common, as will be seen from a few extracts from
Froude's letters. Whether written in a playful vein, or on
abstruse mathematical subjects, his letters were ever welcome, as
his conversation, in like manner, always afi`orded pleasure.

                         W Froude to Pengelly.

     " Chelston Cross, 11.59 p.m. (that is to say after the I 1th hour).

I"Sir Thomas and Lady E. are coming to dine with us to-morrow,
rather 'on a `grand hop.'  think it is likely that you know him;
and if so, you will be the better able to judge whether it would be
pleasant or a bore to you to meet them. He seems to me a very
pleasing, intelligent, Open-minded man (perhaps my reason for thinking
him such is that he seems to like me `and one who likes to know
*

            is
                                         it,

                                it if
                                              if l),

                                                                                     it
                                                                                                    is it a

                                                                              if
                                                                                    !) if
about things,' and who does know about many things in sort of
general way, without, however, having any definite pursuit. Now,
your cold well enough, and you can spare the time, and isn't a

bore to you so to spare    would give us and him pleasure you
would join us at dinner to-morrow (you see by this time
at 7.30 p.m. `Don't hesitate to say no                   to-day

                                        you'd rather not,' but make

up (in that case) some agreeable excuse, such as that the bottom had

        He died in Simons Town, South Africa, whither he had gone partly for his
health and partly to carry on some scientific experiments, on May 6th, 1879.
1869--1871.]   CORRESPONDENCE WITH w. FROUDE.                                             193

fallen out of Kent's Cavern, or that the earth contained in it is in

aifploegseset,ruoer."that you are in opposition, or something more pleasant even

     This spring Pengelly had the agreeable satisfaction of
initiating and carrying to a successful issue Mr. Froude's
candidature for the Fellowship Of the Royal Society, and

amongst other letters received on the subject was one from
the late Professor.Tyndall.

    " I should gladly comply with any request Of yours . . . the signing
Ifgoes for nothing with the Council--what you want is a member of the
PChouil.ncTilratnos,spIeawkillfosrignyohuirs  friend.       Mr.   Froude  has  published  in the
                                              Certificate.
                                                              ..   ."

                        W. Froude lo Pengell '.

                                                       - " Chelston Cross, March 4, 1869.

    "This is the third time I have been baulked of my purpose of

calling on you, to thank you for the very great and effectual trouble
                        behalf                in reference to my
you have taken   on my                         not shirk having   F.R.S.-ship ambition.
An interruption  which  I could                                   each time come most

inopportunely.     So let me now              thank         you on paper at    least.    You are
kind enough to                                              know what a tax    it is on  the time
                 make light of it;            but I

Of a man who occupies his time fully, to write a lot of letters, and this
tax you have paid for me without stint. I' have received from the
President an invitation to an evening at Burlington House on the 6th
Iinst. and                                                                                to look
Iat them.
           on  the 24th April.                suppose       they have Candidates    up
               hope to go in April,            but on       the 6th cannot go."
            I

                        W. Froude to Pengelly.

                                              " Chelston Cross, Torquay, June 22, I869.
                        have seen the request I
     "You     perhaps                                             wrote to you the  Iotbheecr omdaey
              of Capt.  Noble. Like the Sibyl                     in Roman fable,
on behalf
. more exacting in proportion to my disappointments.
       " Captain Noble has been talking of the Cave to the ` Distinguished
Officers' who are conducting the artillery trials on Dartmoor near the

Prison. (It is a pity they can't have the Convicts to try the merits of
` Shrapnel 21. Segment Shell' upon. It would be more life-like.)

    "Well, the said officers are very anxious to see the interior Of the

Cave, and to talk with you on your results (General Dickson is the name
of the Boss) ; and as Saturday is the holiday, they would come over here
next Saturday, so as to avail themselves of any part Of the day you might

    at your disposal to show them what is to be seen there.
    Seriously feel that this sort of thing must be a really great
Ihave"                                                                                   exaction

on  a"nIy  man whose time is     so really filled           up    as yours.
           explained this ; and  you must not               on    any account
                                                                               hesitate   to say
` no,' unless you can bring it within the ordinary limits of self-sacrifice,
which I know you make full wide.

                                                                                    0
               WWW. _.

194                                  \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                  [CIL XIII.

"Iweek    should have      come      to see you, but         I have been laid up                         this
      "with the gout.                now afloat again,
                            I am                             but not in trim.
       I will send over
                           to-morrow noon to see             if there is an answer."

                                     I/V. Frouo'e to Pengelly.

                                            " Chelston Cross, Torquay, August 22, 1869.

     " I return your book, with many thanks; I have read with much
                                                         my attention. The more so,
ainsterIesht adtheonpapvearrsioutso  which you   called  the views which the paper
                                      occasions  heard

states comprehensively and compactly, crudely and loosely stated in
conversation, and had been attracted by this. The authority on which

they come indeed is sufficiently good to oblige an outsider to adopt
them so far as he need decidedly adopt any on the points in question,

and besides that, so far as my weak geological knowledge enables me
Ito follow them, they seem to

except one point--my doubts
                                     abbeouctonwchluicshiveIlystawteorwkeitdh  out--if indeed
                                                                               much hesitation.
                                                   involved in the             circumstance of
The    difficulty is this  : From    principles    to understand
the    Earth's rotation,             it diflicult                              how an oceanic
                            I feel

current can combine a westerly element as it flows northward above the
Equator. The Gulf Stream in its westerly course before it reaches the
Equator, is acting in due accord with the principles in question, and no
less so as it again trends eastward across the North Atlantic. That it

might be driven westward to some degree, by the combination of its
northerly impulse and the pressure of an intercepting continent, is of

course possible; but that impulse must become spent by degrees,
namely, as soon as the excess of easterly velocity due to its Equatorial
rotation, when transferred to the lesser velocity of rotation belonging to

Ithe higher latitudes, had become equal to its original velocity as a

current. This at least is a difficulty, the solution of which do not see,
though the difliculty seems real and obvious--but then it is one which the

Iwriter of the paper is certainly not likely to have overlooked--so
                                                         subject of a
shall  bottle  up the doubt to       serve as the        are you will  conversation when
next           you, and when         the chances                       be able at once to
       I meet

set me right."

                    Rev. Canon Kingsley to Pengelly.

      "                                          "Eversley, Druchfield, March 15, I869.

I Itracts
         have been reading--I need not say with                 wtohasttupdlye.asurIe--shcaelrltaninot

         of yours which              had not ere now time

intrude compliments on you, but come to a question. Among the
I` Raised Beaches in Barnstaple Bay,' you take no notice of N ortham
Pebble Ridge.       have long considered this as a raised beach, because--
" 1. It is high above high-water mark.
"2. I could never find any sign of accretion to
                                                                               the sea-bottom
       3.

                                                                it
                                                                                         it,

                                                                                                     is
outside  being all  smooth fine sand.                    as  seems to me,                                forming,
      "   Because   a similar pebble ridge,

or has been formed, at Buckish Gore, running out far to sea northward,
to the westward of the ridge (four miles to the west of and intercepting
any stones which may fall from the cliffs at least between Bucks and
Hartland Point).
1869-1871.] KINGSLEY ON BARNSTAPLE PEBBLE RIDGE.                                            195

"4. Because beneath the pebble ridge at low tides there are
exposed, beneath the sand, beds of blue clay and peat, seemingly
homologous with the other sunken forests of W. England and W.
Wales. Now this bears on your Presidential Address, page 26, where

you say that `In no instance are the subaerial portions of the forests
overlain by marine deposits beyond the reach of the waves at the
Iexisting level.' Of course all depends on what you think the pebble
ridge to be.       have looked at it long, and have come to the same
conclusion as (I think) Phillips came to. But that it is of the same
era as the raised bedded beach of the North side--Braunton and
Lamerton (which I used to puzzle over as a boy, and which you so
well vindicated   against Spence Bate)---I do not        say. It   seems   to me
                 same era as certain raised shell                          could
rather of the                                            beaches  which I
show you about Hunstanton, in the North Coast of Norfolk, which

certainly seem to me later than the submerged Post-pleiocene forests
of Brauncaster, etc.

"Pardon my daring to differ from you in opinion."

                   Pengelly 10 #16 Rev. Canon King-slay.

                                                       " Lamorna, Torquay, March 20, 1869.

   "I am very sorry that I have not been 'able to answer your kind
Iand interesting letter before. Herewith send you a small parcel

of my papers, one of which is on `The Submerged Forest and the
Pebble Ridge of Barnstaple Bay.' There appears to be good evidence

that the Ridge marches slowly landward (the pebbles having an
occasional game at leap-frog), and it is certain that, during heavy gales,
vast bodies of water are thrown over it at spring-tide high-water. With
these facts in view, it does not appear to me requisite to suppose that
when the ridge was formed, the level of the land was lower than it is
at present. Indeed, with such an unresisting plain landwards of
doubt very much whether, the land were lower, the Ridge would longI
retain its present position, or stop short of the cliff which bounds     iIt,
the plain. You will find that whilst believe the Raised Beaches of
                                 if
                                            I

Braunton, Hope's Nose, etc., are contemporary with one another, and
older than the Submerged Forests of Northam, Torbay, etc., incline
to the opinion that there have been changes of level since that which

carri"edIf  down the forests.    me  know  what  papers  of mine you  have                  by
            you will kindly let
you, will, with your permission, send you copies of all you have not,
I
as far as can do so."II
         I
                           Rev. Canal: Kingslg/ to Pengelly.
                          I                                " Eversley Rectory, Winchfield.

"     have been reading your interesting paper           on Beekites of 1858.
"  One thing always struck me about them, and            the beds in which they

are found, viz. the trace of active volcanic agency.     I  always suspect

volcanic springs where find trace of water containing silex in solution.
suspect flows of hot water, holding silex in solution, may have caused

our chalk fiints.
196                       WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                                                        [Ci-I. XIII.

     "But there are (to me) distinct proofs of the conglomerates of
Torquay having been formed, some of them under active volcanic
agency. Froude the historian (who
to me, when bathing off the Beekite  is no       geologist) first pointed                                                                 "  it out
                                     beds        at the Thunderhole.                                                                         See,"

he said, "that every fragment of these older rocks is angular. They
have not been rolled on a sea beach. Have they not been blasted out
of a volcano?" At once
                                there occurred to me                    Ethifeelg, rewahtichsimIilkanriotyw
between them and the dust       and gravel beds of the
well ; and where, round each crater of explosion, you have vast (recent)
layers of dust and little angular bits of the Devonian strata--rasped by
             the lips of
stea"mDooff  think over   the   crater.          you know all about
                          this   action--unless
S.                                                                                                                                 and more,
                   a

                          I

                                         it

                                                                                                it,
                                                                                                                                   '
already. And tell me where can find information about the `traps
of Devon and their age."

     The British Association met at Exeter in the autumn of 1869.
Though not large meeting, was an interesting one. Being
little more than an hour's journey from Exeter, many of the
men of science gathered there took the opportunity of visiting

Torquay and its neighbourhood.

                          TPengelbl to Sir Walz`t'r rel/L'Zyan.

                                                 " Lamorna, Torquay, July 19, 1866.

     "When, upwards of two years ago, had the pleasure of being
introduced to you in Kent's Hole, by my colleague Mr. Vivian of this
town, we had some conversation on the alleged occurrence, in the
cavern, of Mac/zairodu: latidens, formerly known as Ursus mltridens.
I

                                P
                                 a

                                it, if

                                            I
am preparing paper on the subject for the British Association, and
                                you will be so good as to favour me with
shall be greatly obliged

replies to the following queries with permission to use them publicly on

your authority.                                                                                                                                 of
     " 1. Were you present when Mr. MacEnery found the canines
Mac""h" 4a32i...roIDIdffuidsnsoo,ytohiuanvoeyboytuaoriuncoflrloeomcrtiothnhi,memd,oonineyoyouor ukmrnoocrowelleowcfhtietohrnee
                                                                                                                                canines?  P
                                                                                                                                at present   ?
                                                                                                                                they are "

                          1111's. Penger lo lzer Sister.

     "Exeter, August 20.-- . . . The soirée last night was delightful,
                                     knew. William introduced me to
but so crowded.           saw many
     a

                 I

                             1.

                               aI
                                                                     a
Babbage, Professor Couch Adams, and several others.                                                                                had very
                                                                                                                                I            a

nice talk with Sir Charles Wheatstone, also Professor Huxley, which                                                                             is

always treat, Busk, Balfour, etc., and chat with Miss Becker, who
was walking about with our friend Mr. Edgeworth. William read his
Report on Kent's Cavern to full house, Boyd Dawkins following.

Professor Phillips's lecture was very good."

     It was for the Red Lion Dinner at Exeter that parody of
                                                                                                                                a
1859--1871.] THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EXETER.                                            197

Gray's Elegy was written. The last two verses of which are thus
mentioned by Dr. Woodward in his Presidential Address, at the

Anniversary Meeting Of the Geological Society, 1895. At the
conclusion of his obituary notice of Pengelly, he says: "But

few men write their own epitaphs ; here, however, is the epitaph
written by William Pengelly for himself, at the British Associa
tion, Exeter, I869.

                                               EPITAPH.

              Here rests his head on balls of album grweum,

                  A youth who loved Cave-earth and stalagmite ;
           If fossil bones they held, he'd keenly seek 'em ;

                     Exhume and name them with supreme delight.

His hammer, chisels, compass lie beside him ;
      His friends have o'er him piled this heap of stones.

Alas! alas! poor fellow! woe betide him
             in the other world, there are no bones.
it
That his parody amused some of his friends                                   shown by
       I I If,                                                        is

                     is                                                    I
                             athe following letter from Sir Benjamin Ward Richardson, " Pray
                            it
send me another copy or two of your wonderful elegy.                                       have
                                          a
                                                          .learnt already, and shall recite at dinner to-night."

                                         it.Mrs. Pengelly to her Sisz`er.

                                                      is" Torquay, September 5.--- . . To-day we hadvery pleasant call
                                                                   a  a
                                                                                       is
from the Macmillans, who are staying here now. William knew rather
intimately the brother who died many years since, and whom we liked
exceedingly. He spent one or two winters here, and was the founder
Of their large business. Alfred R. Wallace, the traveller,
                                                                                           staying

with them, and was very pleased to be introduced to him and have a
nice talk when went to visit them. William has taken them all to the
Cavern. Yesterday, we had charming visit from the President of the
British Association, Mr. Stokes he was accompanied by Dr. Robinson
of Belfast and his wife. The latter                                   sister of Maria Edgeworth.

We much enjoyed showing them the fossils, etc., and they were so pleased
and interested with all they saw. Dr. Robinson, who Astronomer
                                                                      is
                                                                         is
Royal for Ireland,  delightful old man. William reading Dean

Milman's work on St. Paul's Cathedral now with much pleasure;

know"inSgeptehmimberwe2ll6.m---akTehse  more interesting.
                                        old Bishop of Exeter, Dr. Phillpotts, was
buried yesterday in the beautiful little churchyard at St. Mary Church.
Mr. Barnes the vicar (and Examining Chaplain to the Bishop) sent                                        '
note to William saying the family would be gratified by his attendance,
                                                                                           a
                                                                                                     a
so of course he went. There were a great many people there, but the
funeral was very simply conducted. On Tuesday we spent very

                                        * Now Sir G. G. Stokes.
198                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                           [CI-L XIII.

pleasant evening at Miss Coutts', to meet Sir Harry Verney and his
charming daughter. Sir Harry is a very old friend of William's, and we
saw much of Miss Verney when she was here a few years since, so it
was very pleasant to meet them again. She tells me Miss Zitter, her

companion when here before, and who left her to become Secretary to
                                             is now teaching the little Princess of
the Crown Princess of Prussia,               was a friend of Mrs. Tennyson.* The

Nassau. If you remember, she
Inext day Sir Harry and Miss Verney came for us, and we drove with

them to the Cavern, where left them for the Macmillans. They
wanted William to dine with them on Thursday, to have more of Mr.
Wallace's company; but he was unable to do so. He is going to Sir
Wm. Tite's to dinner this evening, the architect, who is wintering here,
and of whom we see a great deal."

                              Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Sisler.
     " Torquay, .Nooemoer 16, 1869.-- . . . Dined at Lady Brownlow's last
night, to meet the Countess of Mount-Edgcumbe and Lady Ernestine,
and had a very pleasant evening. Sir Edward and Lady Malet were
there; he was formerly our representative at Frankfort, and they are
great friends of the Queen of Holland."

                        Sir Charles Lyell to Pengelly.

     "I I"Drumkilbo, Meigle, September 18, 1869.
           have just returned from a tour in Sutherlandshire, where
have been studying with my nephew the relations of the Laurentian,
Cambrian, and Lower Silurian rocks, the geology of which Murchison
has so well made out. The scenery of that region is very peculiar,

Iand more grand and picturesque than any part of the British islands

   have before seen. We have had six weeks of uninterrupted fine

"Iweather, and got      hoImceanjunostt  before the rain.  to you.  Mr. Busk has my
             am afraid                    be of any use
copy of Sefimerling; but it                  believe, just what you describe. There
                        I
                              iIs,
     paper few years old by Mr. Malaise, on some discoveries of the
I isLiége Caverns, which could look out                    were in town; and M.
   iIf a                                     iIf

             IaDupont, to whom the Belgian Government entrusted the exploration
of their Caverns and the placing the produce of them in public
                                                                    I
                                                                                a
museum, has sent me several reports, which, no doubt, could hunt
up were in London, you thought they would be useful to you.
                        if

expect to be in town early next month.
  "The British Association Meeting seems to have been very
                 am glad you got a fresh grant, the vouchers for which
successful.

have been sent me."

                                Professor Phillips lo Pengelly.
                                                                            " November 19, 1869.

    ". . . thank you heartily for the gift of the second part of Kent's

Cavern Literature--very conscientiously and judiciously done. The

                                                    Now Lady. _
     I

                                          *
1869--1871.] PROF. PHILLIPS ON CAVE DISCOVERIES.                        199

good old    Prétre* was really more worthy of a place     atmo onhgim.geoIloghiacvael
inquirers,
            than that which has usually been accorded
                             among the many valued gifts of like nature
                             to you_; and in that case shall bind the
IfhoorpewhtiochfinIdthe
            am   first part
                 indebted
researches concerning Kent's Hole; for a high place (within reach)

Iin my Geological Library. You have written much and well, and
trust many years of health and good work are before you in the county

which you have made famous."

     Shortly after leaving Torquay, Mr. Alexander Macmillan
wrote to Pengelly, requesting him to furnish an article on
Kent's Cavern, for the Magazine published by his firm. He
says in his letter--

"I cannot forget your kindness to us at Torquay, and the interest
                                                      town, of          hills and
you added   to  our pleasant visit to your  pleasant  you will  many     and see
one cave.       hope when you come to       London              come
            I

me here, and also at my house at Tooting, where, though there are
neither hills nor caves, there is pretty enough country, and there will

certainly be to you a kindly welcome."

Among the people of celebrity who visited the Cavern under

Pengelly's guidance this year may be mentioned the Rev.

Frederick Denison Maurice, Lord Talbot de Malahide, Sir

I. K. Shuttleworth, Sir Harry Verney, and General Lefroy.
    Sir James Kay Shuttleworth had become Chairman of a
Committee for exploring the Settle Caves in Yorkshire, and

was thus especially interested in the work.                             '

                         W. Froude to Pengelfy.

                             " Chelston Cross, Torquay, September 23, 1869.

I" Many thanks for conveying to me Miss Burdett Coutts' message,
which     shall act on.                                   ` Colourless  Exegesis '
        was very glad    to observe  you  dispense  your
    "I
to the Torquay (and other) public on the subject of Mr.
                                                                             '5

threatened deluge. (As to            , whoever he may be . . . his name
Ihas figured in so many foolish sham science prognostications, that he
ought to have his exegesis, by no means colourless.)            was amused

to observe how, while you allow--or rather oblige, your readers to feel
that they are swallowing plain common sense, which will approve itself
as such to any reader of ordinary intelligence, you oblige them at the
same time to swallow a lot of hard words which will rather puzzle them,

such as Anomalistic year, etc., etc., as a penalty for having gobbled

down        '5 nonsense, just because it was so flavoured as to give them

the notion they were `being scientific' in accepting it. As a regular

                             * MacEnery.
ZOO                WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [CH. XIII.

doctor will often flavour his wholesome physic with a little extra
nastiness, when he finds his patient has been taking the advice of a

quack.

    "It is a curious psychological fact that people will listen in the
name of science to any quack who talks sham science, but are disposed
to think that such men as the Astronomer Royal and his establishment,

"Iare ignorant or inattentive to their business.

           remember an old stage-coachman of my acquaintance, who
once listened with an uneasy patience to a narrative of some great

cruelty which some one had been practising on a dog. My friend
was fond of dogs, and when the story came to an end his indignation
                              the perpetrator of the          he said, `Well!
overflowed.    Referring to   fellow, there ain't much  act,  in keeping of a
              don't get that                            use
if the Devil
IDevil (or having of a Devil--I forget which was the word used)----not

as sees.'
' "So       if we
informed           can't trust to  the Greenwich establishment     to keep us
            as to  all the known                                 astronomical
                                   or knowable results of usual

combination, we had better leave off maintaining it.

     "This sort of folly would hardly thrive so, if Education were what

it ought to be.

     "But I suppose things will mend by degrees--and indeed are
                   5 ought to be abolished: they help to discredit
mending. Only
               in public opinion,
real science  they hit the mark     whether the chance        shots  come right
                                   by a fluke, the Public      say,  Why didn't
or fail. If
any one tell us this? if they miss
                                     half the world won't see the
            ; is
failure--the other half set the humbug down as a scientific failure."it

                                                           is it,

                                                              aI
                                                                          ! is I
     The mammalian remains found in Kent's Cavern brought
Pengelly, from this time forward, into correspondence with Pro
fessor Owen,* who was always most willing to assist him with
regard to Books, Plates, etc.

                   Professor Owen 2`0 Pengelbz.
                                              " British Museum, November 23, 1869.
     "I applied    the first leisure at my command on my return to

London to the reply to your inquiry relating to Srfimerlz'ng, which
reached me in Wales. Our library possesses the 4to text (Liege,
1833), etc., and 4to text, 1846. Our Librarian knows not of any
other publication, since 1846, by Schmerling, and             conclude that

the volumes of that date were the last under his name. But

have further to remark, that the vols. of 1846 are not merely reprints,
but the unsold parts of the impression of both text and plates of the
edition of 1833 and 1834. With new title pages! `Premier Volume'
of 1833       "l`ome Premier' of 1846. `Second Volume'.of 1834
`Tome Second' of 1846. Gallam'z'n vends the 1833--4 impression,
Oudart vends the vampt-up edition of 1846. Voila toute la différence
As far as collation has gone, there
                                     not an error corrected, or any

alteration    appears to be the same impression with new title.

                   * Afterwards Sir Richard Owen.
1869--1871.] W. FROUDE ON THE MOON'S INFLUENCE.                               2OI

     " Now let me thank you for the ` brochures' you were kind enough
to send me. MacEnery's is very suggestive. What a pest the fixed
idea of the Mosaic Deluge becomes, when a good observer puts that
blinker over his eyes!"

     How close the friendship between Pengelly and Mr. W.
Froude had become is clearly shown by the following letter :--

                                             -W. Froude to Pengelly.

"       MY  D"EAORr    PENGELLY,                   " Chelston Cross, Torquay, January 10, 1870.
                       does that             sound, as a boatman of mine used to phrase
`too                                         is iIs,
                                                              II

                                                                                  I it,
            familiar'? But the fact          don't go in much for Mistering.
. . . It should by rights be the elder of the two who initiates that

familiarity, and waited for you as the senior to begin; but when
5tg
                                                       than mine, began with grief
    I
                      it
               I
                   I
                                          a
found how much stronger your hand

feel that was who was really the older, and take the first free

   0t". wanted to say few words about the moon, and the evaporation
and the warmth or cold which she causes on the earth, in reference to

the few words we had on that subject the other night.

    "Is not Tyndall's proposition, that given thickness of water in

tercepts the same amount of obscure rays, whether coherent as water,
or as in the shape of vapour? So far, therefore, as that principle goes
                                                     a
                                                                   it

                                                                                it
                                                                                           it,

                                                                                                              a
        state correctly), the cloud would intercept as much Obscure heat
(Iif

      it
               it
after"      was turned into transparent       vapour   as before, while    was cloud.
        It   may be, however, that the       globular  particles of water  of which

cloud consists reflect obscure rays as they reflect luminous rays, and the
effect of cloud in preventing the formation of dew would be not by
radiating back the obscure heat which the earth has radiated to but

by reflecting back.it

     "This couldn't interfere with your proposition or paradox, that the
                                                                      would only shift the
moon's warmth may make us colder sometimes;

basis of it."

     In March, 1870, the Queen Of Holland, Sophia Of Wiirtem
burg, called by some writers "La Reine Rouge," from her

liberal tendencies, again visited Torquay, and was present at
one of Pengelly's lectures.

                       .Vrs. Pengelly to her Sister.

T" orguay, Mare]:      8,                    187o.--As you express wish to hear what we
                            a                I
                                                 I
                                                        I iIf a
have seen of the Queen of Holland, intend,                            have time, to give
                                                       think told you William
you full, true, and particular account.
      a

was asked to meet her at afternoon tea at Miss Coutts' the day after

her arrival. She talked good deal to him, and expressed wish to            a
call on Thursday, which she did, with her suite. When was introduced
                                                                      I

to her she shook hands cordially, desired me to be seated, and said how
202                   \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                               [CrL XIII.

pleased she was to make my acquaintance; she took much notice of
little Hettie (Lydia, being at school, missed seeing her), asking her
questions and petting her. We were greatly pleased with her visit, and
also with the ladies and gentlemen of the suite, particularly with the
Baroness de Dedan* and the Baron de Simonshaven. The Queen
had visited the cavern when here for a few days last November, and
had invited William to spend the evening with her at the hotel. She
speaks English very well, and William says seemed thoroughly up in
English matters, discussing who would be appointed Archbishop. Also
she talked well on the origin of man, of Huxley's and Darwin's views,
etc., and has given William the skull of an orang outang which she had,

and thought he would value.
     "On Monday she expressed a wish to attend William's lecture at
the Museum--one of a geological course he is delivering there. Miss

Coutts, who always attends them, came and met her at the door, sitting
next her; the Vice-President also met her, and presented a bouquet.
The first row of chairs was reserved for the party, the Queen sitting in
the middle; she looked very much interested in it all, and when the
lecture was over crossed over to tell William how pleased she had been,
but said it was too short. Miss Coutts told me afterwards how much

interested the Queen  tohadaskbeiefn.the(IQt uiseevnerywoaumldusinbge  what a number of
people have called                                                     at William's next

lecture.) The Baroness de Dedan and all the suite, too, were most
friendly, both then and in the evening, when we met at Miss Coutts',
where a brilliant party was assembled. The dresses and jewels were

magnificent, but the crowd was so great we could scarcely move. She
talked a good deal to William about a hasty journey he had arranged

Ifor her into Cornwall, and which she found very satisfactory. She also

conversed with me, and had much interesting talk with the Baron and
others of the suite on their journey into Cornwall, etc. The Queen is
delighted with Torquay and her reception here, and says she shall come
again; and every one is charmed with her. William went with some
other of her friends to the station to see her off. She seemed much

pleased to see him, and when stepping into the carriage, said, `Don't
forget me, Mr. Pengelly.' . . ."

     The following two letters from the Rev. Charles Kingsley
refer to the Presidency of the Devonshire Association, which he

had been asked to accept, and which, after some difficulties were
settled as to the time when it was to be held, he filled most ably.

     Rev. Canon Kingsley to Pengelly.

                      "Eversley Rectory, \Ninchfield, March 13, 1370.

     "Between business, and the enormous cold I, my daughter,
                                   on these dark and dreary
                                  now. Pray forgive me.
                                  should like the post above
Iahshnaodvreemsw, yriIttsheonanvetcoaouvMgehrrl.tooHkinaesrdtpalnetyylyoutroonlesattylaenrthdaitnitlglI

     * Now wife of Mr. Lecky, M.P. for Dublin University.
1869--1871.]  SIR JOHN EVANS ON CAVE DEPOSITS.                                             203

Iall temporary honours                could wish for. But that my canonry keeps
Ime at Chester till the end of July; and it will then be impossible for
me to accept, if the meeting is as            early as it is this year.             shall be
                                              not before; and of course
at liberty the first of August, but                                                 I can't

expect the Association                to wait my time.         heart  on  one  score.      The
                                      it will be with a heavy
    "Alas ! if I accept
Fanes of Clovelly were to have taken me in, if the presidency were
offered me,- and now they are both dead, man and wife, in the prime
Iof th"eIirsyheoaurlds. like much to see
                                                       have many things        to say about
the geology of the West Indies.                        come to town, let       me know."
                                      yoIuf. you

                   Rev. Canon Kingsley to Pengell 1.

                                      " Eversley Rectory, Winchfield, April 15, 1870. '

I"Many thanks. I accept joyfully the honour which is offered
me, and the date thereof.             only feel a dread at so great a pleasure,
so far off, and at what may happen meanwhile. For ` Life is uncertain,'

say fools. ` Life is certain,' say I, because God is educating us thereby.
But this process of education is so far above our sight that it looks
often uncertain, and utterly lawless. Wherefore fools (with M. Comte)
conceive that there is no living God, because they cannot condense
IHis "formamulajsusitnstoentdhienigr
                                      small smelling-bottles.  has    learnt   his  trade  well
                                      off my eldest son, who
at Cirencester, and in the River Plate, to try his own manhood in

Colorado, US. You will understand, therefore, that it is somewhat
important to me just now, whether the world be ruled by a just and
wise God, or by 0.

"P.S.--It is also an important question to me, with regard to my

own boy's future,  whether             what   is said  to have happened              to-morrow
(Good Friday) be   true or            false.           am old-fashioned,            and super
                                               But I
stitious, and unworthy of the year 1870."

     Pengelly's time was now almost wholly devoted to the ex
ploration of Kent's Hole, but he visited London in July.

                               fo/m Evans to Pengelly.

                                                 " Nash Mills, Hemel Hempstead, May 6, 1870.
     "Prepare for a series of questions! How are you, what are you
doing, and when are you coming to London, and (what is of much
more vital importance) when are you coming here? You have been
due any time the last four years, but now your visit has become

I Iimperative, for have a heap of things here that ought to return to
Iyour safe keeping, and have a heap of questions to ask you about

them. So please tell me that you are coming here some time this

I I Imonth, as when once June sets in don't know where shall be.
I Iam just at work upon the Cave part of my book, and have been study

ing your reports; one of the results is that find ought to engrave

                               * Now Sir John Evans, F.R.S., etc.
204                        \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                     [CIL XIII.

Iseveral more of the stone things, and notably      No. 4155, and    posIsiabllsyo
                                                    of some others.
No. 3918, and not improbably you may know
find that ought to figure the bone harpoons, needle, pin, etc. What
do you say to this? In any case will you try if you can pay me a visit
Ifsome time this month, and bring anything out of the common from
the cave with you?         Mrs. Pengelly   can  accompany  you    so much   the
better. Have you      a  spare copy of    y0ur  third and  fifth  reports?
                                                                              I
iQShnoauvamesteeuarancrhlcalhrytf,ohorefqwruTeheseotsr.mttiioanrAsIy.ndhMavIawenhh.,aevreweYhobwouemeernewIialNlwohasbay.evet1hp1isln7e,oaEtsa2es8fdot6eu,rnwdaii,ntnhdFarsn2aod1nm8c3epea,frootplfuyanrttdhloy?ef
implements from Poitou, which approximate in character with those
from Kent's Cavern."

                           Pengelly ta [01m Evans.

                                          "Lamorna, Torquay, May 7, 1870.

 "Prepare for a series of   answers to your         questions of 4th inst.
have a bad cold, and am     daily oscillating       between this and the
II
cavern.  have no prospect (worse luck) of visiting London or

Hemel Hempstead. Nos. 4155 and 3918, and indeed all the imple
ments mentioned in the fifth report, as well as a fine one found since,
shall be sent you. Since the minute of the committee of the meeting held
at Norwich, August 20, 1868, gives you permission to figure any of the
flint implements, or ot/zer arr/zaologiml .vjbrw'mens, in your forthcoming
work, all the bone tools shall be sent you, also copies of the third and

fifth reports on Kent's Hole are sent you by this post. No. I 17 was found

May 20, 186 5, in the Great Chamber, fourteen feet within the south or
arched entrance, in the second foot-level of cave-earth. No. 286 was

found June 16, 1865, in the Great Chamber, twenty-two feet within
the south entrance in the fourth foot-level of cave-earth; but the

ground had been previously broken there, so that the position cannot

I Ifyfmbooeriunerd,ewlsioteehudnalddtoInths.eflenodofIlrinamttmshe, eegththoceei.nr,egbtuiecntsottilsTourvrurororeioudtnudflronenin.dtthtbeIotyo1lih7siftsrhoemsoisnwesnntt.htieakliItcthaocvaaemnnrnndyo, tpk,Ieinatc.choeeurleodf

cut him down at a stroke."

                           fo/m Evans to Pengelly.

                            "Nash Mills, Hemel Hempstead, May 12, 1870.

"Many thanks for your answers, though I wish one of them had
been to the effect that you were coming here. You must arrange
for doing so next time you come to London. Would you kindly send
the specimens, after you return from Truro, to Messrs. Dickinson and
Co., 65, Old Bailey.    I  am going into            at the end of the month,
and should like to          the engraver  Scotland
                      get                 at work   during my absence. I

hope you may succeed in converting Mr. ------, but it is rather like
trying to wash a blackamoor white. He would not accept a flint as
artificial if he saw you make it. Try."
    1869--1871.] DEVONSHIRE FOSSILS IN THE YORK MUSEUM. 205

                                   Pengelly to his IV

        I" I, Stratton Street, London, fuly 16.--- . . . On Thursday left

    cards on Mr. Prestwich and Sir Wm. T ite, but did not see either Of them,

    Ithe former being from home and the latter ill. In the afternoon
    Iwalked along a large part of the Thames Embankment, and after dining
    went to    the House of Commons,                  where saw      a good many of the
    Members                                           Shuttleworth,   Sir John Lubbock,
                I knew--to wit, Sir K.
    J. W. Pease, etc. The debate was very interesting, as it turned on the
    question,   should             the School Boards  in London be elected by ballot
    or not.
               I heard             Lord J. Manners,   Mr. B. Hope, Sir J. Packington,
    IMr. Gathorne Hardy, W. E. Forster, Gladstone, and others. Yesterday
    met Scott and his son by appointment. We proceeded to see the South

    Kensington Museum, and afterwards went to Jermyn St. Museum. Then

    to a ladies' meeting (where a few gentlemen were admitted), with Miss
    Coutts, for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Then Miss Coutts
    wished me to go with her, or rather to meet her at the House of
    ICommons, as she wished to see Mr. W. E. Forster. Thither we went,
    and after a good deal of trouble                  succeeded in bringing the two
    magnates together. We visited the House of Lords, and were there
    when, in reply to Lord Malmesbury, Lord Granville stated that he

    had no reason to doubt, though no Official information had been
    received on that France had declared war against Prussia. Whilst
I
      I

                        it,
    there saw Lord Talbot de Malahide, with whom had nice talk.
                                                                     I

                                                                                    a

                                                                                                 is
    forgot to say that on Thursday called at the Indian Office to see
    the Duke of Argyll by appointment.".I
                                      I
        The following letter from the late Mr. Kenrick of York,`
    in answer to inquiries respecting some valuable fossils from Kent's
    Cavern in the York Museum.

      " Yorh, Oetober 17, 1870.-- . .                 have received the papers which
    sent you from `the archives of the York P. S.'T have no doubt that
J. I                                                   I

    the person to whom McEnery's letter was addressed was the President,
    the Rev. W. V. Harcourt, but `Mr. Strickland' was not Hugh. The

    Record stands thus in the Report of 1826: "July 4th. Account of

    Fossil bones discovered in Kent's Hole Cavern, Torquay, by the Rev.
       McEnery, with notices by Baron Cuvier and Dr. Buckland (com
    municated by G. Strickland, Esq., M.W.S. and Y.P.S.)." He was
    unele to Hugh Strickland the geologist. Several of the family were
    devoted to different branches of Natural History one of them, Arthur,
                                                       ;
                                                                a

                                                                     I
    who resided many years near Bridlington Quay, had noble collection
    of birds, especially of sea-birds, which has lately been acquired by the
    Y.P.S.     see no Strickland's name occurs in McEnery's mention of
    visitors to Kent's Hole (`Cavern Researches,' p. 37), nor do knowI
    how Mr. G[e0rge] S[trickland] came to be the medium of communication
    of the bones to our Museum. They are thus mentioned in the list of'I' *
    Donations: `Twenty-eight specimens and casts of teeth and bones of

                                   Author of the " History of the Phoenicians."
                                   Philosophical Society probably.
206                        WILLIAM PENGELLY.             [CI-I. XIII.

Bear, Hyaena, Tiger, Horse, Rhinoceros, Ox, Deer, Elk, etc., from
Kent's Hole Cavern, Torquay.' In the Report drawn up by Mr.
Harcourt they are thus spoken of: ` The remains of antediluvian quad
rupeds from Torbay were accompanied by an interesting communication
from the donor, who, having placed a similar collection in the hands
of M. Cuvier, had obtained his opinion upon them. That eminent
naturalist found one of the specimens, a cast of which is in the Society's
Museum, to be the canine tooth of that species of bear, which he has
named Ursus Cultridens, an animal of which no remains had been
previously known, except a specimen of an entire skull found in Val
d'Arno, and deposited in the Museum at Florence. The similarity of
fracture which prevails in the bones found in this cave is noticed by
Mr. McEnery, and the marks of teeth upon them are particularly
remarked by M. Cuvier, who states that these may be more distinctly
traced in the English specimens than in any others which he has
seen. . . ."

     Canon Kingsley followed up his acceptance of the Presidency
of the Devonshire Association by consulting Pengelly as to his
address.

               Rev. Canon Kingsley to Pengelly.

                                                 " Chester, July 22, 1871.

"Can you tell me anything of the probable science papers at the
Bideford meeting of the Association?

    "Can you also tell me where I can find the state of geological
Topinion as to the supposed Mariven Fault in the North Devon bed?

I read a good deal about it in the Geological Society's ransaetions last
year. Also any hints on geological problems, e.g. the sunken forest

below the    pebble ridge  at Northam, and the    flint   implements   said to
have been    found in it.  My poor friend Dech,  who     found them,
                                                                      I think,

is just dead.
"On the whole, anything that you can send me to post me up for
"Imy address, in any direction, will be most thankfully received.
             have had a preposterous request from the printers, through

M---- the Secretary, that I should send them the MS. of my address
             4th. Do they think aman has nothing to
bI ywtahnet  a whole fortnight after the Ist to write  do but to serve them?
                                                       my address, and have

two lectures and a scientific conversazione to get done between now

and then. Pray protect me from the sharks, or slugs, if you are con
cerned in the matter."

     During the meeting of the British Association at Edinburgh
in 1871, Pengelly writes to his wife--

     "I was so very busy yesterday as to be unable to write to you.
On Monday evening the lions fed. It was not a very great success, still
Iby no means a failure. After
IMisses Stevenson's. Yesterday
                           dinner went to a huge party at the

                             lent a hand in sections " C" and "A,"
1869--1871.] BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT EDINBURGH.                                                  207

and then went to the Committee of Recommendations, where without

Iany difficulty I got another grant (£100) for Kent's Cavern. After that

to dine with a Mr. Smith, where met Harkness and a lot of other men,
some strangers to me. Then to the Conversazione, and finally to an

` At Home' at Lord Neave's, where I met Miss Dundas (formerly my
            Torquay) and Mr. Shuttleworth and                      Mrs. Prestwich
            me to dine to-night (Wednesday),   his bride.
                                                  but           was engaged. I
Ipupil at

invited
received an invitation      to dine with Mr. Cowan on Friday next
is out of the question,                                                                  ; but  that
                            Ias am to leave for home to-night. . .                        ."

                      f.Professor IV. Dawson to Pengelbl.

                                         " McGill College, Montreal, July 3, 1871.
    "I have recently been writing some popular articles on geology,
Iand have arrived at the crucial point of the tacking on of geological to

human time. In doing so, propose to take your explorations of Kent's
ICavern as one of the best
                                 and     mcoosnt fidinesntcruec. tiveAsexIamcapnlenso,t  and   almost
the only one deserving of       much                                                       be  at the

British Association meeting, shall regard it as a very great favour if
you will kindly send me any full report of what has been most recently
                                         Report for 1870, except in an abstract).
done  (IfI  have not  seen  as  yet the  this you will much oblige."
            you have  time  to  answer
. ..

                      Pengelly t'o Dr. Dawson, F.R.S.

                                         "Lamorna, Torquay, August 29, 1871.

    "Yours of July 3rd found me very busy preparing for the British
Association, and with no more leisure than just to allow me to

send you copies of such Kent's Cavern Ipapers as had by me, and
Iappeared not to be in your possession.
I. .                                     trust they reached you safely.
                                    yIoushaalclopryeaodf
at   - hope to be     able to send                         our  Seventh    Report, read
    Edinburgh, in     a few days.                         your   article,  in which you

make the attempt to `tack on geological to human time,' with great

interest."

    The Chair of Section "C" was occupied this year by

Professor Geikie, F.R.S,* whose vast geological knowledge,

and special interest in his native country, rendered the choice a

particularly happy one. In the Seventh Report on Kent's
Cavern, presented at this meeting, Pengelly writes thus :--

     "On the completion of the work in the Sloping Chamber on July
11, 1871, the excavation of the ` Wolf's Den,' which opens out of its
northern side, was begun. It was in this den that Mr. MacEnery found
the canines of Maenairon'm laz`z'a'ens, which have excited so much
attention. N 0 such specimens have been met with during the present

investigation up to this time."

     * Now Sir Archibald Geikie, Director-General of the Geological Surveys of the
United Kingdom.
208                            WILLIAM PENGELLY.               [CH. XIII.

     What pleasure it would have given the keenly watchful

explorer of Kent's Cavern had he known that in the next

report he would be able to announce the discovery of a tooth

of this rare species!
     Besides the Yearly Report on the Cave, Pei.ngelly read a paper

before Section " A," on " The Influence of the Moon on the

Rainfall." He had for some time taken considerable interest in

the subject of the Rainfall, especially that of Devonshire, and for

many years kept careful meteorological statistics at his residence

in Torquay. The following were among the conclusions with
                                                            '
which the paper closed :--                        _

      " N0 indication of the moon's influence on the rainfall can be
detected in the data furnished by an isolated (unalion, or by even a few
successive lunationr. Though it may be doubted whether the rainfall
statistics of a period shorter than that in which the moon's nodes com
plete a revolution, or of a solitary locality, would justify general infer
ences, the data under discussion appear to indicate that, in the long run,
the moon does somewhat influence the rainfall ; that on the average the
dry period of a lunation extends from the first day before full moon to
the first day before the third quarter, and the wet period from the day
of the first quarter to the second day before the full moon; that the
moon's influence on the number of wet days is less marked, and that the

rainfalls are, on the whole rather, least heavywhen the moon has north
declination, and when she is in perigee, all indications harmonizing well
with physical considerations."

When presenting his Annual Reports on the Cavern at the

meetings, Pengelly usually exhibited some of the specimens

found during the year. These, gelatinized and securely stitched

down upon separate trays, proved of much interest to the public,

though their charge during the journeys involved no inconsider

able amount of anxiety to the exhibitor.

One day when the cavern exploration had been in progress

about six years, a young lady of his acquaintance called, and said,

"Mr. Pengelly, you remember that our cook once lived with
you P" "Yes." "Well, yesterday she and the nurse were

heard having the following discussion. Said the cook, ` Mr.

Pengelly calls the bones what he finds to Kent's Cavern

'Possil's bones, but I say how can he know the bones of the

'Possils from the bones of other men?' ` Well,' said the nurse,

` I've heard say as he is uncommon clever, besides nobody
knows where the Garden of Eden was, and, if so, why shouldn't
iAt pboesthleerse,beanP d"'if
                               'twas here, where else should the bones of the

                               It was evidently thought by these two eminent
   lucnzs                           ar  4'
       am,                  2
            .
              o
            ,

A  TYPICAL TRAY 0F FLINT IMPLEMENTS         PREPARED FOR TRANSMISSION.

                                                                                       j).  208.

                                                                        [
                                                                        To fare
1869-1871.] vPRE-HISTORIC MAN IN KENT'S CAVERN.  209

theologians that the word fossil was synonymous with Apostle,
or as they called it 'Possz'l.

    The Cavern was still yielding many fine specimens. In
the _Monthly Report`er September, 1871, Pengelly states that
they had entered and commenced work in the "WolFs Cave,"

where MacEnery had found the five teeth of Mackairoa'us
Zaz`z'dens. Though much of the material had been broken up
and searched by MacEnery, considerable portions of the deposit

remained intact, especially beneath and between large masses
of limestone which had fallen from the roof.

     " Without reckoning the numerous specimens found, as usual, in the
broken ground, we had found'in the Wolf's Cave, up to the end of
August, twenty-six teeth of hyaena, thirty-two of horse, fifteen of
rhinoceros, six of deer, five of bear, one of lion, and one of elephant,
portions of five antlers, numerous bones and bone fragments, amongst
which those of rhinoceros greatly preponderated, but no trace of Machai
rodus. The fallen masses of limestone, many of them several tons in
weight, were all completely buried in the cave-earth; but between them
at the eastern side, and near the entrance of the `Cave,' there were
occasional cavities or interspaces, having little or no deposit, but in some
instances containing a few comparatively modern bones. In others
there were Pecten shells, some of them of great size, and amounting
altogether to about twenty-five. Most of them were quite perfect, some
had Serpulae attached to their inner surfaces, and many of them were
thickly encrusted with carbonate of lime, containing traces of charcoal.
In one instance two, and in another five shells were found fitted neatly
one in another, and firmly cemented, leaving no doubt that Man had
placed them in the cavities in which they were found."

    In the October Report for the same year, after enumerating
the number of specimens found during September, it is men

tioned that---

" Many of the teeth are in portions of jaws, and some are very fine
specimens. We may specially mention the left lower jaw of rhinoceros
with a small part of the right jaw attached to it. Unlike the Cavern
jaws in general, its lower border is entire, but its hinder or articulating
end is gone. It contains four consecutive molars, and is quite the
finest specimen of the kind we have met with. . . . One of the

elephants' teeth has belonged to an adult animal, and the upper surface

of the crown is six inches long."  .

     During the autumn of this year, Pengelly stayed with some
friends at Harrogate. He was much interested with the various
places which he visited in that neighbourhood, more especially
with the Dripping Well at Knaresborough.

                                                                                                            P
2 [0                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                             [CI-I. XIII.

                       Pengelly to his W

    " Harrogafc, September 3, r87r.-HereI am, safe and sound, after a

pleasant journey to, at least, Leeds. We were half an hour late in

leaving Leeds, and nearly as much more in getting here. Such a rough
lot of passengers from Leeds!                                 Third-class
passengers going where they liked  !  Smoking everywhere.*
                                       (Saturday night.) And  when I got
                                                                           a full
here, there was no fly to be had,     and no porter,   so   had to   wait  driver
quarter of an hour till a chance fly  drove by, which      secured,  the
                                                        I
being so drunk as to be scarcely able to keep his seat. At the door he

fell off on his head, which I hope was very thick. The ladies were still up,
and gave me such a warm greeting. We are just going to church.
I IMr. Jervoise, General and Mrs. Gascoigne, the Bishop of Chester, are
here, and shall see them all, no doubt.   hope the work is going on

well."

     The ex-Emperor Napoleon, with the Prince Imperial, came
to Torquay during the month of September. In the following
month they visited Kent's Cavern, under the guidance of
Pengelly, and seemed greatly impressed and interested, giving

careful attention to all that was pointed out and explained.

                       Professor Rocmer t0 Pengelly.

                                                                  " Breslau, September 22, 1871.

" I safely came back to Breslau, and soon afterwards had here the
meeting of the German Geological Society, which was very successful
and attended by nearly all our best men in the Geological depart
ments. The last day of the meeting was spent in a very interesting
            to our Silesian Mountain range, the
excursion   Fraas, of Stuttgart, who has explored  Riesengebirge.          the
     " Mr.                                         with marked success
ossiferous caverns of Wiirtemberg, and who might be called the German
Pengelly, was among the attendants of the meeting. These days of
excitement and of much trouble to me having passed away, my first

business shall be to write to you, and repeat to you my very best thanks

for the  kindness and  hospitality which you have shown me during my
stay at                shall always remember these days as the most
         Torquay. I

pleasant and instructive ones of my journey. Our excursion to Hope's
Nose was particularly interesting to me. Not less my visit to Kent's
Cavern, for the careful and systematic exploration of which the
scientific world is chiefly indebted to you. The rumour of the ex

IEmperor Napoleon's coming to Torquay, which was current when
was there, has since become a reality. The ex-Emperor, although he
committed in these last years
selection of Torquay that he   some considerable blunders, shows           by his
                                                                           doubt
                               is still a man of taste. I have no
that he will soon try to make the acquaintance of the man who deserves
most to be known at Torquay, and who will be particularly valuable to
him, because he probably wants a refreshment of his humour. Pay my

     * Smoking in railway carriages was always a great trial to Pengelly, who, even
as a sailor boy, could never endure the smell of tobacco.
1869-1871.] NAPOLEON THE THIRD AT TORQUAY.                           211

respects to Mrs. Pengelly, and express to her, if you please, my best

thanks for the pleasant hours spent at your house. . . ."

                               Mrs. Pengelly to a Friend.
     " Torquay, September 20, 1871.---- . . . William called by invitation
on the ex-Emperor Napoleon tO-day (he has been staying here for
some time with his son). He was extremely pleasant, and anxious to

hear all about the cavern. . . ."

                                  Mrs. Pengelly to a Friend.
     " Torquay, Ortoher 2.--- . . . The Emperor, accompanied by the
Prince Imperial, Prince Achille Murat, Dr. Conneau and his son, and
several members of the suite, called on us to-day, to see the fossils,

etc. It was a very informal visit. He introduced his son, a nice

bright, intelligent-looking boy, who seemed to take a lively interest
in his father's conversation with William, relative to the various objects
found in the cavern. Speaking of the habitats of various animals,
the Emperor mentioned that the rat, which had entered Paris with the
Allies, had quite destroyed the old rats, and supplanted them there.
The party remained for some time, talking and examining the various
remains. . . ."

                               Mrs. Pengelly to her Sister.

     "Torquay, Oetoher.-- . . . Colonel Kruppf" his wife and only son
(who is very delicate), the doctor and tutor, are all staying here now.
They, too, have been to the cavern, and also paid us a very pleasant
visit. They invited William and me to join them in a party to spend
the day at Brixham, but we were not able to go. It must be rather
galling to the Emperor to be constantly meeting the man whose inven
tion has been so fatal to his country and himself."

     Before leaving Torquay the Emperor sent the following
autograph letter to Pengelly :--

                       Napoleon [I]. to Pengelly.

                       "Torquay, le 17 October, 1871.

    "Je lirai, monsieur, avec un vif intérét les livres que vous avez

bien voulu m'envoyer, et qui renferment les résultats importans de vos

scientifiques recherches. Je saisis cette occasion de vous remercier de

l'obligeance que vous m'avez temoignée, et je vous prie de recevoir mes

sentimens distingués.                              " NAPOLEON.

    "Je vous prie de faire également mes remerciments                a votre ami,

M. Vivian."
                                         * Inventor of the new gun.
212                               WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [CI-I. XIII.

                                           IV. Fronde lo Pengelly.

                                                           "Chelston Cross, October 11, 1871.

     "Shall you, in the natural course of events, be at the cavern to-day,
and, if so, will it inconvenience you (well, of course it is sure to do
that to a man whose time is always filled up with work; but will it
inconvenience you too mueh) to have time enough in hand to talk to

two ignoramuses who wish to learn,* one of whom (I answer for myself)
is very glad whenever he feels bold enough or entitled to say of himself
in praise, what St. Paul mentioned as the proof of the special wicked
ness of the Egyptian magicians,                       Itthheadtonthr'tuethbis'e?lie`evve(eFrothrlaetIartnthhiniengkwiatshneadstt
able to arrive at a knowledge of                                                                                                  never
`ever learning' is something, and
                                                                                                                                  to be
                                                                                                                                   of us

can   "feMelythbartothheer,haws hqouiitse   found it  all  out  completely    and   perfectly.)
                                           the older  of   the  two, has a  better   memory,
                                                                                                                                  and
is better deserving of being told things than I am, and would specially
like
      "toIfseyeouthweilcl anvoet  under    your guidance.       if
                                   be at   the cavern, and          you  will be to be found                                      at

home, shall you be visible there . . . or is nothing less than an
emperor receivable at Lamorna. (I suppose the Emperor now may

think himself capable of sitting to a landscape painter for a view of the

Lamorna Cooe.)1' But if you will be probably visible at home, let me

know, please, and we will be down on you there."

                                           IV. Froude to Pengelly.

                                                      " Chelston Cross, November 16, 1871.
      "I am ashamed (but some people don't mend when they are ashamed)
Ito think what trouble                     may be giving you, in asking you to let

Ifriends go round the cavern with you in                          yoIoffurytoimudeaw,ilyoIuclvdoisuiltodantciaoelnw,wayhwsishpisceahry

anyhow must be a great tax on your time.
in my ear really it is an undue absorption
know it to be so. But if you are so good-natured that even if

entitled to `curse with your heart' you only `give good words with

your"  mouth and    manner                 I will say that          my brother-in-law,         Mr. J.
       Well, after  this preamble,
Holdsworth (revising barrister in north dislriet, so look out for the
conservation of     your vote), Sir        W. Topham, a friend of ours,
Mr. Waldegrave        (son of Lady                                                  and young
                                           Chewton, whom I think you                met a day
or two since, and whom if she asked the favour herself you could not

  refuse, her manner and expression are so pleasing), and perhaps my
' daughter would like pare tad, but perhaps not at your pace, to see the
Ifinte"rioMraoyf
       the cavern at                       your usual hour.     you      austerely  fossilize                                     them
       they come?                              they come will

by sternness of manner, or will you mollify towards them, as the rocks
were mollified by Hannibal's vinegar?
                                  hour you will                                     I wish I also
Icould"Plceoamsee;sabyutatIwhat     cannot."               be at    the  cavern.
                     fear

    * William Froude himself, and his brother J. A. Froude.
    1' Pengelly's house was named after the Cove of "Lamorna," near the Land's
End, so this pun was frequently made.
1869--1871.] APPRECIATION OF MACENERY'S LABOURS.                            213

                           Professor Owen to Pengelly.

                                         " British Museum, December 20, 1871.

    "Accept my thanks for the ` Third Part' of your instructive
and exhaustive history of              Kent's Hole. As F .R.S.
Transaetions, and therefore            I don't trouble you with             you receive your
                                                                            duplicates there
from. But seeking about for what might     in
to equivalency for your Christmas gift to  me,                aInylitwaoyn  seem an approach
                                                                            an address which

includes some passing thoughts of medicine as a science, and to which

I add a communication on the sense in which classificatory characters

Iare"exprbeesnseefidteadndsoomuguhcth  to be understood.      sojourn       on the Nile that
                                         by my last winter's                wished to finish.
I II thought might try a winter at home, having work
But the first frosty morning brought back my bronchitis. The change
                                                                            but if we have a
Ito mildness has taken away the sharper symptoms,
return to ice and snow, I may be ordered to some                             milder region in
England than Upper Sheen. In that case may ask your good

ofiices to recommend a sitting-room and bedroom at Torquay."

     The following extract from a letter will show the generous

testimony which Pengelly always bore to MacEnery's labours
in Kent's Cavern. He paid so little attention to the recognition
of his own work there that the article which was asked for by

James Anthony Froude- in the following letter was never
written :--

    ".  .  . Mr. MacEnery deserves all   the honour           which we can do to
           am afraid, however, that his  personality          was so little known
him.    I
beyond Torquay and the neighbourhood that the readers of a general
magazine would turn away from an In Memoriam devoted to him
without caring to read it. If you would yourself erect a monument to
I Ihim in your own words by giving us a paper on Kent's Hole and the

discoveries there, need not say how gladly would accept it. Cannot

I persuade you to do this? It would be but a recast of the same
materials. MacEnery has been dead so long, and the investigations in
the cavern have been carried so much further in subsequent years, that
                                         for the limit you lose the strongest
           his  part of    the business   shall perhaps be at Torquay for a
           the   reader's
                            interest. I
Iby taking

claim on
day or two in the winter, when shall hope to renew my acquaintance

with you. . . ."
214                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                  [CI--1. XIV.

                        CHAPTER XIV.

                        THE MENTONE CAVERNS.

                                                                             1872.

A FEW lectures in the North occupied part of the holidays

during the winter of 1871 to 1872, and Pengelly thus writes
home :--

     "Kendal, fanuary, 1872.---- . . . On Friday morning Mr. Taylor

Itook me over his mill (cotton spinning), and thereby greatly interested

me. then took a look at the town of Bolton, saw a monument to,
and the grave of, Crompton. Then to luncheon with Mr. Worthington,
Secretary of the  BoI ltobnegaLnectbuyre stSaoticniegty.thatMsyo
                                                                  lecture  was a success,
the people say.                                                    far as
                                                                           I knew I was
unknown to every one in the room, but funnily enough, when the
vote of thanks was proposed to me, a young man rose to support
                        I
                                 I

                                                 a

                                        I
                                                                aI

                                                                                                           it,
and said that he knew me very well, that he had frequently been in
Kent's Cavern, and that he was native of Torquay.                          left Bolton

for this at three, but didn't get here till after seven, the trains being,

as usual on Saturdays, very late.  found waiting me letter from
Bishop Ryan, now vicar of Bradford, asking me to be his guest, during

my stay at Bradford.    fancy shall very much enjoy my stay here."

                        Pengelly to his Vszo.

  - " T/ze Vz'mrage, Bradford, fanuary 26, 187 2.--I-Iere am, the guest
of the good Bishop Ryan, and am to remain in that capacity until
                                                                  aI
to-morrow morning, when start for Leicester. We had very pleasant
                        I

time at Keighley on Wednesday, where Mr. Callaway, the Secretary of
the Bradford Phil. Soc., handed me dear Trot's welcome letter and

enclosures.  a   remained with Mr. Brigg until yesterday, when he

              I
brought me here, and placed me in the hands of the Bishop. Bradford
   now in state of great political excitement, and there was large
is                                   it

                                          I

                                                     a

                                                          Ia
political meeting last night, at the very moment was lecturing, hence

my audience was small; nevertheless            was most satisfactory

gathering.   am glad to think that four out of my six lectures have
             I

                     ;
now been given my voice has not been affected in the least.                am

going to Saltaire to-day, the Bishop having secured me one of the Mr.
THE CAVE AT MENTONE.  [Tofaeep .214.
1872.]      PENGELLY'S INTEREST IN ASTRONOMY.                                                    215

Salts to be my guide through                        theevegryrewahterwe,orkI sshhoaplsl  there. Though I

hI afivnedbmeeynsemlf ohstomkeindalgyainre."ceived                                       be delighted when

     Notwithstanding his geological labours, Pengelly found time
to devote to astronomy, in which he took much interest.

                Pengelly to Professor                    Cour/z Adams.

                                                                   " Torquay, January 12, 1872.

    " I trust you will pardon my intrusion, and my attempt to pick your

brains. The books tell me that at present the obliquity of the ecliptic

is diminishing at the rate of about forty--eight seconds per century, and
that there is a limit to this diminution. Will you be so good as to inform
me what, according to the present state of astronomy, are the maximum
and minimum values of the obliquity?"

                Professor                           C. Adams to Pengelbl.

                                    " Observatory, Cambridge, January 30, 1872.

to  " I hope you will pardon        me              for  nBoatthh, avwinhgenwrIittwenas  before   in reply
    your letter. It reached         me               at                                  away    from my
books and papers, and since my return home I have been too busy to

Imake the search required to enable me to give an answer to your
question.   am not aware that any trustworthy results respecting the

Igreatest and least values of the obliquity of the ecliptic have been
published, but  believe that, several years ago, I worked out the

problem for my own satisfaction, and obtained results which were
            approximate. I will                                                          papers, and if
fIairclayn                          make            a search among my
             find the calculations                   with much pleasure                  send you the
                                    I will

result."

     Though, as already stated, Pengelly paid little attention to
the recognition of his own work, he was glad of the opportunity
to correct inaccurate statements as to his labours. The follow
ing extract is taken from a letter written by him to the author
of a geological book, the proof-sheets of which had been sub

mitted to him for revision.

                                                                         "Torquay, February 9, 1872.

    "I have gone carefully over the proofs, so far as they relate to
Kent's and Brixham Caverns, and have made a few unimportant correc
            . You say ` the Exploration                  of (Brixham) cave in
tions. . .  by Dr. Falconer.' In the                     most unqualified way            the manner
suggested
                                                                                         I state that

the manner was  suggested by        Imleoooknlyf,orawnadrdhawvieth  so corrected it.             ...
                let me say,                                           great interest
    "And now,                                                                                    to the

forthcoming of your book."

    In writing to the Rev. W. S. Symonds, Pengelly throws light

                                                                                                                                        4
216                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                          [CH. XIV.

upon the physical geography of the Polperro fish beds, and shows
that there is no evidence of the occurrence of hippopotamus in

Kent's Cavern, as mentioned incidentally by Professor Owen.

                     ngelly to Ron. IV. S. Symonds.

                                       " Torquay, March 17, 1872.

    " I have traced the Polperro fish bed all the way from the

River Fowey to the Rame Head at the entrance to Plymouth Sound.
Mr. Loughrun knows the fish bed near Polperro of course, but east of
that he has no acquaintance with it. The key to the succession of beds
about Polperro, Pencarrow Head, etc., is to be seen in the cliff about a
mile west of my native place Looe. In passing from Liskeard to Looe,

we have a continuous ascending series, which is c0ntinued beyond the
latter place to Port Nadler--the spot in the cliff just mentioned. Here
there is a synclinal axis, and beyond, i.e. south-west of we get, by
continuing along the road, an entire reversal of the dip, and successivelyI I' I it,
lower and lower beds. instead of as before higher and higher. In short
we get beds we had passed between Looe and Port Nadler repeated,   I
                                                                      I
the bone bed         directly above the Pleuroa'idyum slates, and directly
is                                                                                          P
            a

               I is
below the Plymouth limestones, 216. the place of the slates of Mudstone
Bay, in which have also found the Polperro fish. If, however, there
not great fault in Whitesand Bay by which these slates are brought
up again at the Rame Head, the fish remains must occupy the slates
above the limestones as well as those below them. When next am

in your neighbourhood, you and H011 and must meet and talk this
                                       I

                                             a
matter over. When at Plymouth did you see the tusk of hippopotamus

and what the evidence that was found in cave there?              see no
ita priori objection to its having been so found, but in all these casesis it

      a
                 is
perfectly trustworthy evidence required. Owen incidentally mentions
the occurrence of hippopotamus in Kent's Cavern Bellamy speaks of
                                                  ;

at Oreston, near Plymouth and an anonymous writer gives Chudleigh
                      I
                                  ;
                                   is
cavern, about 12 miles from this, as one of its localities.  have shown

in printed paper that there no evidence in the first case. About
the second and third can say nothing. Busk says the Oreston

rhinoceros was the leplorfiino, or great southern form, not the lic/zor/zine.
The hippopotamus would be similar companion. Some years ago,
                     a

                               Ia
Ormerod bought, at shop at Teignmouth, teeth said by the dealer to
be found in Kent's Cavern.
                                       identified them as molars of hippo

potamus, and this was confirmed by Boyd Dawkins.             demanded

proof of their having been found in Kent's Cavern. Ormerod went
thoroughly into the question, and came out of with the avowal that
there was no evidence whatever. Buckland mentions hippopotamusit
teeth amongst the remains found in Kirkdale Cave, and see Boyd
Dawkins places him there (the hippopotamus, not Buckland) as wellI
as in the caverns of Cefn, Dnrdham Down, Difont Den (Gower), and
Ravensclifl (Gower).  There seems no reason, therefore, why he should
not turn up in some   of the Devonshire caverns.
                                                     shall be glad to
hear of the results of your investigations in your Wye Cavern."
1872.]         THE FOSSIL MAN AT MENTONE.                                       217

               Ken. W. S. Symon/ls to Pengelly,

                                                               " Pendock, Tuesday.

     "Thanks for your note

Igeography of the Polperro
Ifault at Whitesand Bay.
                          and explanations respecting the physical

                          fish beds.  thought there must be a

                          wrote a short letter to the Geological
Magazine, and sent it two days ago, calling the attention of amateurs
to the Polperro rocks and their fish beds. It is a thousand pities they
Iare not worked out by quarrying on purpose for specimens. At Lantiver
Bay am sure    thIeywewnotulwdithturMn rso.utStyrmeaosnudrses   for those who   have time
to work them.                                                  to Oreston, and   there we

saw a Mr. Hodge, who has a collection of bones from Oreston, and

who read a paper on them at Aberdeen; he showed us a number
stowed away in a box, and on my coming to a tusk of hippopotamus
he informed me that he obtained it from a cave at Plymouth Hoe and

not from Oreston. . . ."

     In the spring of 1872 considerable interest was caused by
the announcement of the discovery, in a cavern at Mentone, Of
what was supposed to be a fossilized skeleton of a palaeolithic
or neolithic man. Sir William Tite, who was Pengelly's inti
mate friend, and had greatly enjoyed attending his lectures
during winter visits at Torquay, was very desirous that the case
should be investigated, and Wrote asking him to undertake the
journey to Mentone for this purpose, Offering to provide the
needful funds. Pengelly feared that the case might not prove
sufficiently clear to repay the trouble and expense ; but he was
quite willing to undertake the expedition, should it be likely to
be of scientific value. Sir William, in reply, kindly said, " Even
if the cave Offers but few attractions, the thorough change of
scene and climate will do you both a world ofgood.* All which
is a mere acknowledgment on my part, if you will allow me to
put it so, of the many hours of infinite pleasure and information
which you have given me at Torquay." The journey was
accordingly undertaken, and proved of much interest.

    A few extracts from "Notes on the Mentone Cavern," sent
by Pengelly shortly afterwards to Sir Charles Lyell, give a brief

outline Of the Cavern and its contents :--

     " Upwards of a mile east of Mentone, and about a furlong on the
Italian side of the gorge separating Italy from France, in a vertical red
cliff of Jurassic limestone, there are several small caverns which for
some years have attracted the attention of men Of science. . . . In 1872
Dr. Riviere, who, having been charged with a scientific mission, was

                     * He had kindly included Mrs. Pengelly in the mission.
21 8  WILLIAM l'ENGELLY.  [CH. XIV.

engaged in exploring the quarries and caverns in the environs of Nice
and Mentone, discovered in that known as la Berma o'u Caz/illon,
bones of a human foot, and after the continuous and careful labour of
eight days, disclosed an entire human skeleton. The full daylight
reaches the inner end of the cavern, and thus enabled Dr. Riviere to
have an excellent photograph of the skeleton taken in sz'fn. The body
lay in the longitudinal direction of the cavern, near the right or east
wall, and about twenty feet within the entrance. The skull was of a red
colour, and covered with numerous perforated marine shells, all of one
species, Nessa Nerz'tra, and twenty-two perforated canines of stag ; the
whole having probably been a chaplet. Near the left tibia forty-one
perforated shells of the same species were found, the remains, it is
supposed, of an anklet. A bone instrument, pointed at one end, lay
across the forehead. The skull was very dolichocephalic, and the facial
angle, though not capable of being accurately measured, amounted to
from 80° to 85°. The forearm had been broken and healed during life.
The attitude indicated that the man died in his sleep, in the place

where he was found. Surrounding and above the body, were fifty
unpolished flint `points,' scrapers and flakes; a fragment of a small
bone needle ; shells of Patellaferrugz'nea, Peehmeulus glyeimerz's, Car-Ilium

rnstieum, Cardz'um ea'ule, Alytilns ednlz's, Peeten jaeobeus, the last
containing traces of charcoal, and many others; and the remains of
the following mammals,'in determining which Dr. Sénéchal had assisted :
Fells spelrea, Ursns spelaus, Ursus aretos, Canis lupus of great size,
Erinaeeus, ha'noeeros tiehorhinus, Sns sorofa, Bo: primzjgenius, Cert/us
alees, Cerr/us elaphus, Cermes eanaa'ensz's, Corvus capreolus, Capra
pringenia Gervais, Antilope rapieapra and Lepus. Dr. Riviere is of
opinion that the Cave lion, Cave bear, and rhinoceros, found near
the skeleton, and on a superior level, indicate the epoch of the man.
The skeleton has been taken to Paris and lodged temporarily in the
fara'in o'es Plantes, where it was investigated by Mr. Vivian and myself,
and we afterwards proceeded to Mentone to inspect the Cavern."

    A short time afterwards, in answer to a question from Sir

Charles Lyell, Pengelly writes :--"In reply to your question, I say
very confidently that there was not a single polished flint imple

ment lying near the skeleton, nor in the room where the skeleton

Ilay, when I saw it at the Jardin des Plantes in Paris, but there

was a vast number of unpolished flakes, etc., and was assured by
Riviere that not a single polished implement had been found."

     During July, 1872, the Devonshire Association met at Exeter,
under the able chairmanship of the Bishop of the Diocese, Dr.

Temple, whose sterling qualities and breadth of view had always
been admired by Pengelly, and who was already warmly

appreciated in the county where he had been received at first

with some feelings of apprehension. In making arrangements
for the meeting, Sir John Bowring assisted Pengelly with his
                       ---.

THE MENTONE SKELETON.        [Tofaeep  218.
187a]               PENGELLY AS A REVIEWER.                             219

usual energy, and in writing to him speaks of the Bishop's
interest in the meeting, and concludes with the following
remarks :--

   I". . . have just left the Bishop.       He  will suggest      two   or three of
                                                suggest they       are
the scientific clergy for vice-presidents.   I                           raroe aoes
in o"urHweowodissh. es to have a set of our Transaetious. . . 7,

     Pengelly received from Mr. Edward Tylor some interesting
facts which threw some light upon his theory as to the human

skeleton found in the cavern near Mentone.

                    Pengelly to Edward Hlor.`

                                                "Torquay, June 11, 1872.

     "Thank you very much for your kind and interesting letter
of the 9th, which reached me this morning. The South American
tribes, who bury their dead in their huts, and still continue to live in
them, are my prime favourites at this moment. The fact is that, in
thinking on the circumstances connected with the human skeleton
recently found in the Cavern near Mentone, it seemed that they
rendered it necessary to suppose that his (or hers, as the case may be)
friends buried him  in the cave which still continued to be their       home,
                    to find some justification for such an idea.
and I was anxious
"Any further facts that'you may meet with, and will kindly
communicate at your leisure, will be gratefully received and acknow

ledged."

     Pengelly's extreme accuracy in describing facts was recog
nized by all those who knew him well. The charge, sometimes
made against reviewers, of reading only such portions Of the
volumes they criticize as are to be got at without cutting, could
never apply to him, for when asked to review a book, he always
read it through from end to end two or three times, and even
then had misgivings lest he should fail in doing full justice to
the author's meaning.

    It was not only in the domain of science, that this striking

accuracy was shown, as some extracts from the following
Paper, written by him, and entitledT " Is it a Fact?" will prove.
After some preliminary remarks, he writes :--

     "The discrepancies in the narratives of a dozen eye-witnesses of
the same event are sometimes very startling. Here, however, other
sources of error besides defective memory come into play. Every
person's narrative is necessarily, to some extent, subjective. There

    * Now Professor Tylor.
    1' Read before the Meeting of the Devonshire Association at Exeter in 1872.
220                       WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                              [CI--1. XIV.

were things in the event to which his mind was keenly alive, and which

he watched almost to the exclusion of other points equally important;
whilst these, in their turn, took almost exclusive hold of another

observer, and so on.                               themselves                      partisans, and
      " Further, observers frequently make                                         their narratives
                                                   for it. In
sometimes without being able to account

they unintentionally soften or suppress certain facts, and give undue

prominence   or a strong   colouring  to others.   in the course                   of this  paper,
             be well to   state thus  early that,
    "It may
some illustrative cases which have occurred within my own experience
will be given. They will be stated with the most scrupulous regard to
accuracy, with the single exception that, where it seems desirable, the
names of                places will be
     "Not  persons and  was informed    fictitious.                                whom  I will call
                                         by a gentleman,
           long ago I
Mr. Loppj" that [Miss Pontoon, a friend of his, had seen at Westward
Ho, North Devon, a man from Birmingham converting the flints he
found on the strand into knives, which he sold to various museums at

a great price ; and that he visited the place every summer, as the flints
found there were of a superior quality for the purpose of his trade.
There was much in the story calculated to inspire one with doubt; and
as it was supposed, by both the lady from whom it had come, and the
Igentleman who told it me, to be fatal to the doctrine of the great

antiquity of man, expressed a wish to examine it thoroughly. Miss

Pontoon was readily induced to give me permission to make the investi
gation, and to publish the result. In order to render all the assistance
in her power, she sent me, through Mr. Lopp, the following written

statement--

     " `About the beginning of August, 1866, we were at Westward Ho,
and one day calling at `Horsa,' we were shown into one of the lower
sitting-rooms to wait; and the apology made to us for the litter of the
room, which was a good deal strewn with stones, etc., was that they
were the property of a gentleman who came generally every year to
collect them from the pebble ridge and make them into the knives
which we saw partly finished. The woman said he came from
Birmingham, and was very clever, and made a great deal of money
out of them, as they wanted them at the Museum.
                                                                     " ` (Signed)  .M. P0NT00N.'

    " It will be seen that already the case has become slightly shrunken.

The lady had not seen the Birmingham gentleman make the knives;

Ishe had been lola', apparently by a servant girl, that he made them.

     "On the day the foregoing statement reached me, addressed the
following letter--

     " ` To the Lady who keeps the Lodging-house known as Horsa,
                                          Westward Ho.

"`A Istatement, of which              " ` Lamorna, Torquay,                        February 2, 1869.

                                      enclose a copy,                              has just reached
me from Miss M. Pontoon of this town, respecting                                   a gentleman who

           * Throughout this PaPer fictitious names are Printed in italics.
1872.] ` HOW STORIES GROW.                                                                                      22 1

appears to have lodged at your house in 1866 and some previous years.
Will                                             the gentleman's address, as
      you be so   good as    to favour me with   knives he makes? Pardon
I am   desirous  of writing  him respecting the
the trouble I give you.'

" As soon as the post could bring               received the following reply --
                                                iIt,                                                            :
                                                    I
                             " Horsa House, Westward Ho, February 4, 1869.                                       I
                 I

                               ;
                                      `
"`In answer to your note, which                        received this morning,
beg to state that have no recollection of Miss Pontoon calling at
Horsa in August, 1866 but about that time there was a gentleman

from I/Vidrinker (not from Birmingham) who was collecting flint-stones,
which he dug out of the sands when the tide was out. He has been
here every year since Horsa was opened, and
summer. He has collected                               is      coming again this

                             is          great number, and,I is  believe, presents
them to the Museum; but don't think he makes them into knives.
Some of them are indeed the shape or form of knives, therefore yourI
                                      a                Mr. Henry Sanderson,
friend's mistake. The gentleman's name
VVia'rinker. In fact, he this year the Mayor of VVidrz'nker; therefore

perhaps you know him.

    "`There have been other gentlemen stopping at my house who
have made collections, but none to the extent that Illr. Sanderson has

made.'

"Such was, no doubt, the genuine story of the Westward Ho flint

knives, which, may be stated, proved to be precisely what expected,

as the case was well known to me from the beginning. It may not be
a
                        it

                      I it,
                                                    a

                                    a a ;it it is I a

                                                                           if

                                                             I

                                                                                                          is ;
uninteresting to note the metamorphoses the story had undergone in its

passage through one single person, who, though she no doubt had a

decided bias, was highly educated, well-informed, and utterly incapable
of intentional misrepresentation. The gentleman was not from Bir
mingham, but Widrinker; did not make, but found, the knives not in

the pebble ridge, but in the sands; and did not sell, but presented,

them to the Museum.

"Unfortunately, moreover, tendency to prevarication                                                             among
the defects of human nature.
                                                refer not so much to the holder and

more audacious falsehood, as to untruthfulness in what are regarded as
small things--the minor details of a narrative. Memory, perhaps, was
little at fault, or one or two links in the chain were not carefully

noted, and what appeared to be the probabilities, or, the expression
may be used, the inevitabilities, were called in to supply the defects.
Thus, in some instances,
                                         story  rendered more complete by him
who narrates it; and this not with any desire of, or indifference to,
exaggeration. On being told him, suggested one or two things, perhaps,

which were recalled on repeating                and, forgetting that they had really

nothing to do with be annexed them to the story.

    "Not long ago stated on public occasion that no one knew
anything about the origin of the name of Kent's Cavern, near Torquay,
that, indeed, there was not even tradition or legend respecting it. In
the course of the evening, the late Mr. Charles Babbage, who had heard

the remark, told me what had once been given to him as the origin
222                                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                       [CH. XIV.

of the name. This                    story   I. a  day or          two   after, related at  a      dinner table,
                                      as it   had   been           told  to me. Within      a      week after it
precisely, I believed,
was told me, a
tioned, related               lady,  who had heard the story                    on the occasion last men
                              it to  an evening party; when
                                                                                Mr. Babbage and I were
               The following is the story as she                         told it :--
prese"n`tI.t  is said that a dog, which was lost                         in the cavern,     was    some             time

after found in the county of Kent, wriggling up through a hole, and
having all its hairs turned perfectly white. From this it was concluded
that there was a subterranean passage from Devonshire to Kent, and
Ihence the name of the cavern.' On being appealed to by the narrator

  remarked that, with the exception of the statement respecting the colour
of the dog's hair, which                                                                                            Mr.
Babbage had told me.                 was quite      new, the             story was   `  pIresciimsepllyy     what   the
                                     ` Indeed      it is not,'           said he ;                            said

dog, lost in the cavern, was afterwards found in Kent, but not a word

about its wriggling up through a hole.' There was just as much
Idifficulty in convincing the lady that she had `improved ' the story, as

in satisfying me that had achieved the same thing.
    "Not long afterward, I was accompanied
                                                                                to the cavern             by a      dis
tinguished American writer, and on the way                                                                story     just
                                                                               I told him the
related, as it is given above. Subsequently it appeared in Harper's
New Mont/11y Magazine. The following is the American New
Version :--
     " `The legend as to its name
                                                a                  that traveller went in there with
                                                    is it                a

his dog; the traveller was never again heard of, but the dog was foundis
in a weak condition in the county of Kent, about one hundred andit is,
seventy miles distance.'* From this we learn, what we did not know

before, that the dog was taken to the cavern by man and traveller,
who was lost, and that the dog was found in weak condition.
                                                                                a       .
                                                                                                 .'
                                                                             a
                                                                                                     a
     "Whilst, so far as am aware, this                                   is  the most modern form this      a
                                     I                                      a

story has assumed, the following passage in the late Mr. MacEnery's

Manuscript, Cavern Researches,' apparently takes us back to its pre
                        `I       As indicating,'                 says, `the popular                          of the in
canine stage.                `of the cave, may     he            noticed tradition      [wnohticiohn]is
definite range                                     be                                                        seriously
                                        related that Sir George Cary, an ancestor of
told and believed.              It

                                    is

the present proprietor of the neighbouring abbey, despatched                                                   hawk

with billet and bells, in the hope of discovering its furthermost outlet
towards the sea. The hawk was taken on the coast of Kent, from which

circu"mTshtaonscee who           gravely aflirmed                  takes its
              is is it          have favourite, but                slenderly   name.T .                             are
                    is                                                         supported, hypotheses
greatly in danger of giving new circulation and an increased tenacity
of life to untrustworthy statements. Every alleged fact which can be
made useful hastily pressed into their service, and whatever men may
think respecting that which
                                                                 made to bolster up, the statement
itself attracts attention, and, thanks to the indolence too common

amo"ngTshteusd, utynootf        unfrequently       accepted as an unquestionable fact. . .                          .
                                verification
                                                    not at all times easy of accomplishment.
Some time ago had occasion to allude in paper to great gale of
                                                                             a
                                                                                                a

     * Harper's New Mont/11y Magazine, No. ccxiii., December,                           1868,      Vol.      xxxviii.
p. "1.
J1'
         See Trans. Devon. Assoc., vol. iii. p. 460 (1869.)
1872.]             VERIFICATION OF. STATEMENTS.                                      `

                                                                                               223

INovember, 1824, so fearfully destructive of life and property, especially

at Plymouth. At the time of this memorable storm, was a sailor boy,
and rode out the tempest in one of the branches of Plymouth harbour.
Though the only damage we sustained was the loss of our bowsprit, the
Ifact that it was my first winter at sea, and my first great gale, enabled it
to produce an inefi'aceable impression on my mind.                       believed the
date to be burnt in on my brain, and never doubted that the storm
                                              of November 24th,
commenced         on the  evening            In order, however, to  and   culminated   early  in
the morning       of the  25th.                                      be               wrote   to
                                                                         accurate, I

two friends at Plymouth, who perfectly remembered the storm, and had.
no doubt of their ability to determine the exact date.
     "The first reply informed me that `the great gale of November,
1824, commenced on the 24th and continued three days." This, so far
Ias the date was concerned, agreed with my own belief, and had my

second friend remained silent should have taken no further pains in the
matter. His reply, however, arrived in a few days, and stated that ` the

wind began to rise between nine and ten o'clock on the evening of
the 2 3rd of November, and increased in violence until between two and
three o'clock on the morning of the 24th, when the gale reached its
height. It then began to ease a little, and finally dropt almost suddenly
about half-past three, with a dreadful crash of thunder. By eleven
                  Sound was like
o'clo"ckIt  the    be seen that               a mill-pond.'  accounts  difi'er both   as to the
            will                             the foregoing
                    of the tempest.                     UMannydlesbIseliaIemfaismcotnhgfiardeteantnltyeitihtnhearte,roroifnrs,ttheetahmde
date and duration
is correct in the  latter particular.
gale did not last  twenty-four hours,
of being `like a mill-pond,' the Sound was exposed to a heavy swell

for  m" oArse  than a week.
               the discordance
                                of the replies          had rendered     the date uncertain,
I requested a friend to consult such county newspapers as were filed
in the Library of the Devon and Exeter Institution, and in a few days

he sent me three paragraphs respecting the gale, copied from Trewman's
Exeter lib/ing Post, of Thursday, November 25, 1824.
     "The first stated that `the storm began Monday, N0vember 22,
1824, at Exeter, early in the afternoon, and continued with little

inte"rruTphetionsefcoorntdw, endtya-tfeodur   hours.'   November 24, 1824, recorded
                                             Plymouth,

that `the wind last evening, at the south, increased to a hurricane,
and continued with unabated violence during the night; and it being
spring tide, the lowest parts of the town were inundated.'

     "The writer of the third paragraph, dated Plymouth, November 23,
1824, said, `We have been visited with one of the most tremendous
storms that ever was experienced here--perhaps the mart violent. It
began to blow hard yesterday at the turn of the tide, and continued
increasing in violence the whole night.'

    "Up to this point, five statements had come to hand, of which one
made the gale begin on the 24th, two on the 2 3rd, and two on the 22nd,

and to add to the amusing discordance, the three paragraphs from the

same newspaper did not agree.                be allowed      to stop here, I requested a

    "As the inquiry could not
friend to examine the local newspapers filed in the Cornwall County
224               '                    \VILLIAM -PENGELLY.                                           [CI-I. XIV.

Library at Truro. He promptly forwarded extracts from the Cornwall
Gazette of November 27, 1824, descriptive of the storm and its
ravages at Penzance, Falmouth, Fowey, and Polperro, in each of
                                       have begun on November 22nd.
which it          was   stated     to  remember that the Religious Tract                             Society       had
                  this   stage
    "At                            I

dpeupbolist,heId      a description    of this very storm. On application at the
                  readily obtained     a copy of and found that made the storm
                                       I
                                               I it,

                                                                   I

                                                                                      it
                                                                                                  a
begin on the 22nd. Beyond this made no inquiry, being willing to

accept the 22nd as the correct date, and to believe that, respecting a

great event whose progress had painfully watched, had for upwards

"Iof forty years unwaveringly held an opinion that was not fact.
            have often thought that every teller of `good things' must
frequently be in a state of great apprehensiveness when relating some
choice anecdote, epigram, or hon mot, lest some candid and kind friend
should remark, `Ohl that's                               very old Joe! It was first told of
                                                  a
So and So. . .          .'                            a
                               a
     "There formerly lived in Cornish town, two ministers of religion,
each having the same name, let us say `Jones,' and each D0ctor of
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                         a
Divinity, but one member of the Church of England, the other

Dissenter. It will be readily foreseen that letters and parcels frequently
went to the wrong house. On one occasion, so runs the story, the
clergyman of the Establishment received and opened letter intended
                                                                        a

for the eye of his namesake only. Perceiving the error, he reclosed
the letter and sent to him for whom was intended, and with
I                                                 a                                                          a it  the
                                   it
                                                    if
                                                                it
following laconic note z--`Sir, you had not taken to yourself title
to which you have no claim this mistake would not have occurred.
am, etc.' Some time after, the Nonconforming Doctor received
                                                                                                                   a

parcel, which proved to be series of manuscript sermons intended
for the Churchman. On detecting the mistake he forwarded the

parcel to its destination, accompanied by the following note :----` Sir,

you had not entered an ofl'ice for which you are apparently not
qualified, this mistake could not have happened.if
                                                                        am, etc.'
           a                                      I
                                                       a
        a aI                                                   it I
                                                                       I
                           aa
                                a                                                      it

                                                                                         I it
     "Having heard this story several times, once availed myself of

what seemed satisfactory opportunity for ascertaining whether were
                  was once introduced to brother of the dissenting Doctor,
a fact.

himself Nonconformist minister, and asked him whether the story
were truth or fiction. He replied that was unquestionably and
literally fact. Thus endorsed, had frequently told until was
informed by friend that he had often heard the same story of two
Reverend Doctors, of the name of `Brown,' we will suppose, who
resided in the same town in Sussex.

    "It would be easy to enlarge this budget of untrustworthy statements

which usually pass as facts, but probably enough has been said to show
                                       of verification.
the  "neIncescsoitnycluasnidond, uty   may allude to

                     it                                  the  numerous  slanders                     which,  from
                        is

                          It

                            is I

                                      P it

                                               a
time to time, appear in the public prints respecting many of our most
                                       true they have generally been disposed of in the
eminent men.

most satisfactory manner, and as soon as they have presented them
                        also true that they follow one another so rapidly as to
selves; but                                       Fact that the public pay no attention to the
induce one to ask, Is
continued cry of `Wolf' "
1872.]         LYELL'S "ANTIQU1TY OF MAN."                                                                    '

                                                                                                                  225

     Sir Charles Lyell was now about to set to work on a new
edition of the " Antiquity of Man " ; owing to increasing trouble,
from the state of his eyesight, he was unable to work for long

at a time.

                             Pengelly to Sir C/zarles Lyell.

                                                                                   " Torquay. June 8, 1872.

   I"Though I am afraid you greatly over-estimate my strength in

the question of Human Antiquity, and though have no prospect of

Isuch leisure, it will afford me great pleasure to devote such time as
   can command to the work you propose. . . ."

               Sir Charles Lyell lo Pengelly.

                                              " 73, Harley Street, July 2, 1872.
I I" . . .
               am much obliged to you for the notes which                       received
I'this
"mIomrnainyg,haavendtowhaisckh    are  just exactly what    want.      at Pentewan,                           for
                                you    about the change   of level
II am rather puzzled as to the period when it took place.
                                                                                                            see you
Iare not inclined readily to admit post-Roman changes of level, and I

expect that shall have to declare against them entirely, as regards
that part of Scotland where Geikie thought there was a change of

twenty-five feet.

    "My correspondence on this subject with Mr. Milne Home, and

Ithe sub-curator Young, of the Glasgow Museum, is becoming-so

interesting that think by-and-by of sending you the letters. The
antiquaries have recently found a new Roman inscription, which shows
that the legion which finished the building of the wall, left 011' a few

yards from where they would now,       from the           present   I  shore,   and only a
                                       the sea.                         think,   bear upon
few feet above the present level of                       It will,

the changes at St. Michael's Mount, etc."

               From Sir Clzarles Lyell 's Amannensis to Pengell r.

     "73, Harley Street, London, VV.,_/nly 5, 1872.-- . . . Sir Charles
Lyell has just returned from a tour in France, where he has been
visiting the caves and learning much about the work being done there.
He is now about to set to work on a new edition of the Antiquity of
Man, which is required, and finds that in the ten years since the last

edition, such an immense amount has been written on the subject that

             it
                     a

                                    a

                                 if

                                                         it,

                                                                                                           .

                                                                                          is
                                                                                              Q it
it will be very difficult to review especially as he obliged to work

very"  little  at time now.     you    could  find time   to read      through                                the
       He      thinks that

Antiquity, and make notes as to the parts which seem to you to require
revision, and points on which you know good papers have been

written, would be very great help to him. . .                                                               as little

    "He will keep the book in its present form, and enlarge
as possible--if possible not at all, leaving everything that still remains
true, and making room, by omitting any doubtful statements, for any
new facts that are absolutely necessary--as, for instance, the carvings
226                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                         [CIL XIV.

and sculptures on bones which are all new since the last edition,

and of which new ones were found even when Sir Charles was in

France. . . ."

     Towards the end of July in this year (1872), Pengelly had
the great satisfaction of discovering in Kent's Hole Cavern, an

incisor tooth of the Mae/zairodus latz'dens, for which he had long
and anxiously searched. He thus announces his find at the
close of his Annual Report of the Kent's Cavern Committee,
read to the British Association at Brighton in August, 1872.

      " . . . The other specimen is a well-marked incisor of Aloe/miroa'us
'lalidens, found July 29, 187 2, with the left lower jaw of bear containing
one molar in the first or uppermost foot-level of cave-earth, having

over it the granular stalagmitic floor two to five feet thick. It answers
admirably to the following description given by MacEnery of the
incisor he found: `The internal face of the enamel is fringed with a

serrated border. This tooth is distinguished further by two tubercles
or protuberances, at the base of the enamel from which the serration

springs, and describes a pointed arch on the internal surface . . . the
body of the tooth in this specimen is not compressed, but rounded.'
He adds, ` Whether this belongs to an inferior species of U. Culm'dens,
              the incisor            to the canine of the larger  species of
                           anterior  pronounce with certainty.
              I am not     able to                                     merely
Ifor

U.
[is] simply
Cultria'ens,
the incisor, it is still interesting, as it serves to show that the serrated
character is not confined to the canines, and that the rest of the teeth,

and consequently the frame, are marked by a peculiar conformation.'

A glance at the new specimen suflices to explain why Mr. MacEnery
was uncertain respecting the canine or incisive character. Indeed the
workmen sent it to the secretary of the committee, under the belief
that it was the canine of a wolf, it being partially covered with cave
earth, and its true character was detected whilst it was being washed,

August 5, 1872.
     "MacEnery states that his incisor, which unfortunately cannot be

traced, was ` about an inch long '--the expression in all probability of
a rough guess, and not of actual measurement. The incisor from the

cavern (doubtless that  discovered and described  by MacEnery) figured
by Professor Owen in                              Fossil Mammals, etc.,'
                         his `History of British
very nearly corresponds in size with its homologue just found; the new
specimen is slightly longer in the crown, and somewhat thicker in the

fan . . . .g".

            . One of the hopes of the cavern committee, in commencing.
their researches, was that they might find some traces of Mac/zairodus.

This they have never abandoned, though year after year passed away

without success; and they cannot but express their gratitude to the

body, whose patience and liberality has enabled them to continue their
labours until this hope was realized. The greater part of the report

was written before the discovery was made; and had the work ceased
on July 28, 187 2, those who always declined to believe that Mae/zaz'roa'us
mm0w~07~m0 293%.»: mDCOM~<mU<2 .mZMQZQIH QZ< SAC»;
k \JEC ~§i~w3o ab
                                                                .\

                                             A

                                              .
                                       Q~.

           \N

               w
u
                   Q {an Q.3.

                                                    Ee\e&i          cum
1872.]               DISCOVERY OF THE MACHAIRODUS TOOTH.   227

had ever been found in Kent's Cavern would have been able to urge,

as an additional argument, the fact that the consecutive, systematic,
and careful daily labours of seven years and four months had failed to
show that their scepticism was unreasonable. This great accumulation

of negative evidence has been for ever set aside, and all doubt of Mr.
MacEnery's accuracy for ever removed, by the discovery the com
mittee have now had the pleasure to announce. They can now

announce also that Mac/mirodus latidens and man were contemporaries

in Britain; for even notwithstanding the great array of facts to the
contrary, the former should prove to have belonged to the era of the

breccia, and not to that later time represented by the cave-earth,
the two flint implements found in the breccia, to which attention was
called in previous part of the report, as well as that produced and
described at Exeter in 1869, take man back to that earlier period
also. .
       .
               ." a

                                  if,

     Mr. Harpley, in his valuable obituary notice of Pengelly,
mentions the following incident which occurred during the

reading of the Report.

"He had the pleasure of being Mr. Pengelly's companion at the
meeting of the British Association at Brighton in r872. While returning
from the railway station, whither they had gone together to see after
the safe transit of the boxes containing the bones, implements, etc.,
collected during the previous year's exploration of Kent's Cavern, Mr.
Pengelly was suddenly seized with hemorrhage in the throat; this
produced a fainting fit, from which he speedily recovered, but great
weakness of the throat succeeded. Mr. Pengelly was induced by

medical advice to abstain as much as possible from using his voice

during the meeting, and the writer undertook to read his report for
him. On reaching that portion which referred to the discovery of the
Tooth,' Mr. Pengelly, with his characteristic enthusiasm and impulsive
`
                  `
ness, seized the manuscript, and said, `Oh,                must read this at all
hazards!' and finished the reading, in spite of the pain he suffered,I
                                                     of the Savans assembled in
amid the             c"heers  and      acclamations            a
Section C.'
                                                                   I
                              Professor Owen {a Pengelly.                I

                                       " Sheen Lodge, Richmond Park, December 28, l872.

"Accept my best thanks for your additional elucidation of one
of our rarest and most interesting British fossils--Marfiairadus; and
                                       of the literature of the Oreston Caverns.
your"   valuable summary               to make some return in kind, when am back
           hope to be able
I
       I
to work in spring, for, notwithstanding the rare mildness of this

December,            have had so obstinate and severe cough that am

ordered 05 again to Alexandria."
228             WILLIAM PENGELLY.                         [CH. XV.

                CHAPTER XV.

LECTURES IN THE NORTH; RECOGNITION OF HIS WORK
                                IN KENT'S HOLE.

                                     JANUARY, 1873, TO DECEMBER, 1874.

AT the meeting of the Devonshire Association in 1873, Pengelly

read a paper entitled the "Literature of the Cavern at Ansty's
Cove, near Torquay." This cavern was examined by Mr.
MacEnery, and is well known, as it is situated in one of the
most lovely parts of Devon. The exploration had yielded some

important results. At this meeting he also read papers,

on the " Caves of Buckfastleigh and Chudleigh," and on some
"Implements found in Kent's Cavern."

     In January of this year he visited some of the large towns
in the North to fulfil lecture engagements. He thus writes
home from Hull :--

                Pengelly to his daughter Lydia.

     "fanumj/ r 5, 1873.--You will all be glad to hear that my lecture
was largely attended last night, and apparently gave great satisfaction,

Iand that am none the worse for it; still, it was a wise course to
Istipulate for a clear evening between two evening lectures.
                                                              have
written to Mr. McK. Hughes,* declining his invitation to visit him and

"I Ithe caves near St. Asaph, though the temptation is a strong one.

           am sorry to have missed Admiral Spratt, whom know pretty
well. He was captain of the ship-of-war in which the late Professor
Edward Forbes made his natural history researches in the [Egean Sea,
and through Forbes he no doubt knew our friend Dr. Day.
     I"After the lecture a good many friends dropped in at Mrs. King's ;
amongst  them   were several knew, and  a pleasant evening was spent.
                 made the acquaintance  of Mr. Staniland Wake, who,
In this  way I
though in practice as a lawyer here, frequently attends the meetings of
the Anthropological Institute in London, and occasionally reads papers

there.

                * Now Professor of Geology at Cambridge.
                                                                                wwmle'va--lzbym .».._-.--.- h,

1873--1874.]     THE SAGACITY OF DOGS.                                                    229

    I"Yesterday was very fine and mild here, and I walked about all

day, chiefly on the outer wall of the docks, where at once commanded
a view of the enormous number of ships (for this is the third port in
England), the Humber, and of the opposite or Lincolnshire coast.

IThis is likely to be a fine day also, so as soon as my letters are dis

posed of shall start for another walk, if all be well."

   A letter of Darwin's in Nature, on "Perception in the

Lower Animals," attracted Pengelly's attention. The well

authenticated stories alluded to in the following letters were
verified with much care, and were included in a paper read by
Pengelly before the Torquay Natural History Society, under
the title of "Notes on the Sagacity of the Infra-Human

Animals."

                              Pengzlly 2`0 C/zarles Darwin.

                                                       " Lamorna, Torquay, March 17, 1873.
    "Your letter on `Perception in the Lower Animals' in Nature of

the r3th has induced me to send you the enclosed slip. I trust you

will pardon this intrusion by an almost entire stranger."

    "THE HOTEL Dora--(Copy of a letter from Mr. R. Fry, formerly of
Woodgate, now of Exeter.)

                                                  " Woodgate, near Wellington, 12th mo. 8, 1859.

" There is a very pretty light tawny-coloured dog, with a fine

bushy tail, at the Queen's Hotel, Exeter, that has attracted my attention
"Iby his sagacity as well as his beauty.
          watched his contrivance a week or two ago to get out of the
coffee-room. The door is a double swinging door, opening either way,
but so stifiiy that the dog has not strength enough to put it open with
his nose. He therefore walked back several yards, and ran against the

door. This manoeuvre opened the door, but not wide enough to please

him; he therefore repeated the act, taking a longer run than the first,
and having acquired a greater impetus. This done, he opened the door

wide"r,Oanndsptehaekningpastosehdisthorwoungehr .  about  _     cleverness  of  the dog,               >

                                                           the                            he said

the dog had learnt by experience that it was unsafe to attempt to pass

through if the door was not pretty far opened, for he had twice had his
tail caught and pinched from the door falling fast before he was com
pletely through. Is not the above an exhibition of something more
than instinct?"

"THE ISLE OF WIGHT Dora--(Copy of two letters from Mr. Kirk

patrick, Banker, Honiton.)                                      " Honiton, November 19, 1868.

I"In compliance with your wish expressed by you when                                      had
Ithe pleasure of meeting you in the train on Tuesday last, will now
230            \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                   [CH. XV.

recapitulate the little anecdote I told you about the terrier dog belong

ing to my late father, Joseph Kirkpatrick, of St. Cross, Isle of Wight.
     "About the commencement of the present century, before the days

of quick coaches and railways, my father crossed from Cowes to
Southampton with his horse and terrier, and rode to London via
Basingstoke. On reaching town he put up his horse at an inn in
Westminster, and, as he was going into the city, directed the ostler

to tie up, and take care of, his dog.
     "When he returned from the city, he found the dog had broken

loose and disappeared. Exactly twenty-four hours afterwards the dog

arrived at St. Cross.

     "About a month after this my father was at Cowes with the dog,
and on meeting Captain Stevens of the Fox cutter, which plied as a
passage vessel between Cowes and Portsmouth, Stevens remarked, `Is
that your dog, sir?' `Yes,' was the reply. Stevens then added, ` He
was my passenger a few weeks ago from Portsmouth to this place'
(Cowes), `and on the vessel sailing into Cowes harbour, without waiting

Ito get into the boat, jumped overboard and swam ashore.'

     "This is the story have often heard my father relate."

"Iterrier                                                  " Honiton, November 20, 1868.

           tqouiwtehicfhorgIotrefteorretdell    you    in  my note of yesterday     that  the
                                              was    born  in the Isle of Wight,    and   had

never been out of the isle till the day my father rode to London by

Southampton."

               Charles Darwin to Pengelly.

                                              "Down, Beckenham, Kent, March 19, 1873.
     "I am much obliged to you for so kindly sending me the
Ivery curious account of the sagacity of dogs.
                                                           can believe almost

anything about them. You must forgive me for differing from you on
one point, when you call yourself `an almost entire stranger,' for I, at
least, have a lively and very pleasant remembrance of seeing you some

dozen years ago at T orquay."

    It will have been seen that Pengelly, who was always desirous

to benefit all classes of the community by the dissemination of
scientific knowledge, found some of his most interested hearers
amongst the skilled artisans of the manufacturing towns, the
shrewd Scottish people, and the miners of his native county of
Cornwall. He writes on one occasion :--

     "I have frequently been much pleased at the interest manifested by
                          fmrieinned,rs--I ionncegeloelfotgiacallargqeuemstiinones
working men--especially                                                               and discus
sions. With a geological                                                            accompanied
by the captain or chief superintendent--a well informed, thoughtful
man, who had risen from the ranks. He had shown us over the

works, and was walking with us to the neighbouring town, about four
miles distant. Our road lay through a district of considerable interest,
1873-1874.] INTEREST TAKEN IN GEOLOGY BY MINERS.                                                                                         231

displaying, amongst other things, elvan dikes traversing the stratified
rocks; whilst on the surface of the country there were several large

boulders of distant derivation. These naturally formed the subjects
of our conversatoin, and we stopped from time to time to note the

phenomena more carefully. A party of miners who had ` just come to
grass '--in other words, had come up from their work underground--left

the mine very soon after us, and were observed, when they overtook us,
to regulate their pace so as 'to keep within hearing. About two miles
from the mine the road divided--one branch leading to the town, whilst

the other and less important led to the miners' cottages. Instead, how
ever, of turning ofi" there, as they ordinarily did, they followed at our
heels; and this fact seemed to annoy the captain, as he feared they

were going to the town, and might be tempted to some public-house.

He """acA`` cNInodorhd,oionpsngeierlyy;oofbutuuthrtanerwemedenrwoaetnapdnlgiteosidtnao--gidh--teoarthwe htaotwyno?u''ve got to say 'bout elvan

courses and that ; and, as it won't take us much further, we're going on
to the next lane end--about half a mile further on.'
'" The reply was, of course, more than satisfactory: and we induced
                                    in the conversation.
them     Itoonjocien  us, and join  innkeeper in a small  hamlet,  to  get  me                                                           a guide
      "               requested an

to a point on the coast said to be of great interest, but difiicult to hit.
He very soon brought me his `brother John'----a fine stalwart young
fellow, the occupier of a small adjacent farm--who offered to be my

companion to the cliffs. The distance was about two miles, over a fine
table of moorland, and commanding an excellent view of the sea. Of

cour"se`  we beguiled the way with talk, which John thus opened--
          I've heerd that people think a good deal of the scenery hereabout,

Iespecially where we're going; and many strangers come from distant
parts, quite a good way up the country, to zee it.                 s'pose that's what
                      to go there?'
mak"es`   you wish    scenery is spoken  very highly      of, and  I quite                                                               expect to
          Well, the

be much delighted with it ; but my main object is to examine the rocks,

Ito see what they are, how they lie, and whether they contain any

fossils--as quite expect they will.'
      " ` !7
     " This last word was obviously pronounced in order to avoid saying

Inothing ; but John's puzzled look was much more significant, as it

unmistakably told me that he had no idea of what had been speaking.
During the rest of the walk out, we talked of the weather, and the state
of the crops ; and he pointed out such objects as he thought likely to
interest me. At length we found ourselves at the foot of the cliff; and
almost immediately a black patch in the bluish-grey slate presented

itself, and as I expected, proved to be a fragment of the well-known
Devonian fossil,                             known to be fish. The moment
its true character    ISteganodicg/um--now  down on my knees, with hammer

                      was disclosed, was
and """ch``` DiEWseeohsl y,y,eoInuwdzehesaeaeevt oittbuherpiisnlaagbbinloatuceoktn?eo'pxutagrhtac.c'ht ?i't ; whilst John exclaimed----
232                                 WILLIAM PEN GELLY.                                                            [CH. xv.

     """```WSOihte,lld,thowathtn'as,t'saJofahonsfos, isl,sainli,ds  and    I'm trying to get     it out.'   suppose  there
                                                                           what is a fossil?'     Do you
                                                                    it?
                                                                     I'll   try to explain.

are any dead shells, or fish bones, lying on the bottom of the sea
             ?'
yond"er`         course      there  is.'
             Of
     "`What is the state of the river, in yonder
                    '                                                                            beautiful  valley,  after

heav"y    `  rain?     very  muddy.'
             Why,
     "When there's a very heavy gale, throwing violent waves on this
          does the cliff ever give way?'
clifi',"  ` Oh yes ; there's always some part                                         or other   of it wasting.'  from  the
      "   ` Very well. Now, the mud which                                             the river
                                                                                                 brings down

country, as well as that which the waves tear from the clifi's, finds its

way to the sea, as you know, and sooner or later it settles on the bottom

of the sea, and buries up such remains of dead animals or vegetables, as
may be lying there, and forms a new sea bottom; on which, by-and-by,
other shells, and things of that nature, will find their way; and these

will be buried in their turn. Now, if this work goes on for a very long
time, the mud and sand carried into the sea will form a very thick mass ;
and if you can suppose it to become more or less hard, it will be a rock,
with remains of animals in it. And if it should from any cause get
raised above the sea, the waves would begin to break it up, little by
little, just as they break up the rock on which we are sitting; and after
awhile any person who carefully looked for them would be able to see
the shells, and fish bones, and so on, that had been buried very long
                         would call them
befo"re`,     and he     you mean to say                                   fossils.'    the way that black thing        got
             But do                                                        that that's
into"t`hYeerso;ckt?ha't's what I mean
     "    `                                                                to  say.'
     "    `
             Was    this  rock mud        once                             ?'
             Yes.'
     "    `
     "    `  Not  made when the world was made?'                                                   There are rocks of
             Oh,
                  dear no ! It was made very long since.
very great thickness in other parts of the world, made in the same way,
     "so` Wmeello,fytohuemhavaereompeuncehd
and                                                                 older, and        others much newer, than this.'
                                                                     my eyes.
                                                                                       I'll tell 'ee what 'tis--I've lived

longer this morning than in all the years of my life before. So that's
a fos"s`il,Thiesreit'?s    Was it a shell or a fish bone ? '
                          a difference of opinion about                                 it at      present.       None of

them are very perfect ; and some say it's a piece of sponge, whilst others
think"    it's part of a fish.'
          ` Well, never mind        !                               'Tis a fossil; let me look at 'en, and then I'll

try to find some.'

     " He accordingly proceeded to inspect the rocks, and in a few
                         out--
minu"te` sHecrreie'sd    one.       Here's                          another,'         and, in a short time,       detected

seve"raOl ngoooudr     specimens.                                   John   asked      me numerous  questions,     most of
                       journey back,

Ithem very          pertinent,   and some of them by no means                                       easy to answer.
                       betook   myself to the `parlour ' in order to                               greater quietude
At the inn
    1873--1874.] INTEREST OF \VORKMEN IN KENT'S CAVERN. 23$

    Ifor writing. john felt himself happier in the kitchen ; but, as the one

    room opened out of the other, frequently heard my zealous disciple
    repeat to the villagers who came in from time to time--though with
    sundry modifications and some errors--the lecture he had heard in the

              the    invariable peroration being--
              tell   'ee what 'tis--I've lived longer
    Imorn"in` gI'll;
    lived all the years of my life before. ' "            this morning                          than ever

        It was a real pleasure to Pengelly to receive letters such as

    the following from working men :--

                     W G. Cove to Pengelly.

                                                " Westminster, March 8, 1873.
         I" I suppose you will be surprised to receive a letter from me,
    but  if   have never written to       you, it is not  because  you are not                  thought
    of,       often when talking          of days long             cannot help                    feeling
         for                                              past I

    gratitude, mingled with great pleasure, for the lasting happiness you were
    so anxious and constant to impart to us young men, during the ` Young

    Men's Society,' and afterwards at the Mechanics' Institute, which existed
    Iby way of diffusing knowledge amongst us, and although
    Iteetotaller now thirty-three years, don't forget that it was                                have been a

                                                                                                to you I owe
    with thankfulness the first gleam of light on the subject when answering

    "I Ifa question at the Young Men's Society Meeting.                                      _
              think it stood thus, `15 Drunkenness curable?                                     so, what is

    the most efficient cure?' and you undertook to answer                                    I it,which you
                                                                                                        II
    did by advocating entire abstinence from intoxicating drinks, which at

    the time did not clearly see.         hope not to tire you with too lengthy
              II
                  II

                                      I
II a  letter, so will pass over a great number of pleasing circumstances in
    connection with the Young Men's Society, and Mechanics' Institute
    days, in which derived much information on many subjects from you,

    which as before stated affords me lasting pleasure; and have often
    felt and said owe more gratitude for the small amount of knowledge
      possess, to Mr. Pengelly of Torquay, than to any living man, and
    think there are a few now in Torquay who might truly say so too.

    did not intend to say so much, but having honestly stated my convictions,

       now come to the intended purport of my letter. An acquaintance
    of mine will be taking holiday this month, and wishes to go into
                    is a
                                       a
    Cornwall to see some of its beauties. Now, as you are well acquainted
with what such person should see there, thought you would be kind
                                                I

enough (as he passing through Torquay) to direct him an interesting
route thither; for the late Robert Ash and myself were favoured once
by you as to what we ought to see, when planning to go there, and
                                          think that was in the summer of r84r.
Ifgreatly pleased we were.
                     I
                              I
      convenient also think he would feel interested in knowing a little
of famous Kent's Cavern."

                     From a " Mam/latter man."

                                                          " Manchester, December 15th.

         "You will,  hope, pardon the liberty of plain uneducated
                     I

                                                                                          a

working man addressing you on this occasion, who makes no pretension
234                            \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [CH. XV.

whatever to any literary ability, neither received any education beyond
the three R's, and that in a country village school, in my school-boy

days before either the last or the present educational code was

"Iintroduced.                  to intimate            that I take a great interest in
             beg respectfully
scientific subjects, but more particularly in that of Geology, having
been employed at a mine for eight and a half years; hence geology

has been my favourite study ever since.

I "During my leisure hours, for sheer innocent amusement therein,
   have   written  paubkliicndpaorfkssix(ePseealndPasrekv)e, nws hoerre`ipnatIchhwavoerk'intdreosdcurcipetdion a
of one
          of our

Section   coIonptioeSodckientvhceeer,blaibitniemcrtluy dfoirnofgminatraloitdtnuleecwinosgnpagpyeeoorulor gpnyaarmoangertaiwnpehantfyow-oshteincvohetnethIthpecaaregmiene,
wherein                                               contents of Kent's Cavern, and

(being                                                to-night, which I intend to avail
across) in
also being  reference to your scientific

            the subject of your lecture
myself of the very great pleasure in hearing you on this exceedingly

interesting subject. . . ."

     The following notice of the second of Pengelly's lectures in
the "Science Series for the People," given at Manchester on
December I 7, 1873, contains some account of the discourse :--

its  " The lecture  "ofThWeedTniemsdeaythantighhats   was delivered   by Mr. W.   Pengelly,
     subject being                                     elapsed since  the era of  the Cave
                               It may be remembered that Mr. Pengelly
Men of Devonshire."

delivered a lecture in the last series on the same subject, consequently,
lecturer and audience met as old friends, and were clearly on the very

best"tMerrm. sPewnitghelleya'schstoytlheeris.   . ..  attractive.  It is incisive, clear, and at

                                               most
times there are touches of humour. His perfect knowledge of his

subject,  combined    with his intense earnestness,                clothed his lecture with
genuine   eloquence.                                               regretted the unusually
                        N 0 one who heard him but

speedy termination of the orthodox hour, or who did not wish to have the
time prolonged. We have heard many excellent lectures in the Hulme
Town Hall, but have never listened to a better or an abler one than

that of Wednesday night."                                                         -

     The answer to the following letter is unfortunately missing.

                      Pengelly to Edward A. Freeman.

                                                      " Lamorna, September 8, 1873.
     Iis . . . infer from passages in your paper on `The Place of
         in English                            (Marmillan's Mag, Sept.,
Exeter                History'                                               1873, p. 476),
which    I have read   with the                 greatest interest, that the   Bishoprics of

Cornwall and Devonshire were first joined in the time of Edward the

IConfessor ; that on the junction being made Exeter became the See;
and that Leofric was the first Bishop of the united dioceses.                        had

previously believed, solely on the authority of Carew (Survey of Cornwall,
pp. 81, 109, 124, ed. 1769), that the Danes having burnt the Church
1873--1874.] TESTIMONIAL FOR NVORK IN KENT'S CAVERN. 235

and Palace of the Bishop of Cornwall, at Bodmin, the See was removed
thence to St. Germans in the same county ; that in the time of Canute
the two bishoprics were joined at the instance of Livingius, Bishop
of Crediton, who became Bishop of the united dioceses, and had his
ISee at Crediton; and the See was subsequently translated to Exeter.
Without questioning your correctness, should be gratified
a                                                          without
         a
         ,trouble, you would kindly refer me to authorities on the points
               itmrauisceh1 .
                     it
                                itIn March, 1874, Pengelly was the recipient of a very handsome

                                           atestimonial in recognition of his nine years' work in Kent's Cavern.
                                                                   aThe presentation was made by Professor Phillips, who most
kindly took a special journey from Oxford to Torquay for the
                                                             it
occasion. Professor Phillips opened the proceedings with an
                                                                                                         aeloquent scientific address. He said--
                                                                                                  if,
"The purpose of their meeting was to commemorate the successful
                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                 a,
progress of a great geological work which had been undertaken in-this
neighbourhood at the suggestion of the British Association for the
advancement of Science, and especially of the Geological Section of
that body, namely, the excavation of Kent's Cavern. They had a
second duty, to express--on the part of the Geological section of the
British Association, and very many members of the Geological Society,
and of every member of the committee appointed by the Association to
direct the operations in Kent's Cavern--their affectionate admiration and

gratitude for the great amount of labour, long continued and of highly
scientific character, that has been performed at the request of the

Association by one of their townsmen, Mr. Pengelly. A few words
only were required to place them in possession of some of the reasons
why the geologists of this country had felt so great an interest in the
excavation of Kent's Cavern, and in having the work directed with the
extraordinary degree of minute and careful attention which had charac_
terized the proceedings. Mr. Pengelly had not only shown rare careful
ness and scrupulosity in collecting and preserving interesting specimens
but he had literally inspected and examined the work of exploration
                         large portion of most precious time to
from day to day, giving

examining the stuff as was dug up, taking home the fossils, washing
and labelling them, putting them in catalogue, and writing notices
respecting them. Mr. Pengelly had, in fact, turned his own residence
into substitute for Kent's Cavern, and his house must be full of bones.
Out of regard for him, however, he hoped Torquay would be able to
preserve very fine collection, the largest and most perfect, of these
remains, and that would be for a long time the principal feature of
the Museum of the Natural History Society. In undertaking such

duty, however, should be remembered that was not sufficient merely

to place these bones in drawers and to say they were safe there;

what was wanted for them was that they should be so placed as to
instruct all who had sufficient interest in the history of mankind and in

the nature and extent of these discoveries. These remains afforded
236  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [Cl-1. XV.

evidence which carried them back to the first occupation of this country,
to a period much earlier than was generally supposed, when the reindeer
and early races of deer lived with the elephant. For the minute
examination of which these discoveries were the result they were
especially indebted to the extraordinary scientific acumen and untiring
zeal of Mr. Pengelly, and they should be performing a great act of
injustice, now that the Geological Section of the British Association
was coming near to the end of its most prosperous work in connec

tion with Kent's Cavern, if they were simply to accept the results and
give Mr. Pengelly an ordinary expression of thanks. He thought they

should take the opportunity now afforded them to express to Mr.
Pengelly, in the presence of his personal friends in his own town,
amongst those who knew his personal worth and were aware of his high
scientific attainments, to offer him publicly an expression of the
affectionate regard and the profound respect entertained for him by
persons in this country who devoted themselves to geological inquiry
of a high order, and by all persons in the least degree interested in the
most important historical inquiry which related to the occupation of
the northern parts of Europe by races of inferiorly educated men.

    Mr. J. E. Lee (the treasurer of the testimonial fund), said--

     "Though be entertained a dislike generally to testimonials, yet
there were exceptions to every rule; and, if there was an exception
which it was proper to make to a rule, it was in the present case of Mr.
Pengelly. He had no hesitation in saying that there was no professional
man living who had worked harder and more freely, and more
successfully, without the slightest idea of remuneration, than Mr.
Pengelly. N 0 one who knew Torquay could deny that if they wanted
to meet Mr. Pengelly at a certain hour they had only to put themselves
on the Babbacombe Road between four and five o'clock in the after
noon, and Mr. Pengelly would be sure to be met either going to or
returning from Kent's Cavern."

    At the proposal of Mr. Guyer, Mr. Pengelly was also to be

presented with an illuminated parchment, containing the names
of the subscribers, and setting forth the object of the testimonial
as follows :--

     " The nndermentioned members of the British Association and
other friends beg to present to Wm. Pengelly, Esq., F.R.S., etc.,'etc.,
this testimonial in recognition of his long and valued services to science
in general and more especially for the exploration of Kent's Cavern,
Torquay. March 17, 1874."

     Mr. Vivian, in asking Professor Phillips to make the presen
tation, expressed his indebtedness to Mr. Pengelly for the amount
of geological teaching he had received from him.

     Professor Phillips then presented the testimonial to Mr.
Pengelly.
1873-1874J      APPRECIATION OF THE TESTIMONIAL.                                               237

     " As a mark of the high appreciation of his services by the Geological
Section in particular, and the members of the British Association very
generally, and every member of the Kent's Cavern Committee, of which
he was the secretary. In making the presentation, he would only add
these words in regard to Mr. Pengelly--

                                                                    " . . . cut'
                        Gratia, fama, valetudo contingat abunde,
                   Et mundus victus, non deficiente crumena."

     The professor then handed to Mr. Pengelly the illuminated

address and a cheque.

     The recipient acknowledged the honour paid him in a charac
teristic speech, beginning in the playful and humorous style for
which he was so well known. He went on to say that--

     " He had done this work in connection with Kent's Cavern simply
because he liked it. He was, however, utterly unable to give expression
to the gratification which he felt at their kindness, and the kindness of
his friends throughout the country generally, unless he could coin his
heart into words, which was beyond him. It had been very pleasant to
him to do the work in Kent's Cavern day by day for now nearly nine
years, it having                on March                      2i8f,th1e86m5o. neyHewehraed
to husband the    been begun    disposal as                                                     endeavoured
                  means at his
                                                                                               his own. He
had had the pleasure of spending five hours a day, taking one day
with another, for the past nine years on Kent's Cavern work; and,
whilst his work in the Cavern had been considerable, that at home had

often carried him into the morning hours. But he had experienced
intense pleasure in it; and he could assure them that, on his finding a
Mac/zairodus latidens, after seven years and a half exploration, the
discovery of that one tooth, in his opinion, was worth all the money that
had been spent in the exploration of the Cavern. It was particularly
pleasurable for him to receive this testimonial at the hands of Professor
Phillips, for he could not forget that he represented geologically the
great University of Oxford, he being the Professor of Geology in that
university, and that to the reading of one of Professor Phillips' works he
owed more of his geological knowledge than to any other man. It was
also pleasurable, to find in  the list of                                                       member of the
Kent's Cavern Exploration     Committee                    ;  s*ubaslscoribtheersnaemveersy    of the president

of the Geological Society and of the two presidents before him, and
those of both professors of geology at the universities of Oxford and

Cambridge, and friends whose names he hardly expected to have seen
there, but which gave him a great deal of pleasure. Reference had
been made to the possible inconvenience of his having to keep the
fossils in his own house. He had only 6320 boxes of bones there.
He hoped to devote a portion of the money presented to him in build
ing an additional room in which he might put the large private collection

* The Committee now consisted                     of the   .fRol.loSw.;ingJohmn emEvbaenrss:,  Sir Charles Lyell,
Barn, F .R.S.;  GSeirorgjoehnBusLhu,bbFo.cRk.,S.  Bart, F                                      F.R.S. ; Edward
Vivian, M.A. ;                                    ; William Boyd Dawkins,                      F.R.S. ; William
Ayshford Sanford, F.G.S.; John Edward Lee, F.G.S. ; and W. Pengelly.
238          WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [CH. XV.

of Devonshire fossils he had collected, so as to enable his friends to
study them. He thanked Mr. Lee for the kindness and delicacy he had
displayed in the matter. He did not wish for one moment to speak
slightingly of the pecuniary value of the testimonial, but let it be under
stood, once for all, that their appreciation of his services, such as they
had been, was the thing which he valued chiefly in this matter. . . ."

    A few days later the following article appeared in connection

with the Testimonial :--

     " There are those who receive testimonials and those who deserve
testimonials. The world is full of one class, whilst only a comparative
few belong to the other. Mr. Pengelly is one of the few. The whole
geological world is indebted to him for the results which have attended
his careful and energetic exploration of Kent's Cavern, and the country
up and down is under compliment to him for his contributions to
science, whilst Torquay owes a double meed of gratitude to him for his
lucid exposition of scientific and social truths during a generation, and
for lending it the distinction of his name. Geologists generally have
been afforded the opportunity of acknowledging their obligations to and
appreciation of Mr. Pengelly by permission to subscribe to a testimonial ;
but the Torquay townsfolk, and particularly those who years ago
derived advantage from Mr. Pengelly's lectures, and to whom testimonial
circulars would not be sent, have a right to complain that sufiicient
publicity was not given to an intended public compliment. By confining
the knowledge of the Committee's intentions to those who were likely
to give large sums, the very appearance, that of paying in coin rather
than in expression of feeling, which Mr. Pengelly, as well as the Com
mittee, would wish to avoid, was given to the testimonial. The six
pences of the working men, who have derived advantage from Mr.
Pengelly's private and public instruction, would be more acceptable to
him than the pounds of more wealthy subscribers contributed as a
reward. These, and others who knew nothing of the testimonial, have
a right to complain at the somewhat exclusive character of the

compliment."

     The kindly feeling shown in this paragraph calls for no
comment. It
             trust, unnecessary to say that Pengelly was
             iIs,

                                 a

                                                                                                                                                     M
altogether unaware of the manner in which the funds of the

testimonial had been raised. Most highly would he have valued
a tribute of esteem from the working men of Torquay, whose

appreciation of his labours was most grateful to him. To have
seen their signatures in the list of subscribers, would have

been to him quite as great pleasure as the recognition of names

so illustrious in different branches of science as those of Sir
Charles Lyell, Sir John Lubbock, Charles Darwin, Sir William
Armstrong, and Sir john Hawkshaw, or others so eminent in the

social world, as the Dukes of Argyll, Devonshire, and Somerset,
1873 -1874.]                 LYELL'S " STUDENT'S ELEMENTS."                                                           239

the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, and Sir Wm. Tite, then in his last
illness. The following letter from an intimate friend of the

eminent architect, bears touching testimony to his constant
attachment to Pengelly :--

I" In the Torquay paper, which                                " March 20, [874.
                                         receive weekly, I have just read
a very pleasant column, on which you must please let me congratu

late you very sincerely ! It is a most delightful thing to see an act of

justice and kindness done, and especially so when one has the added
Isatisfaction of knowing the recipient.
                                         I can tell you, will contribute                                              to
     " am sure one little circumstance
your appreciation of the Testimonial. The last time poor Sir William
ever signed his name, was to the cheque by which he paid his tribute to
the Testimonial. This was two days after his final illness had assailed
him, and was the closing act of business and of kindness ! After

dictating a letter concerning this matter he never again asked for letters,
or made the least effort to transact business of any sort."

     Criticisms on scientific work and information as to the

scientific mode of investigating caves were frequently solicited

from, and always most cordially given, by Pengelly. Readers

of "The Life of Sir Charles Lyell" will call to mind an appeal

made to Pengelly by that great geologist, concerning the ex
ploration of caverns in Borneo, which came within the jurisdiction
of Pengelly's friend, the Rajah Brooke, whose good ofiices Sir
Charles was anxious to enlist. " No one," he writes, "could
better explain, than you, the interest of such an inquiry."

                             [engelg'y to Sir Charles Lyell.

" What a busy man you are!           I "Torquay, March 22, 1874..
                                        had no idea that a second edition
of your `Student's Elements' was in the press, and lo! the postman
hands me a presentation copy of the said new edition. Be so good
as to accept my warm thanks for and the assurance that
` it                                                                                                                  most

     is

                     :

                            is

                                            `

                                                             it,

                                           I

                                                                           is,
                                                                                              it

                                                                                                               is is
--gra--tifypinugblisthoedbe  thus remembered by you. Have you       seen a letter by
this: He                     for March on the Eoozarm Canadense? .
                                                                    . . In substance
                             silent on the question of the mineral or organic
character of Eoozoon, declines to give an opinion on the mineral
hypothesis by King and Co., but states that the structure
certainly not that of Foraminifera.                                                                                   most

                                         trust you will see the article.
Pardon my calling your attention to what in all probability, an error
Tin the useful diagramatic Table of British Fossils at the end of your new

edition. In the Group n'lah'm, page 630, the families `P/zaeopia'ee,'
  C/zeirudz'dre,' and Cyp/zuyidre' are represented as not extending into
the Devonshire formation, whereas in Salter's monograph, Pal. Soa,
Part I., the following species occur in the Devonians of Devon and
Cornwall (r) Pfiaeop: granulates, (2) P12. law's, (3) Pk. eryplaptop/zaz`i/zur,
240                WILLIAM PENGELLY.                               [CI-I. XV.

(4) Ph. latzfrons, (5) .Ph. perm'elatus, and (6) Chez'roeurus arlieulatus.
Indeed your text and figure of Ph. latzfrons, page 446, establish the
extension of                      When poor Salter was preparing
               the Phaeopidre.   Devonshire Trilobites from Devon                  his
monograph, I   sent him all my                                                    and
ICornwall, and when they came back, found them all named by him,
Iand they are still in my cabinet, with his handwriting on the tablets.
have all the species named above, with the exception of the third
only, and in addition a specimen of eyphaspis, but without a specific
name attached, found in the middle Devonian limestone of Newton
Bushel. This specimen has not been described, but it establishes the
extension of the Cyphaspidae into middle Devonian times."

                  Profl'ssorA. Newton, F.R.S., to Pengelly.
                                 " Magdalene College, Cambridge, May 9, 1874.

"Will you kindly inform me whether .you have any work going on
now in Kent's Cavern or elsewhere? My object in asking is that a
young friend of mine has just been selected as one of the naturalists to
the Rodriguez Transit Expedition, and in that island are some very
Iinteresting caves which will have to be explored by him. Consequently

  should like him to see, if possible, your admirable method in practice,
for, though he has had some experience in cave-hunting, it would be
well for him to be acquainted with all the latest improvements--the
more so since he will have only half-savages to dig for him instead of

intelligent men.
                if there is nothing
     "Perhaps                           going on   with you, you   msoayI  know
where people   may be at work in       the proper                          would
                                                   manner, and if

ask you kindly to  use your good ofiices so  thIatdomn'yt  friend may be able
to see and avail   himself of the process.                 yet know when he
Iwill have to leave England, but most likely not till July or August.

     " have just found a grand prize in a magnificent Bos pringming
almost perfect, dug up near this place within the last few weeks."

     Mr. Slater, the friend alluded to in Professor Newton's letter,
paid a short visit to Torquay, when he daily took advantage of
the opportunity of studying cave exploration as exemplified in
Kent's Cavern under Pengelly's guidance and instruction.

     In several letters subsequently received from Mr. Slater he

expressed his indebtedness for the valuable aid given him, as

well as for the hearty kindness with which he had been received.
     The following letter from Mr. Froude relates to the chair

manship of a local Scientific Society, which his friend was
anxious he should undertake :--

                   VV. Froude to Pengelq'y.

                                       " Chelston Cross,  Torquay, July 2, 1874.

                                       a way you have     !
                                       friends, who
I I"                                                       know are seeking

"
     What a    man you are    :  what
        hate    to disoblige     kind
                                                                                  to
express their goodwill towards me, and appreciation of me, in making the
1873--1874.] w. FROUDE'S DIFFIDENCE AS PRESIDENT.                                                    241

Irequest you have conveyed to ,me. And if I only could know for
certain  that     should                be dead by  the   time at which            the  assent would
have to  take                         would assent  most   cordially.
               effect, I
" But if a man at sixty-four does not know the duties he is unfit,
Ifor he is                                                                     know so well that
I am not                                                                       the chair to which
         a fool, and is fit for little; and               really,

         the right man in the right place if              I sit in
Iyou invite me, that so far as the fitness of things is concerned should
I                    in accepting the invitation.                              know very well how
                it,be courting                            I
kindly you value me, avmaluing me in many ways, and especially notI
knowing of some of my particular defects.
     " grant, or rather am vain enough to assert, that know great
                                      II a a I                                     is I    is
deal about some particular subjects, and have an intelligent apprehen
sion of the elementary ideas belonging to other subjects.!                              a      Ia
"Yet in dealing with one of the subjects understand best, to put
together into readable, still more into a preachable form, an expositionI
               Ia
of the things want to say'and know are worth saying,                                       to me            a

burden and an anxiety which wears and tears me. . .                            .

     " You who have such astonishing power of work, and do your work
so clean and well out of hand, will hardly understand the difficulty am

trying to describe.                                 man of science                         man full of
                                                    I iIf a
    "My brother, who though not                          I
philosophical ideas, has the readiness of mind and pen which make his
task easy for him; and there are many men who without being philo           a

sophers, as he have general acquaintance with science and facility
of composition, that enables them to get through the work both inI                         a
        if I                                                                                  a
teres"tiInfg, lytheann,dyoinustcruacntivgeelty.me     should be both failure        and bore.
                     if,                           off, without my appearing       a  graceless cur
                                 is,
mudgeon for refusing                  proposal which      know has been meant so
                                                          am putting you ina disagreeable
kindly, hope you will do so. But
dilemma by being reported as recusant, will forego my objection for
                                                                                           it

                                                                                                  ;
   am sure after what have                         said, you desire me         to  Iafcycoeuptc, an  will be
for some reason which could                        not rightly disregard.                            get me

off, do; you can't, don't "

     During this summer, whilst his wife went with her daughters
to spend the holidays from school at Budleigh Salterton, Pengelly
visited Ireland, and attended the meeting of the British Asso
ciation at Belfast, returning directly after the dispersion of the

gathering to Devonshire.

                                      Pengelly to lzis yazmgest c/zz'ld Hester.

                                      II," Lamorna, Torquay, before breakfast, September             1874.

" am beginning this letter to you with the present intention of
aI

        it
            a

                         I
sending        off not to-day, but to-morrow. just after taking my tea

yesterday, note came from the Baroness," stating that they were to

have small party, and as had been obliged to refuse the dinner,

                                      " Burdett-Coutts.

                                                                                           R
242                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                        [CIL XV.

asking me to drop in, not late. I accordingly went, and found the
                      well filled with ladies, including Lady  Erskine,
drawing-room pretty                                            came in
Mrs. Fortescue, Miss   Dyott, and many others. In due time
March Phillips, Vivian, Dr. Ramsay, Sir George Macgregor, Mr.
Fortescue and others. . . . Your very nicely written letter of yesterday
has arrived. I am glad to find you are all enjoying your walks, games,

Iand blackberries (I mustn't forget them), and glad too that you saw so
much of the regatta.            am getting on with `Romola,' which seems
a sad story. The kitten came back on Tuesday evening, and seems to
have had proper care. She is frisking about at this moment as madly

as ever. . . .

     "The ` snake' "" has not been used, it being utterly unnecessary, as
there has been rain every day this week so far, and in no limited

Iamount.

     "There,
                   now I think  have disposed of your letter. Saturday,

September 12th. Lydia's letter has come to-day; be so good as to
thank her for for me, and, you can trust me for so much, you may
         .I

                     it,
                             it
                                     is

                                          it,

                                    if

                                        I
give her a kiss. Tell her that no respectable female will be able to
get into the new Chamber in Kent's Hole until at least three months'
work has been spent on          and that am not sure that so much will

ever be done, for we are finding nothing now to encourage us to do

so. . .          go into the garden nearly every day and pick and eat two

or three pears, but             so fearfully wet among the bushes, that we

cannot pick up the fallen fruit."

     How much Pengelly's time, ever burdened with serious work,

was encroached upon by strangers and casual acquaintance
wishing to visit the cavern under his guidance, the following
letter, selected from many of a similar character, will testify.

                        Pengelly t0 lzis Wife.

     "Lamorna, Torquay, September 18, 1874.--I have just reached
home from the Cavern, where had to act guide to Miss           her
aunt and two other relatives, and this has occupied more of my timeIa Ia
                                          II I
than  it         pleasant to think of, though must say the dear old maidsT
were all very nice, and Missis
               it                  kindly allowed the idea to peep out               ,
that they were doing me kindness to visit my cavern under my
guidance. All this to tell you that have but little time, and that            a if
you must put up with a short letter.           yesterday had call from Mr.

W of Liverpool, whom have seen at the Brit. Assoc. Meeting,
but did not know. He was at Belfast, but not being able to get to
hear my `Lm`ure on Kent's Cavern,' he had called to ask where,

anywhere, had been or was to be printed; he being much interested
in Cavern researches and kindred topics.        told him the Report was
                                      it

                                          I
printed in extenso in this week's Directory, and would be in large
abstract in Naz'ure, probably of this week. On which he said,

Mrture, what Nature? And then                  came out that this man,

                     * His child's name for the water-hose.
1873-1874.] HOW A BUSY MAN'S TIME 1s ENCROACHED ON. 243

Iresident in Liverpool, interested in cavern researches, and blush to
                        was ignorant of        serial called Nature.   At the
add, a  Cornishman,  I                   the    Halifax, waiting for  me with
Cavern   yesterday,     found two men    from

a letter of introduction from Mr. D. of Halifax.   Tahmfetaeyr,nfuoInonntyooItkhifnotghuenmdis

that I know no Mr. D. of Halifax. Be this as it

into the Cavern, and they were well pleased. This
              waiting at the Cavern for me; but handed them over
three ladies*
                    (P)

                                                      I
to Smerdon,"t much to his, and perhaps not to their satisfaction. On
my return C. Parker waylaid me, and in the most pathetic manner

besought me to go home to tea with him."

         The chief workman who was allowed to take visitors over that part of the Cavern
not in course of exploration.
244  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [CH- xvr.

                          CHAPTER XVI.

                                      LOSS OF FRIENDS.

                                     JANUARY, 1875, TO SEPTEMBER, 1878.

A VARIETY of untoward circumstances and events combined to

make the opening of the year 1875 a period of singular dis
comfort, anxiety, and depression for Pengelly. The season was
one of extreme severity, and being far from robust in health at
the time, he suffered greatly from the cold in the fulfilment of

his engagements to lecture at Gloucester and other towns ; while
sickness in his own household made it difficult for him to leave

home, and caused him great uneasiness during his absence. In
January he was much affected by the intelligence of the death
of his valued friend Canon Kingsley, whose warm-hearted en
thusiasm in the cause of popular education, and the deep interest
he took in furthering the well-being of the working-classes, had
greatly endeared him to Pengelly as a kindred spirit and fellow
worker in the cause he had so constantly at heart. This severe
blow was followed by another that he felt no less keenly. As
his human sympathies were engaged by the noble character of
Canon Kingsley, it may be readily understood how his scientific

life and studies had been intertwined and bound up with the
work of the great geologist Sir Charles Lyell, his intimate friend
and constant correspondent, whose death occurred in February
of this year. Though he had been in failing health since the
decease of Lady Lyell, in 1873, his last illness and death came
as a sudden shock, and had an effect on Pengelly which even his
buoyant nature did not enable him to recover from for a con
siderable period. The void which his death caused in the world
of science was not greater than that which it left in the heart of
his friend.

     In February, 1877, Pengelly was the second recipient of the
recently established Lyell Fund, which was presented to him
1875--1878.]         RECEIVES THE LYELL FUND.                                                  245

--as the President of the Geological Society remarked--by the
unanimous wish of the Council, " as evidence of his untiring

devotion to the great task of extending scientific knowledge
relating to the Antiquity of Man. . . ." In the spring he had
the pleasure of welcoming home, on long leave, his son Alfred,

who was now a Deputy Commissioner in the Forest Department
of the Indian Civil Service.

     Pengelly had been a member of the " Boulder " Committee of
the British Association for some years, and numerous letters re
lating to the work for the furtherance of which it was appointed,

are found among his papers. It was a subject that had special

attractions for him.

     In a letter written during the previous year he thus describes
the origin and labours of the Committee :----

Penger to the Editor of tile Western Morning News.

" . . . The British Association first appointed a Boulder Committee
in 1871, at the instance of D. Milne Hume, Esq., whose labours in

connection with the Scotch boulders are well known; and it has been

annually re-appointed. No report was made in 1872, but one, read
at Bradford in       187 3, will appear in the annual volume              of
which it may         be presumed will shortly be published.                   the Association,

                                                                              It may be well
to state, in order to prevent a loss of labour, that the Report in 1873,
contains a description of the famous granite boulder on the northern
shore of Barnstaple Bay, and arrangements have been made for including
in the Report for    H1e8a74thfiaenldacacnodunttheofadtjhaecenntumdeirsotruiscts.boulIdtersis  in the
`Head' of Bovey                                                                                hoped
that no one will describe any specimens from mere hearsay, as a careful

inspection alone can secure the accuracy essential to science. 1 shall

be happy to send copies of the printed questions on which the Com
mittee are desirous of information to any one wishing to have them, or
they can be obtained from the Rev. H. W. Crosskey, F.G.S., Hon.

Sec." BItouilsdetor   Committee.             the  boulders  on  Dartmoor  will  not  be utterly
                     be hoped that
neglected, even though they may be of the granite of the district, partly
because Dr. Otto Torell of Lund, an eminent authority on the question,
has expressed the opinion, after a careful personal study of the district
with G. W. Ormerod, Esq., F.G.S., that glacial Moraines exist on the
Moor; and also because the Committee are desirous of recording all

legen" dOsbsaenrdvesrsupeinrtsetintdioinnsg  connected with any particular boulders.
                                             to assist the Committee will do well to study

the first report of the Committee on Boulders appointed by the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, drawn up by D. M. Hume, Esq., and published
in the Proeeeding: of the Society, vol. vii., 1871--2."

The following letter from the Secretary of the Committee,
                                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                                            '        [Cm XVI.

246

the late Rev. H. W. Crosskey, refers to a contribution to the
Report for 1875.

                     Rev. If. W. C70."qu I0 Pengelly.

                                                                 " Birmingham, July 14, 1875,

   "I am delighted to return the `Hail fellow, well met' involved

in dispensing with `Rev.' and `Mr.' and `Sir.' Many thanks--the
Report will do admirably--please let the Boulder Committee have the
privilege of printing it--and not the Devonshire Association. It is

precisely what is wanted for each district."

     In response to a request from Professor Rolleston, Pengelly

read a paper before the Anthropological Section of the British

Association, which met at Bristol, in 187 5.                                                                   '

                               Prqfessor Roller/0n to Pengelly.

                                                                                                      " Oxford, July 20, I875.

   I" .                                            the Anthropological                                             Section of the

Bristol                                             and I write to ask                                            if you can give
          . . have to preside over
          British Association meeting,

us something out of your ample stores. Mr. John Evans, who has just
Ibaedevnices, taIyindgo  with  me, encouraged me to ask                                               you,     and, acting upon this
                         so.   Anything which you can                                                 give      we shall be glad of,

and     do  Inomt apyressauymtehatto   suggest     any                                             particular  line to you.   Except
so far  as                            probably     we                                              shall have  some foreign   anthro
pologists at the meeting, and that they might be disappointed if they
did not get some aim: was discourse from you on the points with which

they have learnt from print to connect your name."

                         Paige/{y to Prqfessor Rolleston, ERS.

                                                                                                 " Lamorna, Torquay, July 2!, I875.

    "The    oIfnlyyosuubcjeacret  on  which     I  have any                                           special  knowledge is Kent's
                                  to  have         summary                                            of all   that has been done
Cavern.                                         a

there, under             some such title as  `  The Anthropological                                                (PArchaeological)
Discoveries              in Kent's Cavern,                                                                        be most happy to
                                                Devonshire,' I shall
          with your flattering request, if all be well.
Icom"ply                                                                                                          Kent's      Cavern
          purpose reading the Eleventh Report of the
ICommittee to the Geological Section, which no doubt will be fixed for

the orthodox time of eleven o'clock, Friday, August 27, and would
Irather not encounter another Section the same day, as my throat is not
very strong.                  therefore suggest Monday, the                                           30th.
                         good as to favour me with a line                                             just to     say,  rst,  Whether
     "Be so

Iwyohuat""a32Iprnphddra,o,vvWeWe hhttaoehttehsaaetymro. poiuycnoutanodpfrettihfmeeretitythloeau.t    should speak, or write and  read,
                                                                                                 would wish me to occupy."

                                                                                                   :
1875--!878.] DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION AT TORRINGTON.                                       247

                     H'ofersor Rollertolz t0 Pengelly.

                                                       " Oxford, Thursday, July, I875.

" I have been away from Oxford exploring, with Colonel Lane
Fox, the flint mines which the early British excavated at Cissbury as
             did at

            I hope
Iother people

answered, as
                      Spienne. Otherwise your note would                  have been
                     you will have imagined, before this.
"As regards your questions, would say in short, that we shall be
glad of anything you will give, with whatever title, and whether written

Ior spoken, and the longer the better. However, to answer in detail,
should think the title would be `Anthropological (rather than Archaeolo

Igical) Discoveries in Kent's Cavern.'

    "As to reading the MS., should think if you had a short abstract

such as would do for the volume, and gave us air/a were the details, that
would be as well for all parties.

    "As to time to be occupied, you could give us forty minutes, if that

is not too much."

     Before going to the meeting, Pengelly attended the Devon

shire Association at Torrington, and afterwards joined his wife
in a family gathering at themarriage of one of her nieces,
Mrs. Burgess.

                         Pengeléy to his Wife.

                                                       " Lamorna, July 31, 1875.

    " Here I am, havingjust breakfasted and read your letter. We have

been lucky indeed in the weather. . . . Now for a brief account of our

Imeeting at Torrington. The President's address was admirable.

enclose a copy. The next day the reading of the papers was well
attended, the only drawback was that the President was a little too in
dulgent in the precious  matter of time.
nearly eighty sat down.                                 At six our dinner began, when
                           I had my old                Toast of `The New Members.'
It was over by nine, when we went to the Concert of which you know

already. C. Fowler played charmingly. Thursday the papers as before.
The meeting over, about thirty of us went ofi' to see Wear Gifford Hall

and Frithelstock Priory. It was a very pleasant drive, but the day was

Itoo far done for us to see much of the Priory ruins. Friday morning
went to the Vicarage to breakfast, where, besides Mr. and Mrs. Buckland
                                                        the half brother  of the famous
(the vicar  aIndmeVticoaurresPsre),sitdheentforamnedr  some others, and   `the fun grew  Dr.
Buckland,                                                                                fast

and furious.' Happily there was a little ballast, as every now and then
the point of a joke had to be shown to Mr. G----- and sometimes he
got a faint view of it. About one o'clock Mr. Wren, owner of some
clay pits, drove in from his place, in his break and four, and drove a
lot of us out to his pits about five miles off. We got back just in time

to get a chop and catch the train to Exeter, and the meeting at Torring
ton began to fade away to join its older brothers somewhere in the

mighty past. . . ."
248                   WILLIAM PENGELLY. _                         [CH. XVI.

     Amongst those in search of information about the discoveries
made in Devonshire caverns were Dr. Dawson, F.R.S.,* and Mr.

G. H. Kinahan.

                  Pengelly to Dr. Dawson, 111.14., F.R.S.*

                                "Lamorna, Torquay, January 3, 1876.

     "First let me wish you in British fashion a `Happy New Year,'
"Iand then thank you for your letters of 7th and 13th ult.
          have not the least doubt that the `cave-earth' was introduced
in small instalments, at very protracted intervals by a small stream,
which heavy rains occasionally swelled, but which ordinarily flowed
tranquilly through the valley immediately in front of, and but little

below the cavern entrances, instead of, as now, about seventy feet

below them.

   "I incline to the opinion that the `breccia' is at least of inter
Iglacial age, but more probably preglacial; though have not been
able to detect any signs of ice action.
     "Some of the bears' bones and implements in it may have been

rolled, but probably not many of either series. The bear's leg, of
Iwhich you have heard, was found in Brixham, not Kent's Cavern.

There is much error afloat concerning it. By this post send for your
kind acceptance a few of my papers, which will perhaps answer all
I I Iyour questions better than can in a letter.
                                               need not say that
Ishall have

I am sure
     great         pleasure in   giving any  further information       can, as
     that         though we     may differ,  we both desire to    know and

teach the truth.

     " P. S.--Though we have broken all the pieces of stalagmite embedded
in the breccia, we have found no organic remains in them. W.P."

     HPengelb/ to G.  Kinahan, Geologieal Survey, Woxford, Ireland.

I "Lamorna,/anuary 21, 1876.---In reply to yours of the 9th inst.

   have to state that we find in Kent's Hole skulls of sheep in the
`Black Mould,' or uppermost deposit only--some of them horned, and
some hornless, but none'of them having more than two horns to the
Ibest of my recollection.
                           Sheep and goats are easily confounded with
one another, believe."

     This summer Pengelly visited Scotland again, and, whilst

there, attended the British Association Meeting at Glasgow.
He had lectured in Scotland in December, 1875, and did so

again in the early part of 1877 at Glasgow and Dundee.

     Nowhere were his lectures and papers more warmly re
ceived than North of the Tweed. The Duke of Argyll, writing
"Ito him in 1876, says,
                           have never heard a clearer lecturer, nor

one with so much enthusiasm for his subject."

     * Principal of McGill College, Montreal, Canada; now Sir William Dawson.
1875--1878.]  BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW.                  249

                        Pengelly to lzis Wife.

    "Glasgow, September 11, 1876.--- . . . On Saturday, Harkness
Idined with my host and hostess, and we spent a bright, merry evening,

which every .one seemed to enjoy. On Sunday went to hear the
sermon announced in the enclosed, which was- simply magnificent,
Ithough it had one or two errors in it. The sight of fully four thousand

people (as judge) hanging on the lips of one man, was a grand one
(I was on the platform and could command the whole); and the
Isinging--congregational as well as trained--was truly superb, and made
me vibrate from top to toe.   then rambled about, took a light dinner,
and at 6.30 found myself in a ` Hall of Free Thought,' of the Holyoake
Istamp and probably foundation. There were one hundred and fifty

people present (as judge). A good discourse--not cultivated--was
Idelivered, though it is not what is called Christian, and there were

some curious scenes of which may tell you. . . ."

                   Pengelly to lzis daughter Lydia.

     " Glasgow, fanuary 25, 1877.--Thank you heaps upon heaps of
times for your nice letter. . . . And now for the events in my history

Isince wrote yesterday. We duly dined at Sir James Watson's, where
I met Sir William Thomson,* Dr. Allen Thomson, and several other
folk. The gathering was a most pleasant one. The lecture audience

was much larger than that last year, and my reception very flattering.
It would have done your heart good to have heard some of the laughs.
Myean
     is
It
                  .
                   .a

                      ." is

                            II
                                                                                is,

                                                                                            if
    new diagram, the printed one, was, and        an undoubted success.
    not bit too large.                          feel jubilant as the back
                             am beginning to

    my work   broken, and shall soon be speeding southwards, all

    well.

     Towards the close of the year 1876, Pengelly paid a visit tois
Sir Samuel Baker.
                                                        .
                               Mrs. Pengelly to her Sister. a

     "Lamorna, Torquay, Detemoer 25, 1876.-- . . William returnedis`."
yesterday from his visit to Sir Samuel Baker, which he has greatlya.
enjoyed. The Duke of Somerset, who lives near Sir Samuel, came in.a
on Sunday with the duchess. William says she still most charming.a
woman. She was Sheridan, and sister of Mrs. Norton whom we
met when she was in Torquay. Sandford Orleigh, the Bakers' house,

    full of curiosities; they have brought home numbers of heads, and
horns, and skins of animals shot by himself. He told William that
his tale for boys, The Castaways,' brings him in quite little fortune.
Unfortunately Mr. Froude, who had been asked, with the duke, to meet
William, could not come. . .

                   Mrs. Pengelly to lzer Sister.

    " Torquay, April 1877.--5,             We dined lately with the Hunts

to meet Lord and Lady Rayleigh. They were on their way home

                        * Now Lord Kelvin.
250                                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                    [CH. XVI.

from Madeira. Mr. Froude was there, and he and Lord Rayleigh

I(who was Senior Wrangler) would talk mathematics. Lord Rayleigh

took me in to dinner, and found his conversation very interesting.
We greatly enjoyed our evening. Both he and his wife are much
occupied in scientific questions. She as expect you know, niece
of the Marquis of Salisbury.
                                      .
                                         .
                                              ."

                                                           is,

                                                     I

                                                                                                            a

     In April, 1877, Pengelly's friend and fellow-worker at the
Museum, the Rev. T. R. R. Stebbing,* who had for some years
resided at Torquay, left that place for Tunbridge Wells, and his

congenial companionship was much missed by him.

                                 271:: Rev. `T. R. R. Stabbing to Pengele

                                      " Tunbridge Wells, May 28, 1877.

     "We are now definitely settled here. For long time we had
                                                         a
                                                               a
   sort of vague feeling that we were only here on visit, and that
when the holidays were over we should return to the Warberry Hill,
a
          is

               is

                              .
and this feeling was heightened by my receiving notices from time to
time of important meetings of the Natural History Society. The natural
         still at times very strong upon me of an afternoon, when
impulse

there nothing else in particular to be done, to wander down to the

Museum. . .
     "Who are the comparative anatomists that confounded
                                                                           a  bear's

fibula with that of a man? That sort of slip gives great occasion to the

unscientific to scoff at wisdom and research."

     Pengelly's exhaustive treatment of the Geology of Devon

shire    thus amusingly described by his friend Archdeacon
       is
                               a
Earle, now Bishop of Marlborough, when enumerating the diffi

culties in choosing subject for his Presidential Address, before

the Kingsbridge Meeting of the Devonshire Association :--T

" First turned my mind naturally enough to the geology of Devon,
         I

and thought (as                  is  evidently the duty of local president to direct
                                      a

                                               I
                                                   Ia
attention to local objects of interest; and in this felt some small
comfort, because very bad bit of timber may make very decent
                                 a
                                   a
directing post) of local paper on the Thurlestone Rock, and the
submerged forest under Milton Sands, which are two of the principal
objects of geological interest in the neighbourhood. But found that
not only had Mr. Pengelly been before me in this particular subject,
but that he would be before me when the address would be read. The
idea of reading                     geological paper in the presence of the father of
                                 a

Devonshire geology was absolutely fossilizing, and felt that would
sooner sit out the remainder of my existence in the remotest darkness
of Kent's Cavern, with the absolute certainty of becoming an interesting
                                                         I
                                                                     I

T* Author of " The Challenger Amphipoda," and " History of Crustacea," etc.1'

   President's Address, ram. Devon. Association, 1877.
1875--1878.]     BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT PLYMOUTH.                            251

addition to the human remains in that solemn crypt of scientific mystery,

Ithan attempt such an impertinence as to speak of geology in his presence.

So left Thurlestone and its geology to him."

     In August, 1877, Pengelly presided over the Geological Sec
tion of the British Association, held at Plymouth; taking for
the subject of the address, " The History of Cavern Exploration
in Devonshire."

                     Przy'essor Harkness to Pengelg'.

                                                      " Penrith, Cumberland, August 3, 1877.

       "I am glad to find you are to be President of Section `C' at
Plymouth. Being a Cornish man, you will be able to give me some
iInftohrimnkatVioenryaabnouBtaythies             where the Silurians occur in the county.
                                        country  on the shore where they are seen, and
                                        a place
Ithat there is a section here which has been described by Sedgwick.
Ihave read Sedgwick's paper, and from it gather that his time and the

weather were not favourable for a proper examination.
    "Is not St. Austell the best place to stop at to see the Silurians?

IHow far is the coast section which shows them from this? After have
seen them, I must try to see the Serpentines, which I think are best
I Iexhibited at the Lizard.
                                            also want to look at the Granites, and wish

also to obtain some minerals. Bonney read a paper on the Serpentines
Iof Cornwall at the Geological Society a short time ago.                     have not
Ifseen and perhaps
a                                           not yet printed.  be, must try and get
                                                     I
        it,
                                it                               it
                                        is
copy from him."                                                  II

       Not only was he warmly supported by his brother geologists,

but the public were attracted by the Chairmanship of one who

had taken leading part in establishing, on a scientific basis, the
              a

belief in the Antiquity of Man. His old friend Mr. Crosskey
was unable to be present, and wrote as follows :--" To my very

great disappointment, engagements, find myself unable to alter,

will prevent me from reaching Plymouth.                            know well how

first-rate the Geological gathering will be, in especial under your

happy Presidency, and all the heartiness which will be thrown

into the Wisdom; but the Fates are against me."

                     Mrs. Pengelly lo lzer Sister.

                                                              " Plymouth, August 18, I877.
       ". . It not large meeting, but many of the Papers are
       .

             I

                    is
                                     a
interesting.         enjoyed one to-day by Professor Rolleston exceed
ingly. The subject was, `The Flora and Fauna of Prehistoric Times.'

I_nHe  also  made some very good            remarks  on the various objects  of interest
       the   Plymouth Museum,               brought  here for exhibition.     Professor

Rolleston     is     delightfully bright speaker, and Professor Newton almost
                  a
252                                 WILLIAM PENGELLY.                      [CI-I. XVI.

equally so. Yesterday we dined at Mr. and Mrs. Fox's, to meet the
President, Professor Allen Thomson, and his party, Dr. Beddoe, Mr. John
Evans, and many others. The pictures are a most interesting feature of
the Exhibition: two Holbeins, a splendid landscape of St. Michael's
Mount, and another of the Mill near Capel Curig by Leader, a charming
study of wallflowers by Mrs. Leader, etc., etc. Of course Sir Joshua
Reynolds, Opie, and other Devonshire artists were represented. We
had a very pleasant day in Cornwall. Mr. E. W. Cooke the marine
artist accompanied us, as he wanted to see that part of the coast which
was new to him. He was delighted with everything, each fern and
flower, as well as the lovely sea views. He made a few charming little
sketches while we were at Looe. Every time we see him he says,
` Wasn't that a delightful day we had in Cornwall.' He is a very old
friend of William's, and they always seem happy together, and enjoy
each other's society extremely. William tried to put himself into the
old Pillory at Looe to amuse us, and Mr. Cooke was so much entertained
that he made a sketch on the spot. A Mr. Ashley, an artist who was
staying at Looe, finding out who Mr. Cooke and William were, gave

        each an engraving of the Pillory adjoining the curious little old
téieurilr:1 hall. . . ."

                                    Mrs. Bulge/1y lo her Sister.

                                                  "Plymouth, August 24, I877.

     ". . . On Thursday William went to act as guide to the Torquay
excursion party of the British Association, Kent's Cavern, of course,
being one of the attractions. He says they had a most enjoyable day,
and that when they reached Panorama hill, they all sat down to rest,
while Professor John Couch Adams gave them an account of the two
sate"llitTeos-doafyMWarisllijaumst  discovered   in America.
                                    and several   other members   of  the  Association                                                                    are

gone to attend a curious old ceremony, held by the Corporation every
year in commemoration of Sir Francis Drake having brought in the

water here from the moor, then and ever since an immense boon to
the people of Plymouth. The ceremony is held about nine miles from

here. It consists in first drinking to the memory of Sir Francis Drake

in water, and then comes the Toast, ` May the descendants of him who

gave us water never want wine.' The first dish served always consists
of fish caught in the Leat."

     Professor Rolleslon z`o Pengelly.

                                                  "33, Clifton Place, Plymouth.

     " Do you happen to have any separate copies of your papers on De
Rivibre's Mentone Man,                            published in        the transactions of
the Devonshire Society?             which were      the volumes       out of the library,

                                      I have got                                                                                                          The

Bsbauumtt es,IhoImunludesetdberenvfoeetrrystaoyg,layadopuprtoliephsaapvteeorsathnoeynppaathppeeerrssMayevonautiolamnbealeyMthaoanvmeiynohfaaynopdua. rrt  own.
                                                                                                                                                          of a

book I'm engaged upon just now."
1875--1878.] DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION AT PAIGNTON.                                                                                                   253

                      Profisror Rolleston to Pengelly.

       "                                              " Oxford, September 4, 1877.

I II wish
am very much obliged to you for the papers you have sent me.
very much had anything of corresponding value or interest to
Isend to you in return.            do send two small publications of mine which
may show you, at any rate, how very heterogeneous my field of activity
Ihere is.    took the opportunity of reading a considerable number of
Iyour papers whilst was at Plymouth, having borrowed the Transattions
I Iof the Devonshire Arsotiation from the library.
                                                                                      do not, if can

avoid go out to dinners at Association or other times, and hence
I                                                                                            a

    it,                                                                                           I
                                                                                                         I
        II

                   it

                   I

                                       it,

                             I
                                           I

                                                                                   a
get quiet evenings for the purpose. But am very glad to have the
papers for myself, and thank you very sincerely for them.
                                                                                             have
referred to them for one or two points in part of book which

Greenwell    and        are bringing out.      the rabbit                             among  the Prehistoric
      " see  that     Dawkins enumerates

Mammalia.             still doubt  and think you do too, from what you say

of the finding of and of the pig in the Mentone Cave. But there                                                                                    is,
of course, as the skull of the pig you showed me and many others,
abundant evidence for the pig having been in England and even
                      in the Neolithic times.
dom"esItticawtoeudld    be, as has always      been,             pleasure to me to see you
                      it

                                                              a

here or elsewhere."

Notwithstanding his unremitting attention to geology, Pen

gelly took considerable interest in folk-lore, dialect, and kindred
             a

subjects, and amongst his correspondents were Professor Skeat

and other eminent authorities.

The Paignton meeting of the Devonshire Association in

1878 occupied his time to a greater extent than usual; for in
addition to the fact that              was held in the immediate neigh
                                   it

bourhood of his residence, the President-elect, Mr. William

Froude, was almost at the last moment prevented from fulfilling

his engagement, owing to the death of his wife. Fortunately
Sir Samuel Baker was prevailed on to fill the vacant place,

which he did most successfully.

                                   Pengelly to his Wife.

                                               " Lamorna, Torquay, june 16, 1878.

" have written the rough copy of my paper on the Geology
I
      .
          .
              .
       I

                                 it
                                          is

                                                I
                                                                                               a
                                                                                          it.

                                                                                   . it
                                                                                                  ." is

                                                                                                                                                `
of Paignton, but instead of embracing the whole Parish,                                      confined
to the Cliff from Torquay Gas Works to C01. Smith's odd looking
house. Two books have recently arrived from the English Dialer!
Society; and one of them dear old delightful Thomas Tusser's Five
Hundred Points of Good Husbandrie.'                   It seems work to be issued
by the Early English Text Society rather than English Dialect Society,

but don't care whence comes, so glad am to get
254        _  WILLIAM PENGELLV.                                                             [CH. XVI.

              C. IV. Pent/i to Pengelly.

     " 3o, Haddington Place, Edinburgh, fuiy 3, 1878.-- I. . . have
again the pleasure of handing                  Ticket for                                   the Meeting of
the Devonshire Association at  you a Lady's                                                  feeling sorrow
                                Paignton.     I confess to
Iat not being able to be with you there.
                                              have the farther regret that
I Ihave nothing to send you to be read.

lived at Paignton for a year or more, and
                                                Perhaps   Iyohuad                           know that
                                              although                                       commenced
                                      did no more, and have no records to
collecting--principally sea-weeds--I  recollections of the Rocks and

refer to. I have, however, faint
Madrepores, the Pholades in the Red Sandstones, and of getting, in

Iwhat was then Paignton harbour, Defromoia purpurea (undera flagstone

   tore up)--several of them. They were such very fine ones, Mr.
Jefi`reys begged two of me when writing his work on shells, believing
them to be a good variety P/zilberti or Lat/ire of Masavinga. See
Jefi'reys, British Conchology, vol. iv. page 374, where he mentions my
find as belonging to Var. 1.

    "I also remember the Beach being thickly covered with a beautiful
Icardium, etc., etc., in such abundance they became a nuisance. Also

remember seeing a seine drawn in upon the beach, with lots of Maia
rguinaa'o, `Gaverok' of the fisherman of Cornwall--plentiful there--want
IirtUneonggfbroeeortnttweudthnh,iapetpseeoealdyslittItcflooedarisdbteitnio.nofgtSIcknoontftolaeawnncwndy.haetbthhoeTeuyhrtewsmtheeaerelmweemorwerahlfaeeenlsml, sainboleeft--tc,hatihushasisvsetinagtiet .heiaxsuvIevaioaowutfegteedhlln.t

known fact that, when the female is exuviating, the male always attends to
                                               Maia     squinado was one of
protect  her, and his shell is then hard.
Charles  Kingsley's pets, see ` Glaucus,' p.  I 3 3. I  do so regret not being

able to visit Paignton 5 after nearly fifty years leaving who would know
     I
                    `I

                                                                                       it,
me?        have wept as walked up  the  street of  "m' y  native                            village,  no one
                                   do   you do?
knowing me to say, Charles, how

     After attending the meeting, Pengelly spent his summer
holiday in Ireland, combining pleasure with business by being
present at the British Association at Dublin, where, besides the
usual Report on the Cavern, he read a paper, entitled, " The
Raised Beaches and Submerged Forests of Torbay," before the

Geological Section.

              Paige/4v to /zi.r VVifi'.

   "British Association, Dublin, August 17, I878.-- . . . dined in
Hall' at Trinity College last night, as Haughton's guest, where met
`

             it
                  ."

                 II

                                            a

                                                                *

                            £

                                               I

                                                                                                                  `

                                                                I
                                                                     I

                                                                     I
Roscoe, W. Adams, and lot of other men knew, and had `a good
time.' After that went to the evening lecture on Animal Intelligence,'

by Mr. Romanes. It was very clever, but unfortunately had to leave
           was over to catch the 9.45 train to Bray. To-night Mr.
before
Findlater* and dine with the Lord Mayor to meet the Lord Lieu

tenant. We agreed to apply for 100 to continue the Kent's Cavern
work. . .
              His host at Bray.
1875--1878.]      DARTMOUTH PARISH CHURCH.                               255

During a visit to Dartmouth in the following month, some

difficulty was experienced by Pengelly and his friends as to

viewing the interior of the chancel of the fine old parish church.

The Rev. Prof. Haughton, who was particularly anxious to see

the finely carved screen, was much annoyed, and said to the

caretaker, "I am a clergyman, and you may tell your Vicar

that he has no right to close this to visitors," adding some very

forcible language to his message. On the next occasion when
Pengelly visited the church, he asked the custodian if she remem

bered his having come there with a clergyman who wanted to
see the chancel. "Oh yes, sir, " was the immediate reply;
" he told me to tell the Vicar that he ought to be d
                                                                         d for
closing it." " Hardly so strongly worded as that," was

Pengelly's amused answer.

                  Pengelly lo his daughter lydia.

                                                  " Lamorna, Torquay, September 6, 1878.
              throw myself on your mercy and admit that have neglected
I I". . .
Ito write you ever since you have been on the borders of Taffy's Land ;*

but, on the other hand, claim your full and deep gratitude for having
brewed you so large a barrel of most admirable weather, wherewith to
enjoy your excursions, picnics, etc. . . . Dr. and Mrs. Boycott are here ;
              yesterday. Professor Haughton of Dublin and
they called                                                              his son
(home from    Ceylon) came to see me on Wednesday. I took                them to
the Museum, to Kent's Cavern, and to Dartmouth, where we called on
Mr. George Bidder, and oddly enough, two Miss Bidders called here the

same day. . . ."

              * His daughter was staying with friends in Monmouthshire.
256  WILLIAM PENGELLY.  [Cit XVII.

                         CHAPTER XVII.

     COMPLETION OF THE EXPLORATION OF KENT'S HOLE.

                                             I879 '10 JULY, 1883.

THE exploration of Kent's Cavern terminated on June 19,
1880, and Pengelly's work is thus referred to by an eminent
geologist,"i who, having been engaged in similar work, was fully
competent to give a just estimate of its value.

     "Day by day, except when the work was stopped, he visited the

cave, and recorded on maps and plans the exact spot where each
specimen was found, for no less than sixteen years. The vast collection

of palaeolithic implements and fossil bones, each of which bears traces
of his handiwork, is represented in most of the museums in this country,

and the annual reports, listened to with so much pleasure by crowds at
the meetings of the British Association, are the most complete that

have ever been published. It may be objected that the accumulation
of so much evidence of the existence of man in the Pleistocene age in
the south of England was unnecessary. It was, however, necessary to
sweep away the mass of prejudice, and this could best be done by
repeating the evidence. Had this not been done man would not occupy
the recognized position which he now holds in the annals of geology.
The rest of Pengelly's life was mainly given up to the researches in the
other caves in Devonshire. In estimating his scientific work, it must not
be forgotten that it was done in addition to the daily task of bread

winning."

     The completion of the excavation ended the last important

geological work undertaken by Pengelly. It was a fitting close

to his long and energetic career, which was characterized by
a past President of the Geological Society, as leaving " a record
equalled by few and surpassed by none."

                          Professor Boyd Dawkins to Pengelly.

   "I "En route--London, February 5, 1879.
            am writing under difficulties, in an express, to ask you to be
kind enough to allow a friend of mine, Mr. Barlow (who is of a geological

           " See Obituary Notices of the Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. lix.
1879--1883.] CANON GREENWELL ON CAVE EXPLORATION. 257

turn), to enter the hallowed precincts of Kent's Hole. And I introduce

him to you.
"I hope that you and yours are none the worse for this Arctic
Iweather--and that you have beaten me in caves.
                                                 have just lately
scored Hip. and R. leptorhinus along with man, of your breccia age.

      " P.S.--Do you know of any small dark Cornishmen of the same sort

I` as the dark Welsh P Stephen Hawker alludes to a small village near him
 which may be what want to discover."

    In April, the Rev. Canon Greenwell, of Durham, to whom
all those who are interested in Pre-historic Archmology are so
greatly indebted, visited Torquay. It is hardly necessary to say
with what pleasure Pengelly received one whose studies and pur
suits were so entirely in accord with his own. Soon afterwards

the distinguished archaeologist wrote, in the following terms :--

        The Rev. Canon Greenwell, D.C.L., F.R.S., to Pengelly.

I" You will not,                                                    " April 9, 1879.

                    am sure, think it impertinent in me when I ex

press my obligation for the most careful, patient, and scientific way in
        you have conducted the exploration of   KI ecnetrt'sainClyavedrind.
Iwhich  aware how thoroughly it had been done,                                  Though
   was                                                                       not rightly
appreciate the wonderful effort of patience it must have been to go on
year after year and inch by inch. Few persons could have put such a

restraint upon themselves as you must have done, and have worked with
such a singleness of purpose. Pre-historic archaeology owes you a deep
of gratitude.
Since saw
I Idebt"            have been as far as the Land's End, seeing a few
               you
I` edawrelyllirnegmpaliancsesinatCoCrhnywsaalwl,stearmonnegasrtPethnezmancae.moTst0-cduaryiouswaassseamt bWlaogoekeoyf
Hole, where there
                    should think, valuable field for exploration.
                   is,I

                                I
                                                       a
                                                                                        a.

                                                                I
                                                                          I
The small cave which has been worked at appears to be still, to some
extent, unexplored. To-morrow go to Stonehenge, which have not

seen for some years past, and then to town for few days before

return home."

     Amongst the visitors to the Kent's Cavern during the year

before the exploration was terminated were the Prince of Wales's
sons, accompanied by their tutor, Mr. Dalton.

                              Mrs. Pengelly to her Sister.

                                                               " Lamorna, Torquay, July 21, 1879.

     ". . . Yesterday, while William was giving young Harrison his
lesson, before leaving for the Devonshire Association Meeting at
Ilfracombe, we received visit from the two sons of the Prince of Wales
with their tutor, Mr. Dalton, who had come over from the Britannia
at Dartmouth. They called to ask William to accompany them to the
                    a
                                                                                               S
258         WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [cit xvrr.

Cavern, but would not hear of his delaying his departure on their

account, as he wished to do. They were most pleasant, asking many
questions about the fossils, corals, etc., in William's museum; but the

skeleton leaves, in the case in the drawing-room, particularly charmed
IPrince George, who is very bright and pleasant looking, much shorter
than his brother, though  believe only about a year younger. The
elder is very like his mother, and will make a very good-looking man.
The bones gnawed by the hyaenas, both ancient and modern, seemed to

amuse them very much.

     "We could not possibly have had a better opportunity of seeing
them. Their midshipman's dress was very becoming to them; they
looked very happy natural boys. When William was showing them a
rough flint implement, Mr. Dalton, their tutor, reminded them that they
had seen similar ones in the museum at Copenhagen. Mr. Dalton
seems fond of science, and is very easy to get on with. He preached
a farewell sermon on board the Britannia on Sunday; he is to
accompany the Princes on the Bate/mute. As they leave Dartmouth
the day after to-morrow, they had no opportunity of coming, or they
Iwould have done so, in order to get William to accompany them to the
Cavern ; so they went there with the guide after leaving us.  could not
help being reminded of the poor Prince Imperial who was so much the
same age and size as Prince Edward, when we saw him in the same room

a few years ago, and he was so pleasant and friendly when he accom
panied his father ** on his visit to us, when you were staying with us,
and we were all so interested in wondering what his future would

be. . . ."

     The meeting at Ilfracombe, mentioned in the last letter,

passed off well under the Chairmanship of Sir Robert Collier.1'
     That held the next year at Totnes was equally successful,

and was presided over by Dr. (now Sir Henry) Acland, of
Oxford, whose charming address was listened to with marked

attention.

    Just before the meeting Pengelly received a letter from
Dr. Acland, then staying at Winchester, in which he says :--

" . . . I cannot help writing a line to say I am coming towards
you. I am looking forward to your meeting with deep interest."

     In later years, when Pengelly had become a confirmed
invalid, Dr. Acland was much at Torquay, and afforded his old

friend much pleasure by the frequent visits he paid him.

     Pengelly naturally felt considerable regret at the loss of an

occupation which had for many years engrossed a large portion

of his time and thoughts. It is characteristic of his solicitude

for the well-being of others that, in concluding his final Report
on the Kent's Cavern explorations, read at the Swansea meeting

     * The Ex-Emperor Napoleon III.  1' Lord Monkswell.
1879--1883.]      DEATH OF PENGELLY'S ONLY SON.                                259

of the British Association, in August, 1880, he dwelt particularly
upon the careful manner in which the workmen had performed
their task, and made a special appeal on behalf of George
Smerdon, of whom he says that "he had been continuously

engaged on the work, and for thirteen years he was the fore

man. During the entire period he not merely discharged his
duties in a most faithful manner, but he never had a misunder

standing with the Superintendents."

     On leaving the Geological Section, after reading this Report,

a telegram was put into Pengelly's hand, urgently summoning
him to Torquay. Arriving at home long after midnight, he'
was mét by the sad intelligence of the death of his only
surviving son, Alfred, whose promising career had been cut
short by an accident encountered in the pursuit of big game
in India. The shock of this sudden bereavement was acutely
felt by Pengelly, though the sympathy of friends, and the
tenderness of feeling shown to him on all sides, relieved, in some
measure, the poignancy of grief. "Your departure, and its
cause," wrote one of his friends from Swansea, "have cast a

gloom on this meeting which nothing can dispel."

    At the Geological Section in particular this kindly feeling of

sympathy was especially strong, as evinced by the following
letter :--

                    VV. W/zilaker, EG.S., to Pengelly.

       " British Association for the Advancement of Science, August 30, 1880.

"I write on behalf of the President and Committee of Section ` C,'
to express our heartfelt sympathy with you in the sad loss of your son,

a loss which we feel may affect you the more from his absence from
                  the suddenness of its occurrence.
hom"e   and from  however, that the affection of the  other  members  of your
       We trust,

family may in some  measure soften the sorrow   which they share.     our
                                                beg you will accept
     "On behalf of  all the geologists here, I

condolence."        _

This melancholy bereavement rendered it necessary that all

geological and other work should for a short time be laid aside.                    '

The first thing which revived Pengelly's interest in daily affairs
was his desire to help in the collection for the " Smerdon Fund."

He had experienced too much trouble himself, and was,

moreover, too considerate by nature, ever to be indifferent to

the anxieties and needs of others. The claims of his valued

workman--like himself a sufferer from rheumatism brought on
260                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.                        [CH. XVII.

by labouring in the damp cavern--were advocated by him so

ably that a sufficient sum was collected to purchase for the old
                                  '
man a small annuity.

     During the spring of 1881 Pengelly had the pleasure of again

meeting Sir James Watson and Sir Henry Cooper at Torquay.
The latter remained there for some time, and took many rambles

with his old friend, who was still a good walker, in earlier years

having been able to manage forty miles a day with ease.

    In July Pengelly paid a most pleasant visit to the Rev.

Richard and Mrs. Barham of Dawlish, to attend the Devonshire

Association Meeting. His host, a son of the author of the
" Ingoldsby Legends," and himself a man of fine literary taste,

was a most bright and genial companion. Just before the
meeting, he wrote to Pengelly concerning a paper on which he

was engaged.

              Rev. 1?. H. D. Bar/1am to Pengelly.

" MY DEAR                            " West Clifi', Dawlish, July 4, 1881.
" . . . My
              MR. PENGELLY,          for      the  press,  as  one  or two
              paper is not ready

points remain to be made clear. Let me thank you, however, very
Iheartily, for the friendly interest you have shown in it. But the fact is

  have been ill, very ill part of the time, or the article would have been
completed. . . . We have trouble before us anent our `Barrow,' which
Mr. Hutchinson proposes to open. The money wanted was voted
nem. con. ,- but the proprietor talks of his wife's feelings !--regards it as
a family mausoleum--would like to be present when it is opened, but
can't--expects to find his                         athnderejib--bief r--nont,otc, anI 'tfegaur,estos
where he can be, etc., etc.  great grandfather
                               Clearly a shuffler
be driven or coaxed. Baker, however, fancies he has got another dish of

the same sort to set before the ASsociation.       Once more let me thank

you for all your kindness."

     Pengelly read two or three papers at the Devonshire
Association. An enthusiastic friend who had contributed a

paper with which Pengelly was much pleased, wrote to him
afterwards thus modestly, " My small contribution savoured of

ISolomon's cargoes, apes and peacocks among gold and ivory.

. . . You need not fear that shall desert the Association as
long as you are with it."

    It had been suggested by a large circle of Torquay friends,

in the beginning of 188I, that Pengelly should be presented
with his portrait. The proposition met with a hearty response `
both in the neighbourhood and elsewhere, and in the summer
1879--1883.]        SITS FOR HIS PORTRAIT.   261

of the same year the well-known portrait-painter, Mr. Arthur S.
Cope, was commissioned to undertake the work; so Pengelly

left Dawlish for London, in order to begin the sittings for
his portrait. In the meetings of the Medical Congress he found

a pleasant relief from the monotony of sitting.

                      Pengelly to his Wife.

                                           "Surbiton, Surrey, August 10, 1881.
I"Monday brought me a letter from the best of wives, and to this
I Iproceed in the first instance.
                      read to Mr. Cope the passage, ` hope
he will not put you too much colour, as it is not natural to you to have

very much.' He received the hint charmingly. In fact he is a most
agreeable fellow. He told me a day or two ago that he believed the

Iportrait would be the best he had done.

     "Now for such news as have in my budget. Last Monday
Wilberforce Bryant* andI went to the gathering of the ` Medicos' at
Holly                It was very wet, and
        LoIdgmee.t                         the crowd and packing were very
great.              many old friends--Dr.  Leith Adams, Gwyn Jeffreys, Dr.

Gladstone, Tomlinson, Mr. Johnson (nephew of Rajah Brooke), Mr.

Critc"hYeetst,tearnddayotohnersle. av. in.g . Cope I went to the Physiological Section of

the Medical Congress, and was in time to hear the President of the
Section, Dr. Michael Foster, close the Section, which he did in a very
eloquent speech. MacAlister was there, and we chatted a little.
The final meeting of the Congress was held at two, in St. James's Hall,
when Huxley delivered a lecture on Medicine and the Biological
Sciences. The meeting was very large, but he was not heard well.
The lecture will no doubt appear in an early number of Nature. After
the lecture, the `Butter ' [concluding] meeting, which was well managed.
Amongst the audience were Dr. Henry Acland, Dr. Carpenter, Dr.
I IBoycott, Bowman (oculist), Allen Thomson, Joseph Lister, and
several others knew.  sat by Mac Alister, Prof. of Zoology at
Dublin. . . . "

     The Jubilee Meeting of the British Association in 1881
was appropriately held at York, the cradle of the Association.
An unusually large number of old members attended, and
Pengelly had the pleasure of again meeting Alfred Russell
Wallace, Sir Joseph Hooker, Professor Owen, Sir William
Armstrong, Professor Huxley, Sir Andrew Ramsay, and many
other friends. He also made the acquaintance of Dr. Asa Gray,

the distinguished American botanist, who was a guest at the
same house in which he was staying.

    A friendship sprang up at once between the two scientists,

and Dr. and Mrs. Asa Gray visited Torquay, before leaving for

America.

           * A former favourite pupil, and now his very kind host at Surbiton.
262                      WILLIAM PENGELLY.             [CH. XVII.

     Pengelly's portrait was completed in the winter, and the day
before it was presented he thus wrote to his wife's invalid sister,
for whom he entertained the highest regard :--

     " Lamorna, Torquay,fanua1y 18, 1882.-- . . . Time has invested

me with authority to congratulate my relatives and friends whenever
an anniversary of their
happen to your history   birthday occurs.     Such an anniversary  is to
                                            be well, and the note
                         to-morrow, if all                         I am

now writing is intended to convey to you my very warm congratulations
I Ion the event.
                am using no mere words of custom or civility when
Isay that am--that we are--thankful, very thankful, that you have
Ibeen spared to us; and am thankful,        too, that  I am still among

those who can offer you congratulations.     When I    occasionally look
over my correspondence, the fact that most of my friends are already

Igone, comes vividly, painfully before me ; and a few minutes ago, when

looking over the list of subscribers to my portrait, was struck with
the fact that, though the list was opened no longer ago than last May,
eight of the names are those of friends who have since passed to the
unseen world. ` On this side, and on that, men see their friends drop
off, like leaves in autumn.' The portrait just mentioned was to have

been presented on the 12th inst., my birthday; but being inconvenient
to the secretary of the committee, the day was changed to the 19th,
to-morrow, your birthday instead of mine. The portrait arrived
yesterday, but has not yet been unpacked. The artist (Mr. A. S. Cope)
is to reach Torquay to-night, and take up his abode with Mr. Lavers
until Friday morning, when he returns to town. We are to meet him
to-morrow at dinner (Thursday evening), and there are to be no other

guests. . . ."

     The following notice of Pengelly, which appeared shortly
after the presentation, shows that, in spite of his long residence
in Devonshire, it was never forgotten that he was a Cornishman,
and it also bears testimony to the sincere regard entertained
towards him in the West Country.

     " Mr. Pengelly, F.R.S., is a link binding Cornwall to Devon. Born
at Looe, and being a thorough Cornishman in sympathy and in social
characteristics, he has become a naturalized Devonian by a residence
of forty-six years at Torquay. The time has not yet come, happily----
and we hope is far distant--for reviewing Mr. Pengelly's work as a
whole. He has yet, we trust, much useful work to do, much pleasure
to impart, and much happiness to enjoy. But he has long since, by

his genius and industry combined, become famous alike as a geologist,
a lecturer, a humorist, and a public man of very varied attainments and

multifarious work. To know him well is to esteem him highly, and to
be admitted to his society is a profitable privilege. It is not surprising,
therefore, that Mr. Pengelly's fellow-townsmen should make him an ex
ception to the proverbial rule, and do honour to the prophet in their
midst. The admirable portrait of himself, presented to Mr. Pengelly on
1879--1883.] HIS BOOK ON KENT'S CAVERN ABANDONED.          263

Thursday, the arrangements being made by the committee of the local
Natural History Society, is a well-merited tribute of admiration, respect,
and regard. By doing honour to Mr. Pengelly, reflected honour has
been shed upon the committee which originated and carried out the
proposal."

     For a year or two after the completion of the excavation,
Pengelly had the full intention of giving to the scientific world
the results of his conclusions, in a more complete form than
could be found in his scattered papers to various societies. In
1882 he writes thus to an American correspondent :--

   Iif . . . have no reason whatever to change my opinions respecting

the stalagmites of Kent's Cavern, namely, first, that they are of very slow
accumulation; second, that they are not necessarily definite or trust

Iworthy chronometers. 1 have not abandoned the idea of publishing a

bwooorll: .'o' n Kent's Cavern : but am an old man, having my hands full of

Gradually, however, the conclusion forced itself upon him

that the task must be given up, seeing how entirely his time was
"Ioccupied with gratuitous work for local societies. In 1884 he
wrote to a correspondent:  have more writing on my hands
than I shall ever get through." Had the book which he con

templated been written, it might have proved a really important

contribution to geological literature. It is not, of course, for

the present writer to estimate the loss caused to the scientific
world by the abandonment of the scheme; but knowing how

congenial the work would have been to him who alone could

it,
                                 a

                                      II

                                                                                                        a
have executed she cannot but regret that its accomplishment

remained for ever an unfulfilled desire.

In March, 1882, Pengelly received a volume entitled,
`Addresses and Sermons," by the Rev. E. E. Jenkins, M.A.,*

who was his assistant teacher, when he was conducting his

school at Torquay.

Rev. E. E. fen/tins to .Pengeléy.

                        "3, The Paragon, Blackheath, S.E., March 14, 1882.

"I am sending you a copy of volume which               hope you will
                        accept for `Auld
do me the favour to     but none of them  Lang Syne.'  have now

long past of memories,                    are more distinctly traced or
more agreeably recalled than the scenes of our association now many

years ago. Our vocations have called us to tread different paths, but

* President of the Wesleyan Methodist Conference in 1880.
264          WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [CI-l. XVII.

I believe both have been honest  Iseekers after truth; and pray that

the great Author and Redeemer    of our mind may permit us to find
light and rest in Himself."

    Pengelly was Vice-President of Section "C" of the British

Association, which met at Southampton in 1882.

             Fangs/{y 10 his Wife.

   I"S0ut/zampz`on, British Assoa'ation, August 23, 1882.-- . . . Got

here safely yesterday afternoon. Professor W. G. Adams and lunched

together at Salisbury, saw cathedral and Blackmore Museum, and

Itravelled thence together. At the station found Harpley and son.

He had secured lodgings for me, if chose to have them. Went to
Reception Room with them; found that every hotel of every kind was
full and had `turned hundreds away.' Went with Harpley to said
lodgings--close to the sea, of which a fine view. No extra charge for
I`insects.'
             had to get up between one and two, and after sundry
Iexperiments and failures slept, if did sleep, on the floor. Professor
W. G.                                                  no
        Adams, not having    a Harpley here, had got  seen     lodgings when
I saw  him about eight last  night. 3.30 p.m.--Have            lots of friends.
Don't think there will be
                             a newspaper worth sending.     a  No daily  paper
in this town. I am again                                       member    of the
                             a vice-president of ` C,' and
Committee of Recommendations.    My paper is to be read in `C'

to-morrow (Thursday), and in Anthropology another day. . . ."

                           Pengelly to his Wife.

                                       " Southampton, August 29, 1882.

     " . . . Sir William Thomson's lecture on the Tides, which was given to
a large audience, was good for all who understood it. But Thomson him
self was splendid ; he danced about the platform in all directions, with a
huge pointer in his hand; he shook in every fibre with delighted excite
Iment, and the audience were as delighted as he.
                                                      sat next Prestwich,
IJ. C. Adams, and W. G. Adams. On Sunday, in the afternoon, took
I Ia. delightful walk on the left bank of the river up to the village of Mill

brook, whence walked back to Southampton. In the evening went to
Ichurch and heard the rector of All Saints preach, in his own pulpit, a

capital sermon on the words, `What shall do to be saved P' He is a
brother of the new Dean of Westminster, and happily neither patted
I I IScience on the back, nor took up the question of `Science versus
Theology.'   was glad went. Yesterday             read my paper to the
`Anthropops,' where it was well received. Evans and Dawkins spoke

on it.

    ". . . In the evening Professor Mosely gave a capital lecture on

` Pelagic Life,' which, pardon the impertinence, means strictly, ` Life on

the Surface of the Ocean, distant from Land.' It was well delivered
and well illustrated. Thanks were proposed by Professor Gamgee, and
seconded by the Bishop of Winchester,  mthaerrisecdholaarlTyruHroarolalddy.BroIwnwea,s
whilom a rector ,near Truro, and who
1879--1883.] EFFORTS IN THE CAUSE OF TEMPERANCE.                                   265

glad to see him. There has been a long discussion in our Section to-day
anent the Channel Tunnel, and we have been popular. . . . "

     In the autumn of 1882, a Temperance Mission, conducted

by Canon Wilberforce and other eloquent speakers, was held at
Torquay. In the midst of scientific activity, the busy geologist

found time to attend these meetings, which appealed warmly to
his sympathies as a means of raising the moral standard of the
people and conducing to their happiness and well-being. He

wrote thus of the mission :--

                                                 " Lamorna, Torquay, October 4, 1882.

H . . . The Temperance Mission was a remarkable affair. The final

figures  are that   250O9f         new pledges   have been taken,    and 4290 blue
ribbons  accepted.                 course there  are many children,  who, like some

of riper years, may change their minds ; nevertheless a very large amount
of good has no doubt been done. Blue ribbons meet the eye everywhere,
Iworn by persons of all ages and all ranks, from the old magistrate to
the small errand boys, and including some rough loafers.             made use
of the `blue flag' yesterday. Several small boys were teasing, almost
                                   the ` mad woman ' who comes about sometimes.     As
IbI epyaosnsdedetnhdeurgarnocuep,                                                  and
                                   I observed that two of the boys wore the blue,
at once appealed to them not to disgrace the ribbon by their cowardly
cruelty. The appeal had the desired effect. ' This month's Fraser
contains the following announcement, `With the present number the
publication of Fraser's Magazine will cease. On November rst the first
number will be published of Longmans' Magazine, which will be con
tinued monthly.' Thus dear old Fraser died with the issue of No. 6 34,
which signifies an age of fifty-two years and ten months; and it makes
me sad. The fact is significant. Longmans--the publishers in each

case--hope to reap a better harvest by cultivating readers who can pay

6d. monthly, than those who pay 2s. 6d. monthly. In short, the masses

have become readers; there's a text for you. . . ."

     Pengelly's enthusiasm in the cause of science first drew Mr.
H. H. Howorth's * thoughts to the study of Eastern ethnology.

                    HIf. Howorth to Pengelly.

                                                                                   " Eccles, May 23, 1883.

I "It was a gleam of sunshine to receive a letter from you.

   am buried elbow deep in Eastern ethnology, and receive heaps of
letters from all kinds of Eastern sages, but from none whose acquaint

Iance hold more dear than the famous Troglodyte of Devonshire, whose
Ienthusiasm first, believe, stirred me to think of these subjects. Will
"Iyou send me your photograph to add to my so-called menagerie?

         expect to have a whole posse of geological hammers on my
                 * Now Sir Henry Howorth, M.P., K.C.I.E., F.R.S., etc.
266                        WILLIAM PENGELLY.          [0a. XVII.

Ihead before I have done; but mean to go on, for no chickens are
hatched until some shell is broken, and if mine prove addled, well, the
sitting will not have been altogether thrown away, and you, who used to
I Ilove"fiMghatyinygo, uwliivllefoforgr iveevemr ;e.and if any chance brings you this way, come
and see me.        am afraid shall not be at Southport ; a congress of

IEastern people at Leyden will have greater attractions for a Mongol

like me. Many thanks for the note about the Lemming, which will

take care shall be used."

     The following letter from Pengelly is in reply to another
from Mr. Howorth, which is unfortunately missing :--

                   H HPelzgelly to         Howortlz.

                                              "Torquay, July 9, 1883.

I"Thank you for yours of the 6th inst.                read Dawkins' letter

Iin the Geo. Mag. for July, and had no doubt that you would reply.

When you say, `There are no Scotch caves,' presume you mean
none that have yielded remains of mammoth. The Proc. Society of
Antiquarians of Scotland (vol. x., I87 5) contains a Paper, by Messrs.
Corrie, Bruce-Clarke, and Hunt, descriptive of a cave they explored in
Kirkcudbrightshire. They begin with a long notice of caves previously
explored near Montrose, at Wemyss, near North Berwick, in Banffshire,
at Oban, and at Duntroon, in Argyleshire. None of them appear to

have any bearing on your question.
     `I"The following passage occurs in Leith Adam's British Fossil
Elephants (Pal. Son, p. 174):              can now have no hesitation in

aIsdlems.i'ttinIg  the Mammoth among the   pre-Glacial Mammals of the    British
                   think Mr. Newton takes  this view in his `Vertebrata  of the

IForest Bed.'                                 am sorry you are not to be

     "Here's the photo, such as it is. . . .

at Southport."

    It was in the summer of this year that Professor Huxley

was elected President of the Royal Society, and Pengelly, who

greatly admired his splendid services to science, and also en

joyed his personal friendship, wrote warm congratulations on
the occasion. The following extract from a letter in response

shows how much the Professor appreciated the pleasure which
the appointment gave to his large circle of friends :--

                   Profersor Huxley. to Pengelly.     " July, 1883.

   "I am a very bad correspondent, but not so bad as to think
Iof leaving a kind letter like yours without acknowledgment. . . .
think the best part of the business is the multitude of kind expressions
which have reached me in consequence of it."
1879--1883.] DEVONSHIRE ASSOCIATION AT EXMOUTH.                              267

    Later in July Pengelly, according to his invariable custom,

attended the meeting of the Devonshire Association, which
was held this year at Exmouth, under the Presidency of the
well-known historian, Dr. Merivale, Dean of Ely.

    It will be readily understood that Pengelly, in common with

most men whose scientific work has attracted general attention,

was continually asked to furnish a sketch of his life and labours
for periodical publications and biographical notices ; nor did he
escape frequent applications for a conference from "interviewers."
He had, however, the strongest objection to say or write any

thing that might savour of self-seeking notoriety or adver

tisement, and his replies, though always courteous, were
sufficiently decided to stay further correspondence. The follow

ing may be taken as an example of the numerous letters of a
similar kind he had to write :--

                                                            " Lamorna, Torquay.
"I beg to acknowledge receipt of your kind letter and to thank
Iyou, as well as the Editor of
                           , for your gratifying proposal.                       can

only say in reply that it has always appeared to me undesirable to
print a biographical sketch of a living person, and undesirable that any

one "shIoturludstwyrioteu  his 0wn biography.  churlish in  abiding by  the  aforesaid
                            will not think me

opinions."
268                                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.               [CIL XVIII.

                                     CHAPTER XVIII.

                        MISCELLANEOUS WORK.

                        SEPTEMBER, 1883, '10 OCTOBER, 1887.

IN September, 1883, Pengelly, having been elected President of
the Anthropological Department of the British Association at
Southport, took for the subject of his address," The Bone Caves
of Devonshire)" He had lately devoted much of his time to
the work of distributing duplicate specimens of the fossils found
during the excavations at Kent's Hole amongst various museums,
and his next letter refers to some of his work, before leaving

home.

                        Pengeléy to his youngest daughter, Hester.

   I". .                                              "Lamorna, Torquay, September, 1883.

\Vatsons. trust         you          mkainydh, avI e    a  safe and  pleasant journey--that the
         will be        most                          am    sure.    Please time your journey

Idown from Scotland? so as to reach SouthpOrt on the 18th as early
as you can. . . .       was hard at work all last week, as indeed for

some time before, arranging Kent's Cavern specimens for exhibition in
Iour Museum 3                                         arrange them Mr. ElseI fastens them

in their places.                                      complete the arranging before leaving
                        almost as fast as

                          I am anxious to
Ifor Southport, so that Else may complete his part by the time return,
if all be well. We shall then be able to get the room ready for the
Ilectures. Else works capitally ; but it will tax him to the uttermost to
get ready in time.                   had quite a foretaste of the British Association

yesterday.              The post brought me a letter from Bonney about my
address. Also a letter from Spence Bate, to the effect that he was not

going to Southport, but intended to attend the Canada Meeting next
year; he wishes to go as some sort of ofiicial.

* See Chapter VII.
1` His daughter was for the first time visiting the Western Highlands with Sir
Jame1sMarn. dElMseis,s   Watson.
                        the Curator  of the Torquay        Natural   History Society, who for many

years was invaluable in carrying out all the arrangements at the Museum, in a. most
efficient manner.
1883-1887.]                            DEATH OF PROFESSOR HEER.                                  269

      -" While at the Museum, two youths, sons of Professor Balfour Stewart,
called, bringing cards of introduction from their father and Boyd
IDawkins. They had scarcely sat down, when Mr. Francis Galton,*

whom you no doubt remember, called on me, and did what was civil
to the trio, and dismissed them. Galton and his wife are in lodgings
here. Next came Mr. George Griffith (whom you also remember), his
                                                                                                       `
Iwife and some friends, and once more had to be civil. . . . Sunday.
IAbout 1.45 started for Oddicombe beach, and walked thence under the
Icliff to Babbacombe, and then home. My object being to see whether

the Teign Naturalist Field Club, which am to conduct on Tuesday, all
being well, would be prevented by the tide from getting along under the
                                       ` they will not.'
cliff.   I  The result was             time to enter the   door with J.     E.  Lee,T  and  our  old
      "     got home just in

friend, Professor Roemer of Breslau. The Professor with his Professoress,

is on a visit to Mr. Lee. They all intend to go to Southport."

                                       Pengelly to his daughter Hes/er.

                                                           " Lamorna, Torquay, October, [883.
      I" Your letter arrived yesterday, and I may safely say it was
welcome.      have never seen Whalley Abbey, but Ingleborough Cave 1
have seen. . . . You no doubt remember that in my Addressi I stated
that no trace of hyaana had been found in the Forest Bed of Cromer.
Since my return Mrs. Colman of Norwich, wife of the M.P. of that city,
has written me stating that hyaenas' teeth, now in her possession, were
found recently in the Forest Bed, and are to be figured and described
in
      th"eOGneaSluongdicaayl,  MMarg.a--zin--e  shortly.
                                                 preached  on the  following lines--

                               ` God leads to joy through suffering,
                                To quietness through strife,
                                Through yielding unto conquest,
                                Through death to endless life.'

Who is the author? The preacher spoke well and at some length,
professedly by way of exposition; but, like many expositors, he found
         in the lines than the author intended
         Did tell you that my old friend and
Imore"                                                             probably.    Professor  Heer of
IZurich,                                                           co-worker,

dead.                                   saw by the journals last night that Barrande is
            was dead?
                                       who and what he was when you return, if you
            Iwill tell you

wish."

     In the following summer a party of excursionists belonging
to the " Geologists' Association " of London visited Devonshire,
making Plymouth their head-quarters, and Pengelly was asked
to arrange a geological day's excursion for them at Torquay.

      * Francis Galton, D.C.L., F.R.S., etc.                       "
                                       F.S.A., F.G.S.  Author                           Translator of
   _  +FJ.ohKnellEedr`ws ar"d    Lee,  Dwellings."             of     Isca  Silurum."  of the British
Dr.                            Lake
      I Delivered at Southport to the Anthropological Department
Association.
270                       \VILLIAM PENGELLV.                                        [CH. XVIII.

                          HPengelly to W.      Huddlertone, FIGS.

                                               " Lamorna, Torquay, May 27, 1884.

at   "Your       letter of the 24th duly       arrived yesterday. I know of                                     nothing
                 to render zrst July or
    present                                    4th August an unsuitable day.                                     It will
be high water about 4.45 on each date, and as the party will no doubt
travel by the train leaving Plymouth at 8.35, and due here at 10.6, that
wI ilml eseutit                                  The following is my programme :--
                 fairly,  not perfectly well.  and conduct you along the coast to
                 you at    Torquay Station,
Hope's Nose--~the northern horn of Torquay--pointing out the Sub
merged Forest on Torre Abbey Sands, the place of junction of the
Trias and the Devonian Limestone, the contortions in the Torquay
Limestone, the Slaty Cleavage at Meadfoot, the Raised Beach at Hope's
Nose, and the contorted and Cleaved Limestone near                                  This will be
                                               if

                                                                               it.
quite as much as we can accomplish, we proceed on foot; but the best

plan, on every account, would be to take boats at Torquay, and to land
at points of great interest
Hope's Nose. In this case    (not otherwise accessible)             on the way to
                             we might be able to reach             the fine junction
of the Trias and Devonian in Babbacombe Bay, touching, perhaps, at
the Trap of the Black Head on our way.         will inform Mr. Champer
                                               it I

                                                                                 a
                                                                                                    ."
nowne of my proposed programme, but will not in all probability
clash with his. A month of hard work would give but superficial
acquaintance with the geology between the Teign and the Dart. . .

         was about this time that Pengelly was introduced to Mr.! It
F. S. Ellis," who had lately come to reside in the neighbour
hood of Torquay. The acquaintance soon ripened into friend
ship, and was avsource of great pleasure to them both. Mr.
Ellis, writing after Pengelly's death, says " His was one of those
                          is

                                                                           :
                                                                                                             ;
wonderful personalities towards which one feels at once attracted,
and with which one more charmed by recurring intercourse.

Alas that such men must share the common lot but his

memory will sweetly live while one person survives who knew
him."

     Pengelly attended all the meetings of the British Association,
from 1856 to 1889 inclusive, with the exception of that held
at Montreal in 1884. From the time when the visit to Canada
was first mooted, he had strenuously opposed the suggestion,
not only because of the increased expense to the members, but
mainly because he thought impossible for many of the leading
                          a

                                          it
                                              it

                                                                                                  a
scientists to spare the time requisite for such an expedition.

Notwithstanding this protest was suggested by some people,

that, being such regular attendant, he would certainly be seen
at the meeting. Anyone entertaining such an idea for moment

    * F. S. Ellis, author of the "Shelley Concordance,"    and editor of the

Chaucer and numerous other books for the Kelmscott Press.
1883--1887.] PRE-HISTORIC MONUMENTS IN BRITTANY.                                  27!

must have understood his character very little, for he was the

last man in the world to change his mind, without good and

sufficient cause. The time he might, perhaps, have spared,

and the expense was not an objection (for his wife's private
means had new become sufficiently ample to save him all

anxiety on the score of cost), but his decision remained un

altered. There is abundant evidence, in letters he received from

eminent members of the Association, to prove that he was by no

means isolated in his opinion on this matter.

This summer Pengelly, accompanied by his family, made a

long tour in Cornwall.

The following letter, received from a medical friend who

shared his antiquarian tastes, and love of Cornwall, greatly

pleased Pengelly :--
                                         " Auray, South Brittany, Sunday, June 15, 1884.

   "I have been thinking of you so much to-day, and wishing so much
Iyou were with me as counsellor, companion, and friend, that have

dete"rmOinnetdhistobrhigahvte   my say to you on   paper.  wind,  I started  for  Carnac,
                               summer's day, with  a cool

and the country all there about, to see the Megaliths and the Cromlechs,
I Iand                                                     with them. It is
                                         am                forgotten, I have
sight.                                   the
have seen so many               that                blasé                         a grand
                               land of             great                          been in
I have been in the
Ithe tombs of the mighty dead, have moralized among avenues of
Megaliths that in the distance seem coming over the hills like a pack

Iof hounds in full cry, and have spent two hours in small local
Imuseums which have made me take in learning by the pores, and
have longed for you. The French Government (vive la République)
protect their historic monuments. They have set up a great number
of the stones on their bases again, they have run a narrow trench each
side of the avenues, and have put up what look like milestones, and
thereon inscribed ` propriété de l'état,' with a caution against mischief
makers. Every Cromlech is protected by a light rail or hurdle with the
same stone, and at the junction of the roads are iron finger-posts
directing the traveller where to go and what to see. `They manage
these things better in France,' says Yorick, in the ` Sentimental Journey,'

and they do.

     "That most glorious of all mediaeval monuments, St. Michael's Mount,
visited by me last Wednesday, is also protected and very well restored

by the Government.

     "There are three sets of monuments here: tumuli, dolmens, and
menhirs. In the tumuli are found human remains, pottery, glass beads,
gold collars and bracelets, bronze implements. In the dolmens, parts
of human skeletons, in
                               one case   a complete skeleton lying    on his side,
Iwhich have seen, and,          with or  without these remains, flint  implements,

beautifully shaped barbed arrow heads, a few with some polished

neolithic ornaments, and crystals or crystal pebbles and mother-of
pearl shells, and chalcedony, pierced for ornaments, but underneath
272                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.            [CH. XVIII.

Ithe megalithic menhirs nothing is found but palaeolithic chipped spear
heads,   etc., of the usual type.     Itook a 10ng  time questioning the
curator  of a museum on this point,                 each article separately
                                     and touched

and said menhir, tumulus, and so on to the end, and then he told me

Ithat no polished tool had ever been found under r menhir, nothing but
rough chipped flints.  questioned him particularly as to whether it
was only a chance find, whether it were only one found here and there,
but he said positively that they were found in numbers under the few

that had been undermined, and he showed me a drawing to corroborate

his statement. Now, if this be so, it is a most remarkable fact, because
it connects the erection of these menhirs with the old flint chippers,
as much as the money put under the foundation stone of a modern

building connects the building with its modern founders.       cannot

    I"Brittany is French Cornwall. It is Cornwall all over.
Iimagine at times am out of England. The rail is like the Cornish
rail-runs along the tops of hills, then suddenly comes upon a deep
valley and you shoot over it on a lofty viaduct--one a hundred and sixty
Ifeet high. Then a town was at (Concarnea) yesterday, is supported
I Ifon, and stinks of, pilchards. Well, could stand all that.  God sends

I Ithem pilchards, and they are nasty enough to eat them, it is no sin; but

when found they had stolen a Cornish saint and rechristened him, was
angry. Why, in the church at Landerneau, there is an enormous painting
of an old saint crossing to Brittany on a big flat stone pushed by angels.
Now we KNOW that it was St.:Piran who came to Cornwall, from Ireland,
on a grindstone, and these pirates have boned the idea and the credit."

     From Falmouth Mrs. Pengelly wrote to her sister :--

     "August 13, r884.--- . . . We are much enjoying ourselves, the
sea is splendid and the harbour very fine. On our way here we visited
Lostwithiel, an interesting quaint old town, with an exquisite lantern
spire on the church; from there we walked to Restormel Castle, a ruin,
more beautiful though not so extensive as Berry Pomeroy. We then
went on to Truro, where we paid a visit to the new Cathedral, and were

astonished to find it so far advanced. It will be very beautiful when
the tower is finished. At twelve next day we went to the Polytechnic

Hall, and soon met Anna Maria Fox, who at once engaged us to go to
Pengerrick in the afternoon. It was so nice to see her again; she starts
for Canada to-morrow to attend the British Association. The Bolithos,
and many others we met, all seemed delighted to see William down in
his native county, and he was speedily pounced upon to second the
vote of thanks to Lord Mount Edgcumbe for laying the foundation
stone of the new Observatory.

     "We all attended the ceremony in the afternoon. Archdeacon
Phillpotts read a suitable prayer; he is very like his father the old
bishop. William spoke after Mr. T. Bolitho. We then started for
Pengerrick; there were only a few invited (as Anna Maria Fox was
starting so soon). Mrs. Warrington Smyth and a few others. The
.place, as you will imagine, looked delightful, the trees and shrubs
magnificent; many subtropical. Palms in abundance, though not
1883--1887.] DECLINES TO LECTURE AT ROYAL INSTITUTION. 273

large. A Tree-fern seemed most flourishing, as well as a Camphor

tree, and some rare specimens from Califomia and other warm

countries. The birds would have delighted you. In the evening we
returned to see a torchlight procession of boats round the harbour.

The Polytechnic Exhibition was a very good one--especially the
pictures. Those of Napier Hemy (who lives here) were decidedly
interesting."

On returning home at the end of August, Pengelly received

a letter from his friend Dr. Percy, Professor of Metallurgy,

introducing Mr. Woolner, the sculptor and poet, who had long

wished to make his acquaintance. Mr. Woolner had prolonged

his stay at Torquay that he might be able to visit Kent's Cavern

under such able guidance. Immediately after reaching London
he sent Pengelly a copy of his poem, " Silenus," with a letter of

hearty thanks expressing the extreme interest he had found in

witnessing the evidences of pre-historic life under such favour

able circumstances.

Later in the autumn Sir Henry Thompson, the eminent

surgeon, visited Devonshire, and was most enthusiastic in his

appreciation of the wonders of Kent's Cavern and the collection

of specimens disinterred from                         as arranged in the Museum
           I
of the Natural History Society. He wrote of his visit to theI
Cavern as " one of the most delightful treats ever enjoyed,"II

and was very anxious to induce Pengelly to lecture onceit,
more at the Royal Institution. He was, however, unable to

accede to the request, and wrote as follows to Sir William

Bowman :--

            Pengelly to Sir VVi/liam Bowman.

                                                      " Torquay, November 26, I884.

"Thank you very much for your kind proposal that should
give two lectures on Kent's Cavern at the Royal Institution nextit

                                                              I
February.   have thought the matter over, and have come to the
conclusion that the topic has become a little stale.
"Most people are satisfied that Man's advent was not later than
Pleistocene times, and are now considering whether was not earlier;
and on this part of the question have little or nothing to say.

"Moreover, all the Cavern specimens having been distributed to

various museums, have nothing whatever to show an audience.
     "On the whole, therefore, feel under the necessity of declining
       kind proposal.
your"  While recently  on a visit  here, Sir Henry Thompson  went   to               the

Cavern, and to the Museum of the Torquay Natural History Society,
with me, and was greatly interested; but unfortunately
                                                        I    cannot take

the Cavern, or the Museum into your lecture theatre."

                                                                 T
274                   WILLIAM PENGELLY.              [CH. XVIII.

     He had now given up all professional work, even the teaching

for which he had so great a love and so remarkable an aptitude.

It has already been mentioned that he had a great power of

winning the affection of those he taught, and an old pupil, the

well-known novelist "Q" (A. T. Quiller Couch), who attended

the lectures he gave some years before at Newton College,
writes thus appreciatively :--

     " Your father's visits to Newton are among the  pleasantest   recollec
                                                     particularly  kind to
tions of my school life there, and I think he was
me for the sake of my ` haveage.' I know he once tried to persuade
the Head Master (Mr. Warner) to let me have a whole holiday with
him in Kent's Cavern--unluckily without success. But what kindness
I Ion the part of such a man, towards an urchin of twelve!

    "He was, think, the most inspiriting lecturer have ever met.
He simply compelled one to attend. But it is rather as a friend that--
with all the difference of years--I presume to remember him."

    His last pupil was the present writer.
     The year 1885 was mainly occupied by miscellaneous work.
Amongst the visitors of note to Torquay during the winter was
the traveller, Mr. im Thurm.

                      M`s. Pengelly to lzer Sister.

     ". . .                                    " Lamorna, Torquay, December 29, I885.
             The traveller you ask about who is staying here, is Mr. im
Thurm, of British Guiana, the first explorer who has ever ascended

the very remarkable mountain there, called Roraima. He found some

very curious plants on his expedition, and showed us some striking
photographs of the vegetation there. William has been greatly interested
by his descriptions of the natives and their customs, and hopes to get
him to give a lecture on them. Mr. and Miss im Thurm brought home
from British Guiana a squirrel monkey, which they have given to the
Zoological Society of London. He told us that when he went there the
other day it twined round him most affectionately, though he had never
taken much notice of  as belonged to his sister; this certainly
             a it

                           a
                                  it,

                                        it
shows that had wonderful memory. Poor Sir Walter Medhurst,
whom we had seen so much of since he came to live here lately, was
seized with most alarming attack on Wednesday, after taking cold
bath, and died a few days afterwards, to our great regret. Did tella Ia
you that he had been a great deal in China, and gave us an excellent
lecture on `The Chinaman at home,' only month ago? He had                     a
                                            a
                                                aa
promised us another on Japan. We have quite good course of lectures
coming on. Our friend, Lady Low, takes great deal of interest in

them, and    is     most wonderful woman for her age. She has great
                 a

knowledge of Indian affairs, her husband,   Sir John Low, having been
very experienced soldier. Her brother,      Sir Richmond Shakespeare,
1883--1887.]  AWARDED THE "LYELL MEDAL."  275

was the young officer who so bravely rescued the English prisoners
from the Afghans in 1842. She has given' William an account her
brother wrote of one of his earlier expeditions, which quite delighted
him. She often tells us amusing tales about Thackeray, who was her
first cousin. . . ."

     Early in the year 1886 Pengelly received a visit from a

deputation of the Falmouth Polytechnic, asking him to become

President in succession to Lord Mount Edgcumbe. This he
was obliged to decline, though it would have been a great
satisfaction to him to be so closely connected with one of the

Associations of his native county.
     The winter was a bitterly cold one, even in Devonshire.

In February Principal Tulloch died at Torquay, where he had
been staying for some time. Pengelly was one of the very

few people he had been able to see during his illness, and, in
common with all who knew him, much regretted his loss.

     On the 18th of February, Pengelly went up to London and
was presented on the following day with the "Lyell Medal"
of the Geological Society. He received many warm con

gratulations on the occasion, and much enjoyed seeing several
of his old colleagues. The President concluded his speech with
the following words: " There is a peculiar fitness in the award

to you of this medal, as a memorial of the fearless and illus
trious author of `The Principles of Geology' and `The
Antiquity of Man.' " Pengelly, in reply, spoke of the gratifi
cation which this award afforded him, especially as it bore the
name of an old and well loved friend, with whom he had

worked much and earnestly.

     Soon after returning he had the pleasure of meeting Sir
William Gull, who was paying a short visit at Torquay, and in
April his old friends, Sir Joseph and Lady Hooker (who had
then left Kew), also stayed at Torquay and came to see him
and his family. Later in the month Professor W. G. Adams,

who was in the neighbourhood, paid a hasty visit to his fellow

Cornishman, when they both enjoyed talking over old times.
     This summer the Devonshire Association met at St. Mary

Church, an important parish adjoining Torquay. Pengelly, who
had long been the Honorary Acting Treasurer, and in other
ways intimately associated with the work of the Society, now

felt that the time had come when he must relinquish his more
active share in connection with it. The prosperity of the
276                    WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                 [Cm XVIII.

Association bore witness to the soundness of his financial

management, for, both in his public and private affairs, he made
it a rule never to allow expenditure to exceed income.

    In September he attended the meeting of the British
Association at Birmingham, where he read a paper before the

Anthropological Section, entitled "A Scrobicularia Bed con

taining Human Bones at Newton Abbot, Devonshire."
     Leaving Birmingham he proceeded to Falmouth to deliver

a lecture, whilst his wife and daughters were paying visits, and
on Mrs. Pengelly joining him at home wrote thus to his daughter
Lydia :--

"Lamorna, Torquay-- . . . Your nice chatty letter arrived this
morning with the account of your doings and seeings in the Lake
              . . The  Great Chief has duly and safely arrived, and
district. .                                                              as a
matter of    course I  am dethroned. You will be glad to learn that I    bear
it beautifully, and am proud to have reason to believe that I am a
conspicuous example of humility and resignation. Now don't strike me
all of a limp by reminding me of Uriah, and thereby play the Dickens
with me. . . . The upshot       othf amt yI  efforts in the  matter of
History Society's lectures, is               shall have to   give three  the Natural
                                                                         certainly---
four most probably. One of the results of inviting other men to lecture,
Iis that other men ask me to lecture. Mr. Statham has just asked me to

lecture at and for his Parish Guild, and have consented. . . ."

     In November Pengelly went to London that he might be

present at the annual dinner of the Royal Society, and attend a

meeting of the Anthropological Institute, of which he was now a

member.                                      '

     In March, 1887, his valued friend Canon Brownlow"

gave two very interesting lectures at the Torquay Museum, on
" Serfdom," a question to which he had devoted much attention.
His volume on "Slavery and Serfdom in Europe," published

in 1892, is dedicated to Pengelly.

     During the same session Pengelly gave a Lecture at the

Museum, entitled "An old Man and Woman," which was a

graphic account of some pre-historic human remains found near

Newton. The discourse was successful in a marked degree in

arousing attention, and was attended by many old friends from

a distance.

Pengelly entertained the strongest regard for Professor

Tyndall, whom he esteemed second only to Faraday as a

lecturer.

             * Now Roman Catholic Bishop of Clifton.
1883--1887.] BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT MANCHESTER.                      277

                     Pengelly to Dr. Brus/zfiela'.

                          " Lamorna, Torquay, June 26, 1887.
"I beg to say, in reply to your interesting letter of 25th, that it
Iis my intention
Ias my wife and
 to attend           the  Plympton Meeting.         . . . shall go   alone,
daughters            are  going to Switzerland,                       have
                                                    if all be well.

declined an invitation to a private house at Plympton, and shall put up
I Iat the ` George Hotel' there, if can 'be taken in.
Ireturn home on Thursday morning.                      shall probably
                                         propose going to London
to-morrow to assist at the `Tyndall dinner' on Wednesday, the 29th,
Iand to return home on the 30th, when    hope to write the Local
ISecretary at Plympton about the Hotel.  hope it can be managed for
us to be together."

      Most unfortunately Pengelly took a severe cold at the
 Plympton meeting. His family, who had just returned from
 Switzerland, were greatly concerned at the state of his health,
 and feared that he would not be able to attend the British
 Association that year. By the end of August, however, he

 was sufficiently recovered to be present at Manchester. The

 meeting was an unusually large one, and he was so warmly

 welcomed by his colleagues, that he many times expressed the
pleasure he felt that he had not spared himself the exertion of
coming. He was repaid by meeting some friends whom, alas!
he was destined to look upon no more, amongst them being
Dr. Asa Gray, who died the following January, and Professor

John Couch Adams, the astronomer.
      Pengelly read a paper on "Recent Researches in Bench

Cavern, Brixham, Devon," before Section "C," and again
another day before the Anthropological Section, which was

presided over this year by Professor Sayce, of Oxford. It

was at this meeting that he made the acquaintance of Dr.
Moorhouse, Bishop of Manchester, as well as that of the Roman
Catholic Bishop of Salford, now Cardinal Vaughan. Dr. Moor
house and Pengelly were much amused at their non-success in
hearing one another the geologist having spent part of Sunday
in fruitless efforts to find the cathedral, which he only reached

after the conclusion of the bishop's sermon, whilst the latter
was unable to find the room where Pengelly was reading his

Paper 'on Monday morning.
     The next letter gives evidence of his unremitting labour

as Honorary Secretary of the Torquay Natural 'History

Society.
278  \VILLIAM PENGELLY.                                          [CPL XVIII.

     Pengelly to lzis daughter Lydia.

     " Lamorna, Torquay, Ottober 6, 1887.--- . . . Your very acceptable
letter of the 4th inst. duly arrived yesterday.    The reopening of the
College Hall must have been an interesting
                                                 occasion. I have now

completed cataloguing the books from Mr. Lee's Library* (and the
boy has fair copyized my work), but there is'still a host of pamphlets

I Ibound up in, think, seventeen vols., and am now at work on them.
IEach volume contains on an average twenty pamphlets, opine, so the

cataloguing work still before me is by no means slight. Ah! well!
'twill all rub out when it's dry. You remember, no doubt, that our
friend Mr. Ellis informed the Shelley world, through the At/zenwum,
that there was in Mr. Lewin Bowring's possession a manuscript copy
of Shelley's poem, `The Mask of Anarchy '--in other words, the
` Peterloo Massacre at Manchester '---and that the copy differed in sundry
places from the printed copy of the said poem. Mr. Lewin Bowring

called on me at the Museum on Monday last, and told me that he
parted with the MS. to a member of the Shelley Society, and that the
Society had printed a fac-simile `of what had been his MS.,' with an
`Introduction' by H. Buxton Forman. Moreover, he said that six

copies had been sent to him, and as he only needed one, he had brought

Ione for the Natural History Society, and one for me if would accept
Iit. Of course was ` only too happy,' and, to tell the truth, felt it to be
a pretty compliment. You and Hettie may now quarrel as to which of
you shall read it first when you and the book are under the same roof.
Your mother has finished the translation of
                                                 the  Paper  on  the  Belgian
Cavern, and I began to fair copy it last night.
                                                  ..   ."

     * Left to the Library of the Torquay Nat. Hist. Soc.
                         (279)

                          CHAPTER XIX.

                         FAILING POWERS AND DEATH.

                                                                    1888 TO. 1894.

DR. BRUvSHFIELD, Dr. Samuel Smiles and his wife, and Professor
and Mrs. MaxMiiller were at Torquay in the spring. The
Professor went over the Museum there with Pengelly, also
paying him a very pleasant visit at his own house. He was
glad of the opportunity of renewing his acquaintance with Mrs.
MaxMiiller, who had been one of his favourite pupils in former
days.

     About the same time the celebrated pianist, Charles Halle,
accompanied by Madame Norman Neruda, gave one of their
concerts at Torquay, staying there over the Sunday, when
Pengelly and some of his family met them. Pengelly much
enjoyed making the acquaintance of these accomplished inter
preters of the works of the great composers. He had always
taken great pleasure in the society of musicians, and loved music.

After attending the splendid performance of the "Elija " at

the close of the Birmingham meeting of the British Association,
he exclaimed that he would rather have missed the reading of
any paper during the meeting, than failed to hear the Oratorio.

                                     .Mrs. Pengelly to her Sister.

   T" Lamorna, orquay, Mare/z, 1888.-- . . . Dr. Brushfield was here

again lately. William was very glad to see him and 'talk over various
literary matters ; he gave us a very good lecture on ` Obsolete Punishments '
at the Museum. Mr. Stebbing has given us a most entertaining lecture
on the ` Shrimp.' He and Mrs. Stebbing seemed to enjoy meeting
their old friends again very much. We lunched with them at Mr.
Audus Clark's during their visit, and they came to us to meet Sir Jacob
and Miss Behrens, the Watsons, Miss Hughes, who is now here from St.
Asaph, and one or two others.
280                            \VILLIAM PENGELLY.            [Cl-l. XIX.

     "On  SmWieledsne*sdaanyd  afternoon  we went to the Behrens', to meet Dr.
                               his wife.   They are both delightful, so easy, that
Samuel

we became friends at once. They are coming to us to-morrow. We
find they know the family of William's old friend Robert Chambers

very intimately. . . ."

    During the Easter Vacation of 1888, Professor McKenny
Hughes, of Cambridge, stayed a week or two at Torquay, accom
panied by several members of his Class, who were all eager to

see some of the geological features of the district under Pengelly's
guidance. Amongst other expeditions he took them to the
Brixham and Kent's Cavern, and was much pleased to see them
at his own house on Sunday afternoons, and also in the evenings
after their long " Field Days," when they greatly enjoyed show
ing their "finds" to the veteran geologist, whose enthusiasm
for his favourite science remained as keen as ever. The advice

which he had given to a Manchester audience in 1872, he still

continued to impress on all young workers.

     "Be careful in scientific inquiries that you get a sufficient number
of perfectly trustworthy facts, that you interpret them with the aid of

a vigorous logic, that on suitable occasions you have courage enough to

avow your convictions, and don't be impatient or annoyed if your
friends don't receive all your conclusions, or even if they call you hard

names."

     Though still fairly vigorous, he was beginning to feel the
necessity of taking a less active part in scientific matters, than

he had been accustomed to do for many years past.

                               Paige/[y to Dr. Bras/afield.

                                          " Lamorna, Torquay, July 2, 1888.

    "Thank   you very much for your nice chatty letter        of the      I25atmh
             to read in due course your paper on Andrew      Brice.
ult. I hope
taking things easy this year, having sent nothing to the Devonshire
Association, and have no thought of writing anything for the British.

. . . Icongratulate you on the well-deserved compliment paid you by
Ithe Society of Antiquaries.
                                          Having been long an antiquarian student,

may you live to be an antiquarian study. . . . went to Plymouth last
Saturday to assist at the opening of the Marine Biological Laboratory,
and, as our American cousins say, ` had a good time.' Our host on the
occasion was Sir James Clark Lawrence, Prime Warden of the Fish
mongers' Company. . . . He came out as one of the brickiest of bricks.
He fed us well, and spoke to us in excellent terms and manner. May

his shadow never grow less, that is in this latitude."

          * Author of "Self Help," "The Life of George Stephenson," etc.
1888--1894.] LAST ATTENDANCE AT BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 28I

     In August Pengelly started with his family for Matlock Bank,
with the object of enjoying a thorough change and rest before
attending the British Association at Bath in September. During
the meeting he went with Professor Sayce, and some other
members, on an excursion to see the remains at Stanton Drew.
Unfortunately one or two of the party were missing when the
time came for the return drive; this caused so much delay, and
the evening became so bitterly cold, that Pengelly, Professor
Sayce, Mr. Ussher, and some ladies returned to Bath by
train. The result of this exposure was a very severe chill,
which prevented Pengelly from taking any further part in the

meeting.

Professor Sayre lo Mrs. Pengelly.

                                      "Bath, September 14, 1888.

"I Iam very sorry that am not able to come to you this after
Inoon, as have followed Mr. Pengelly's example, and am laid up
Iwith a severe cold . . . and to-day  am confined to the house. A
IBritish Association cold seems to be worse than any other.
                                                             hope

that Mr. Pengelly is recovering by this time."

     Pengelly recovered partially from the cold he had taken, and
left Bath in time to attend the International Geological Congress
in London. There, though unable to attend all the sittings, he
had the pleasure of meeting many foreign geologists of note,
including M. Gaudry of Paris, Professor Capellini of Bologna,
Baron P. von Richtofen of Berlin, Professor Stefanescu of
Bucharest, and his old friends Professor Otto Torell of Stockholm,
Dr. Szabo of Buda-Pesth, and Professor 0. C. Marsh from

America.
     One of the pleasant results of the Congress was an interesting

correspondence between himself and Professor Gaudry. Pen
gelly often looked back on the meeting with fond regret, as

being the last of the many scientific gatherings that he attended
with any enjoyment. His friend Chevalier Dr. Josef Szabo,
the eminent geologist and foremost representative of Magyar
science, outlived him less than a month, dying on April 10,

I894
     The winter of 1888-9 was one of much suffering to Pengelly,

who was troubled with a violent cough. The rheumatism which
had so long affected him also became more painful and acute.
Lectures to working men and before the different Parish
282                     WILLIAM PENGELLY.                                [Ca XIX.

Guilds, etc., which it had been such a pleasure to him to deliver,

had to be abandoned, and it was only once again that his voice
was heard in public. His final Lecture, entitled " Archaological
Discoveries at Hele," was given on April 22, 1889, before the
Torquay Natural History Society, for which he had worked so

long, so ardently, and so unremittingly, without any other
remuneration than the pleasure he found in being of service to

those around him.

     The Rev. T. R. R. Stebbing was a candidate this year for
Fellowship of the Royal Society, and has since been elected.

                        Pengeliy to the Rev. 71 R. K. Stebbing.

"Ibut                         " Lamorna, Torquay, 8.30 p.m., February 9, 1889.

            am    glad   to find your visit to Woodward * was a success ;
                knew    it Would be, for, so far as my knowledge of him goes--
      then I
now of many years' standing--he has never done an unkind thing, nor
                  a kind one when in his power.
Idecli"ned to do  intended that my name should       .   ..           in the list of
 ' always
                                                        be the  last

I Isigna"tPolreieass.e excuse brevity as                         will write Wood
                              am rather busy, but

ward at once."

    As the summer advanced Pengelly enjoyed spending a day
with his old friend, Mr. William Vicary, at Exeter; his health
appeared to improve slightly, and his letters show that he still

retained much of his old vivacity.

                              Pengeliy to his Wife.

                                              " Lamorna, Torquay, June 10, 1889.

      ". . . Yesterday was wet, so Lydia and I stayed at home all day,
Iand had the fires lighted.                                              able to go
                                                                          Meeting,
to the Museum as usual.
                                To-day    is  also wettish, but was
                              At three        started for the Gladstone
                                          I
Iwhen found the Hall very nearly full, but I had a very good seat on
the platform. Gladstone and wife arrived about 3.40. He spoke for
                minutes, as he only can speak      he was   very eloquent and  very
seventy-five                                   I;   didn't   know that wives    are
consecutive,     and very wonderful, and if
never proud of their husbands, Mrs. Gladstone must be very proud of
Ihim. Mr. Morton Spark was Chairman, and did his work modestly

and well. Coming out was a serious job, and made me glad that had
      lady with   me. The     Hall was                                            of
no     being so                           densely   packed, and the      means
exit             atrocious I  was really  thankful   Lydia had been      unable   to

accompany me. . . ."

                        * Henry Woodward, LL.D.
1888--1894.]  ACCLIMATIZATION EXPLAINED.                                                                                           283

              Pengelly to his youngest daughter, Hester.

                                                        "Lamorna, Torquay, July, 1889.

I"Whilst      received your kind interesting letter this morning
I Iwith great pleasure, could not but feel that had not recently written
Iyou, and had not earned the pleasure your letter gave me. You know
    am always busy when preparing for a Monthly Meeting of the
Natural History Society, as was the case this week. Moreover the
preparation was more than usually heavy, on account of G. H. White's
Ihandsome bequest. The meeting passed off satisfactorily, but my
cough   was    very troublesome after     got to         bed that night.    .. .                                                   Being
Sunday        refrained from kicking   my best          hat all the way                                                            Union
         I                                                                down

Street, by way of expressing my joy on finding that we may look for
you this week. But as there is no law against           did say Hurrah,'
              it

                                                      iIt,
                                                                                                                                `
and I'll say again.
"Your Mater and Pater took luncheon. at Mrs. Ormerod's the

other day, and had a most pleasant time. Amongst the guests were
Mrs. and Miss Harley, wife and daughter of my old mathematical
British Association friend, Dr. Harley.                 am glad that you and Miss
Langworthy were so much pleased with your day at Waltham Abbey.is
All your London visits seem to have been, as we expected, most pleasant.
                              ,

                                  it
                                        is

                                                    a

                                      I
A green lizard was seen again on the Rock-Walk close to the spot
              or one of its relatives, was seen years ago. You will have
wheregrid
         it,
heard that these lizards are the descendants of some brought from

Jersey more than forty years ago, and placed on Waldon Hill as an
experiment, and that ever and anon representative of them shows
itself. Now don't you rush to the conclusion that in this we have an
instance of Acclimatization for
                                       nothing of the kind. Acclimatiza
tion--or, as the-word now often written, Acclimatation--understood

scientifically, denotes that treatment which (if such thing be possible)
will change the character of organisms to such an       a                 as to enable
them to live where previously they could not live.              is        clear that no
                                                        extent

                                                         It
                     has occurred in, or was required in, the Torquay green
lsiuzachrdcsh. ange

"Monkeys, left to themselves, would die in England; but by
                                                                                                                                   if

bringing a pair from Gibraltar to the Biscay shores were found they
                                                        it

throve there, and fifty years after pair descended from them were
                     a
                                                    aa
brought to Brittany or the Scilly Isles, and they throve there; and
fifty years after that pair descended from them were taken to Torquay
      they throve, we should have case of Acclimatation. Do you

ollow?"

    At the beginning of August he started with his wife and

daughters fora long change at Scarborough, taking the journey
by easy stages. The bracing air of the north, however, did

him little good, and he made no progress towards recovery.
In September he went to Newcastle, hoping to attend the
British Association, but was much fatigued by the meeting,
and could take but little part in the proceedings. Never again
284                         WILLIAM PENGELLY.                               [CH.XIX.

was his well-known figure to be welcomed by his brother

scientists. The winter at Torquay was enlivened by the visits

of old friends; but he was now only able to take short walks

and a few drives, generally to the Museum, and was compelled

to lead almost entirely the life of an invalid.
    In the spring of 1890, the state of his health compelled him

to resign the Honorary Secretaryship of the Torquay Natural

History Society, the last scientific office which he had held.

Soon after his retirement he was presented, at his residence,

with an illuminated address by a few of his old friends, expres

sing deep regret at his resignation.

       The following letter, in which Pengelly congratulates Mr.

Isaac Roberts upon his election as a Fellow of the Royal

                 believe, the last he ever wrote :--
Society,I
             .
             I iIs,         Pertgelty to Isaae Roberts, F.R.S.
                  I
                      I                          "Lamorna, Torquay, May 1890.
     " . . As                                                               5,
                                       IIsee and read various scientific journals,was
                                                                             I

acquainted with the general character of your remarkable astronomical
discoveries as reported by the Astronomical Society from time to time;
when your most valuable and acceptable present of six of your photo
graphs reached me, was more than delighted. Thank you many thousand
times. As feel that single-handed cannot thank you enough, have
                                                                            I

asked my wife and daughters to assist in the good work, and they have

most     cordially responded.     that  the  Council  of  the   Royal  Society  have
      "     am delighted to see

placed you among the fifteen who are to have the right to affix F.R.S. to
their names. (Sir F. Bramwell says the letters stand for `Fees raised
                     Never  were   laurels more  richly earned than  in your case.
sudd"eAnlnyd.')  now, my    very  dear friend,   must conclude, as   my fingers and

wrist are getting painfully angry."

     Reading still continued to be his greatest pleasure, and,         it,

though during the winter his drives had to be abandoned, the longr

days were cheered for the invalid by visits from his many friends.

Amongst those who frequently came to see him were the Rev.
E. P. Gregg, Mr. F. S. Ellis, and General Chamberlayne, whose
kindness all through his illness was, as he expressed " like that
of a brother."

     In the spring of 1891 Dr. Samuel Smiles was again at
Torquay, but as he unfortunately took cold there, he was unable
to visit Pengelly, to whom he wrote more than once during his

stay.

                                                                                      ease-w".
1838--1894.]        INCREASING INFIRMITIES.                            285

                       Dr. Smile: to Pengelly.

I"      thank  you          " 9, Beacon Terrace, Torquay, February 25, 1891.
                    very much for the volumes you have sent me
Ithrough Miss Pengelly ; and accept the one inscribed by you to myself

Iwith great pleasure.  occupied myself a good deal, principally for
     "Some years ago
Ipleasure, in writing out an account of the origin of the various races of
men who occupy this country.  went to Friesland, the North Frisian
Islands (from which, no doubt, the Anglo-Saxons came), Jutland, the
Danish Islands, Sweden, and Norway, as far as Trondhjem.

    "The first people of all, however, were the Cave Men, and when I
Isaw that you had been making some extraordinary inquiries as to these

pre-historical people, expressed my desire to my daughter to purchase

I Iany treatise you had written on the subject. Now, you have supplied

me with as much as can carry in my head; and will read your

"Itreatisesamwitshorrtyhethgarte,atseinscteplIeacsaumree. down here, I have been obliged to

keep within doors ; otherwise I would have called and paid my sincere

respects to you."

                       Dr. Smile: to Pengelly.

                           " 9, Beacon Terrace, Torquay, March 20, 1891.

   "I return your two volumes, with many thanks. I have read

them through, and taken many notes. What labour you must have had
in going through all the memoirs on the subject of Kent's Cavern, and
unfortunately, you must have martyred yourself in going into that damp
hole so often. You are entitled to take rank amongst Dr. Brewster's

I IMartyrs to Science.                             left. But my wife and
    " I wish had been able to see you before
I have been suffering from very bad colds while here, and we return

home on Tuesday morning."

    In August, 1891, Pengelly had the pleasure of a short visit
from the American geologist, Professor G. F. Wright, of Ohio.

     Throughout the year 1892, he continued almost in the same
state, though his malady rendered him increasingly infirm.
The Meeting of the British Association at Edinburgh interested

him greatly, the President being the distinguished geologist,
Sir Archibald Geikie, whose address he read with the keenest

interest, as well as the reports which his daughters sent him
daily of the proceedings at Sections " C " and " H."

An old friend, a. daughter of the late Robert Chambers, who

came south to see him this year, wrote afterwards to one of his.

daughters :--                                   -

"Iwith   am so glad, my_dear  Hettie,  that   I had   such a pleasant  time
      you at Torquay, and              have,         will preserve, a  most
                              that I           and
286                       WILLIAM PENGELLY.                   [Cm XIX.

delightful recollection of my last meeting with the dear gentle philosopher;
What an example he was of noble Christian resignation. Laid aside as
he was--mentally as strong as ever--only suffering from physical weak
ness. May his example remain with us."

      He was now entirely confined to the house, though able

to sit up and be wheeled into another room during the after

noons. The death of his colleague, Mr. Vivian, who had been

associated with him in so many scientific undertakings, cast a

gloom over the opening of 1893. But the summer was much

brightened, as the Devonshire Association met at Torquay, and

many of the members visited Pengelly, including Dr. Brushfield
                          Bowring, the Rev. W. Harpley,
(the  President),   Lady  Canon Brownlow, and others.    Mr.      Amery,
Mr.   Brooking                                                    greatly
                   Rowe,                                  It

cheered him to see so many of his old friends. In a letter

written to Mrs. Pengelly some time afterwards, Lady Bowring

says, in reference to this visit :--

I" think much of the years gone by, when my own beloved husband
I Iand Mr. Pengelly ever appeared to be so much pleased with each
other's companionship.    am so glad had the pleasure of seeing
your invalid        summer, when he kindly received some of            old
members of    last  Devonshire Association for brief interviews.  the  was
              the
                                                                    I

gratified to be among the visitors."

     Another old friend, whom he had not seen for many years,
Mrs. Vaughan,* also paid him a visit this autumn, 1893,
accompanied by Dr. and Mrs. Charles Vachell, of Cardiff.

    All this time his mind continued as bright as ever. He
greatly enjoyed reading the recently published " Letters of Dr.

Asa Gray," the American botanist, and on March 6th, 1894, saw

for the last time his old friend Prebendary Wolfe. On the day
following be felt feverish and stayed in bed, and the progress
of the attack was very rapid, lasting only ten days. Through
this time of suffering, those who nursed him, never heard him say
an unkind thing, or utter an impatient word. On the morning
of Friday, the 16th of March, he appeared much weaker, but
was able to receive brief visits from his friends General Chamber
layne and the Rev. E. P. Gregg. Both the medical men who
saw him that day, Dr. Huxley and Dr. Hamilton Cumming,

assured his family, that there was no pain, but considered that
the case was one of extreme gravity. Towards evening greater

                   * Wife of the Dean of Llandafi" and sister of Dean Stanley.
1888--1894.]  DEATH AND FUNERAL.                            287

difficulty of breathing and entire unconsciousness followed, and
the struggle with nature continued only a few hours longer.

Just before midnight the end came, and he passed peacefully
away in the presence of his wife and both his daughters, leaving
behind him the memory of one who was able "to bear good
fortune meekly; to suffer evil with constancy; and through
evil or good to maintain truth always."

     On the following Thursday the funeral took place, a service
being held at the parish church of St. Mary Magdalene, Upton,
which was largely attended by people of every shade of religious
thought. The hymns sung were, "Jesu, lover of my soul," his
favourite hymn, and that commencing, " Now the labourer's task
is o'er," as being in this case especially appropriate. The
remains of the geologist were laid to rest in the presence of

his two surviving daughters and a large company of "mourners,
with every token of regard, from the poor as well as the rich.

     The respect shown to his memory on all sides gave eloquent
testimony to the esteem in which an honourable and upright
life, well spent in untiring devotion to study and research, was

held.

     The news of Pengelly's death was received generally with
deep and intense feeling. Letters of sympathy from all parts
of this country, from the Continent, America, and even distant
Australia, reached his family. Many of them are of far too
sacred 2. character to be published, but all bore witness to the

strong affection he inspired, by his nobility of character, his
fearless love of truth, mingled with profound reverence for all

that is held most sacred.
     Clergy and laymen of the Established Church, Presbyterians,

Members of the Society of Friends, Leaders of the various
Nonconformist Bodies, and Roman Catholics agreed with perfect
unanimity in their estimate of his simple though firm faith,
strong moral sense, kindliness and unselfish devotion to the
welfare of others, and freedom from ambition.

     Among scientific men his loss was keenly felt, as will be
shown by the following extracts :--

Reo. Professor Bonney, LL.D., F.R.S., to 1111's. Pengelly.

                          " 23, Denning Road, N.W., March 21, 1894.
"I have seen the sad news in the papers, and must write a few
Ilines to say how deeply  sympathize with you and your family in

this sorrow.
288                                  WILLIAM PENGELLY.                            [CPL XIX.

     " All  who   had the privilege of   knowing your late        husband must       feel
            that                        a gap which cannot         be filled.
     I do,        his departure leaves
Ias
      "Never have met with a man who united such strong mental
powers, and no less strong sense of what was just, true, and right, to
such genuine humour and hearty enjoyment of wit. That was the
great charm in his personality. He was so kindly and pleasant a
companion, and yet so vigorous, mentally, and strong, morally. When
he was obliged to cease from coming to the British Association, we all
felt the difference his absence made. There was at once a sense of

something missing. He came everywhere like a ray of sunshine. I
Itrust his parting from earth was painless and peaceful, and that he fell

asleep. From bodily pain he might have suffered but, feel sure he
would be held up in crossing the dark water by the Saviour in whom
he had long put his trust. He has left, as a legacy to all his friends, the

Imemory of a well-spent life, and a good example. Though doubt
Inot that his life on earth must have been a happy one, yet hope
and trust that now he has entered into a more perfect peace, and an

unchanging joy."

                  Sir Are/libalri Gez'kie * to Mrs. Pengelly
                                      " 28, Jermyn St., London, S. W., March 3!, 1394.

     I"On my return to London, after an absence of some weeks, am
Imuch grieved to hear of the great loss which has fallen upon you,

and desire to offer you my sincere sympathy. Mr. Pengelly's death
has aroused so wide a feeling of regret, that it must be some slight
consolation to you to have proofs of how universally he was respected
Iand esteemed.
                  can remember him and his bright lectures at the
IBritish Association for almost as many years as have attended the

meetings.
     "His genial, kindly, and helpful nature, and his invariably bright,
                                     marked him out as   a man
chee"ryH, isanddewatihttymtuaslkt ,  be a very sad blow          by himself.
                                                         to you           fIamkinlyo,wanhdowI
feel deep sympathy for you, and all the                   more   and the
                                                                 because

entirely he deserved to be loved and honoured."

        EHofessor Rupert/ones, ER.S., G.S., to Mrs. Pengelly.

                                                                  " March 31, 1894.
     I" We are all very sorry to know of your great loss, and sympathize
with    you   all. had been asked       to give          I  some   information     about
your    dear  husband's life and work,    since              had  known him       for so

long, and had always appreciated and admired his mental and bodily
exertions in the pursuit of knowledge--and so successful a pursuit too,--
     I
but     requested a younger          geologist to  undertake     the work. .   .   .
     "  Mr. Pengelly will be         remembered    as a good     example of   a
                                                                                  religious
man--earnest, persevering, and exact in scientific research, highly
esteemed and appreciated in his own generation, especially by his
fellow workers, his work having been carried on in pleasant unison with

        * Director-General of the Geological Surveys of the United Kingdom.
1888--1894.]  A WELL-SPENT LIFE.                                        289

others, and being too good to die away, as has happened with others,
and be forgotten for a while until subsequent discoveries had made it

important. . . .

     "We shall always remember his cheery way and his genial

remarks. . . ."

              Dr. Mmro, F.R.S.E., to 2111's. Pengelly.

                           "48, Manor Place, Edinburgh, April 3, 1894.

     "It is only a few days ago that a pang of regret and sorrow
passed through the heart of the scientific world with the death of your
husband. Knowing that during his active lifetime he had a wide circle
Iof scientific friends, and that letters of condolence would be pouring in

upon you from far and near, did not think that my slight personal
acquaintance with him entitled me to trouble you with formal.
expressions of sympathy in your sad bereavement. The receipt of a
paper containing such an appreciative notice of our late distinguished

I Ianthropologist, affords me now a fitting occasion to do so, and to
express to you how highly esteem and value his works.   am much

pleased to have this little biographical souvenir of Mr. Pengelly. . . .

I trust, however, it is but the prelude to a more extended biography--
one that will be worthy of so conspicuous a leader among the founders
of the Science of Anthropology."  '

Rev. Rofier! Harle , MA., RIBS, F.R.A.S., to 1112'" Hkrz`er Pengelly.

     I " April 2, 1894.
   I" I heard of the death of your dear father with sincere regret. He

and were admitted to the Royal Society at the same time, namely,
in June, 1863 ; the fifteen that year were :----(I) E. W. Cooke, A.R.A.;
     PWJ.a.rRrCy. r;oHo(i1nk0ed)s;;W(.(73)P) eCJn..gFWeell.rygM;ues(rs1roi1fin)e; lHd(;4. )S(.F8.)RFoPsireoclfodees;;so(r(51)2D)R. eROve.lviv.Re.Gr;.HSaa(r9llm)eyoFn.;
(2)
(6)
W.

(now Provost of T.C.D.) ,' (13) S. J. A. Salter; (14) Rev. A. P. Stanley,
Dean of Westminster; (15) C01. F. M. E. Wilmot. Of these, no fewer
Ithan                      4, 7, 10, 14 and 15, have now passed away.
                           often met your father at the Meetings of the
      "
     seven, namely, 1, 3,
     As you are aware,
British Association, and he was my guest on the occasion of his coming
Ito lecture before the Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Leicester, when
                                                                        was
President. A charming guest we found him, as full of humour as of

scien"tiIfichakdnonwo leadcgqeu.aintance with his special subject, but whenever we
met we found that we had many points of contact; for Mr. Pengelly
was not a mere geologist. He did not obtrude his theological opinions,
but it was easy to perceive that he was a man of true religious character ;
this was shown in his exemplary and upright life. Many will mourn his
death, and to you and Mrs. Pengelly and your sister, the loss is
              Yet he had attained ` a good old age,' and you could not
irreparable.
be altogether unprepared for the event. His was a long, honoured, and
useful life. And now at length--

              \U
290                     WILLIAM I`ENGELLY.                                   ` [CH. XIX.

                                             " He's free,

                    Leaving his outgrown shell
                    By life's unresting sea."

              Sir [asap/z Lister-*5 10 1112's: Hester Pengelly.

                                                        " 12, Park Crescent, Portland Place.

     " In years gone by I had often the privilege of intercourse with

     father.
     Looking
Iyour"                                            recall vividly the impression of his
              back  to  those              times

great intellectual powers, his genial benevolence, and his sparkling

hum"ouTrh. e importance of his contributions to geology and pre-eminently
of his acutely planned and perseveringly conducted cave explorations, is

reco"gnIizcehderitshhrohuigshomuetmtohrey  scientific world.   admiration."
                                            with aflectionate

     " President of the Royal Society. Now Lord Lister.
                                                                      '4!

(291)

                     THE SCIENTIFIC WORK OF

     WILLIAM PENGELLY, F.R.S.

               Br PROF. T. G. BONNEY, D.Sc., LL.D., F.R.S.

THE scientific work of Pengelly's long and industrious life, though
it admits of sub-division, is connected by a common thread.
His duties, his occupations, perhaps also his inclination, prevented

him from ranging far afield, and his eminently practical mind
prompted him to take up the tasks which lay ready to hand.

Bornin Cornwall, spending his life in Devon, he devoted him
self to studying the geology of south-western Britain, so that his
scientific papers, almost without exception, deal with topics
which either form part of that subject or arise directly from it.
These papers, however, may be separated into three groups----
each relating to a particular line of work. One describes the
investigation of the Bovey Tracey deposits; another is con
cerned with the examination of caves ; and the third includes a
number of miscellaneous geological 'studies of the south-western
district. A further link may be found between the first and the
second, for though the work was different in character and lay
in separate fields, yet it brings into strong relief that spirit of
conscientious investigation, and that patience in the accumula
tion of facts, which especially characterized Pengelly as a man
of science. This it was which most impressed those who came
to know him, perhaps because it seemed almost abnormal.
One could hardly believe it possible that this witty, light-hearted,
almost jovial man, could be identical with the patient and un
wearied explorer, who had been toiling hour after hour, day after
day, in the dark recesses of a cavern, systematically removing the
292 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

débrz's layer by layer, sifting the earth, collecting the contents,
exactly labelling each specimen, recording every detail, leaving
nothing to chance and no loophole for mistake, as he accumulated
a mass of facts, which would be imperishable, whatever might
be the fate of the inductions framed either by himself or by

others.

     So, in endeavouring to give, in accordance with the request
of his nearest relations, some idea of Pengelly's labours and

contributions to geological knowledge, I shall follow the order

already indicated, and deal successively with these three topics.

I take first the work at Bovey Tracey,* which was also the

first to be completed of Pengelly's larger tasks, and was thus
the earliest demonstration of his peculiar fitness for that ex
ploratory work with which his name will be ever associated.

     Bovey Tracey is a small Devonshire town, just at the foot

of Dartmoor and rather near its north-eastern end. It stands on

the left bank of the Bovey, about two and a half miles above the
spot where this river joins the Teign, at the head of an almost
level expanse which extends in a south-easterly direction to the
distance of about six miles, with a maximum breadth of about
four, not reckoning a narrow prolongation of about a mile and
a half towards the south. The aspect of this plain suggests that
it is the bed of an ancient lake, an idea which is confirmed by
an examination of its deposits. To the west and north-west of
this flat basin rises the lofty mass of Dartmoor with its granite
tors, on the north "the trappean elevations of Hennock," on the
north-east and east are the Haldon Hills, capped by outlying
patches of cretaceous rocks, and to the south the rolling uplands
which separate the district from the sea. The portion of the
plain adjacent to the town goes by the name of Bovey Heath

field. It had been long known that the basin contained a series
of deposits very different from the solid rocks of the surrounding

hills. First came a few feet of coarse gravel, sand, and clay,
beneath which--much thicker and considerably more ancient--
were other sands and clays, very distinctly stratified, containing
saams of lignite. This material for many years past had been
worked`l' ; the most important of the excavations being that

   T" The account is condensed from Pengelly's paper, P/lildrop/zzkal Tmnrarz'z'anr,

1862, part ii. (separately published with a prefatory memoir), and ransactionr q/ the
Devonshire Arrariation, 1862, p. 29.

     1- At least a century and a half, according to the historical evidence collected in
the prefatory memoir already mentioned.
THE LIGNITE-BEDS OF BOVEY.  293

known as the " Coal pit," situated on the " Heathfield," about a

mile from the town and from the western margin of the basin.
     This, at the time of Pengelly's investigation, was an open

work, nearly 1000 feet long, about 340 feet wide, and 100 feet
deep, from which subterranean galleries were carried into the
mass, sometimes to a considerable distance, one of them being
not much less than 400 yards in length. The clay and the
lignite were used in the local potteries, the unpleasant odour
of the latter material making it unsuitable for domestic

purposes.
     The pits had attracted some notice prior to 1860, and the

deposits had been more than once mentioned in scientific
literature; but though a pine-cone and a few seeds had been
found, very little had been ascertained as to the geological age
of the lignitic group. On the whole, however, there was a dis
position to regard it as later than the Pliocene period. So

matters stood in the year just named, when the late Dr. Falconer
brought the subject under the notice of Miss (now Baroness)
Burdett--Coutts, as one the investigation of which would be a
boon to science. She, "with characteristic liberality," provided
the means for Pengelly to undertake the task. He secured the
services of Mr. H. Keeping, then living in the Isle of Wight,
and known as a most experienced collector of fossils, and
the proprietor of the works (John Divett, Esq.) promptly and
cordially co-operated in carrying out the investigation.

     The object was twofold, viz. to obtain a complete and
carefully measured section of the beds which formed the Bovey
deposit, and to collect as many fossils as possible, in the hope
of placing its geological age beyond all question. In order to
accomplish both these, " it was decided to make a fresh section ;
in fact, to cut out a series of steps, on a large scale, by which to
descend the face of the artificial cliff [of the `coal pit '] from top
to bottom." This would disclose the exact nature, thickness, and

order of the successive beds, would afford good opportunities

for collecting fossils, and would determine the exact position
in which each specimen occurred. By this means it was clearly
demonstrated that the upper portion--a mass generally a little

more than seven feet in thickness--was very different and quite
distinct from the remaining and large part, the beds in which
did not lie horizontally, but dipped at an angle of 12$o to a
point 35° west of south (magnetic). The excavation was carried
294 \VILLIAM PENGELLY.

to a depth of full 125    feet, down to the bottom of a seam of
lignite four feet thick,  the " last bed " of the workmen. This,

however, does not form the actual base of the Bovey deposit,

but is simply the lowest bed which was quarried in the great

excavation, and thus was accessible by the method of working

which the explorers had adopted.

Mr. Divett stated that he had once sunk a shaft to a depth

of about I 3 feet below the bottom of the pit, and had cut two
tolerable beds of "coal." Moreover, the topmost bed in the

excavation was not the highest in the deposit, as was evident

from the direction in which the beds were dipping, so that,

altogether, Pengelly estimates the whole thickness as exceeding
210 feet. In order to confirm the succession of beds which had

been disclosed by the principal section, two others were made,

both of them in the south wall of the excavation, one about

460 feet, the other 680 feet eastward from it. The nature of the
ground prevented the explorers from carrying either of these

cuttings in a satisfactory manner to much more than half the

depth of the main section ; but, so far as they went, they failed
to reveal any differences of importance. No remains of animals,

whether vertebrate or invertebrate, were discovered, excepting

a few fragments of the elytra of beetles; but a considerable

number of plants were obtained. These were sent to Professor

Oswald Heer, of Ziirich, whose report is associated with Pengelly's

paper in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Sooz'ezfy.
     The upper part, or "Head," in the section of the Bovey Tracey

basin, differs much in character from the main or underlying

mass, which it covers unconformably. At the top usually come

a few inches of peat, which is succeeded by a fine white sand, and

this by a mass of sand with clay, rather irregularly interstratified.

At the bottom comes a sandy clay, containing rock fragments,

which are usually angular and subangular, and are sometimes

rather more than a foot in diameter. These evidently have been

derived from the neighbouring hills. On the western side of

the basin they are mostly granite, or fragments of the rocks

through which it has been extruded. On the eastern side, flint

and chert from the cretaceous strata, as might be expected,

become more common. This "Head" was generally unfossili

ferous, but some leaves were found in one of the clays. Among

these Professor Heer recognized the willow--perhaps three

species, one being Salz'x cinema, another probably 5. repairs,--
FOSSIL PLANTS.  295

  and the dwarf birch Betu/a nana, which still lingers in the

  Scottish Highlands, and is so common in more arctic regions.
' These plants fully confirmed the idea which had been suggested

  by the rock-fragments just mentioned, viz. that the "Head"
  had been formed when the climate of Devonshire was much

  colder than it is at the present day, and ought, therefore, to be
  referred to some part of the so-called glacial epoch. This dis

  covery at Bovey Tracey is especially interesting, because traces
  of that epoch are so rare in the south-west of England.

       The underlying deposit, which, as already stated, is evidently
  much the older of the two, yielded a far more ample series of
  plant-remains, which, however, were not to be obtained from all
 the beds. The mass consisted, for a thickness of about seventy
 two feet in descending, of beds of clay, lignite, and sand; the
 last, though one layer was thicker than any of the other deposits,
 being the least common. The remainder of the mass was
 formed of clay and lignite only, and the whole was free from
 stones. Thirty-one beds of lignite were cut through in the

 principal section, varying in thickness from a few inches to
 rather more than six feet. Thirteen of these yielded distin

 guishable plant-remains, and these were also obtained from two

 of the beds of clay. From the collection, which was sent to him,
 Professor Heer determined fifty species ; among these were ferns,
 conifers, figs, cinnamon trees, an oak and a laurel, with vines,

 andromedas, a bilberry, a gardenia, a water-lily and sundry

 leguminous plants--the commonest specimens being a fern,
 Peoopterz's lignitumf and a conifer, Sequoia Couttsz'w. Professor
 Heer, as the result of his examination, referred the lignitic group
 of Bovey Tracey to the Lower Miocene period.j' The flora
 approximated most nearly, in his opinion, to those of Manosque
 in Provence, and of Salzhausen in the Wetterau, and it had

 eleven species in common with the Aquitanien of Switzerland.
 Of late years, however, the correctness of his inference has been
 disputed, but with the result of adding to rather than taking
 from the interest of the deposit, for Mr. J. Starkie Gardner,
 whose investigations into fossil plants of Tertiary age are so

 well known, regards the Bovey Tracey flora as contemporaneous
 with that found at Bournemouth--that is to say, of Middle
 Bagshot age ; but he points out that when Professor Heer wrote,

      " Referred afterwards by Gardner and Ettingshausen to the genus Osmuna'a.
      1` Or the upper part of the Oligocene period, according to the more modern
 nomenclature.
296 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

"no Eocene floras of any extent had been described and

scarcely any material existed for com'parison, except what was
of Miocene age . . . it appears to me that in the then state
of knowledge regarding these Tertiary floras he could hardly
avoid classing the Bovey beds with the Miocene." *

We proceed next to the second section of Pengelly's

scientific work, the exploration of ossiferous caves. The Brixham

cave was discovered in January, 1858, in extending a quarry on

the slope of the hill which rises on the southern shore of Torbay
above the small fishing town of the same name. The owner of

this quarry had carried the excavation far enough to show that
the cave had several branches, and that it contained bones, both

on the surface of the stalagmite with which the floor was

covered and in the red loam below it. Shortly afterwards,

Pengelly visited the place in company with Dr. Falconer; and

the latter, on his return to London, addressed a letter to the

Geological Society, urging them to undertake the exploration

of this new and untouched ossiferous cavern. That Society,

however, did not possess any funds which were legally applicable
to such a purpose; but its Council brought the matter under

the notice of the Royal Society (which was more fortunately
situated), and received from it a grant of £100 in aid of the
Aexploration.
               second grant to the same amount was after

wards made, £50 was given by Miss Burdett-Coutts, and £5
each by Sir 1. Kay Shuttleworth and Mr. R. Arthlington. For
the purpose of directing the investigation, a committee of the

Geological Society was formed, consisting of Dr. Falconer (as

Chairman and Secretary), Mr. I. Prestwich, Mr. Pengelly, Prof.
A. Ramsay, Sir C. Lyell, Mr. Godwin-Austen, Mr. G. Busk,

Dr. Percy, Prof. R. Owen, Rev. R. Everest, Mr. Beccles, and

the President and Secretaries of the Society, while a Torquay
sub-committee, composed of Mr. Pengelly, Mr. E. Vivian, Mr.

Stewart, Colonel Thoresby, Mr. Sheppard, and Mr. Hogg, was

deputed by the London committee to co-operate with them

and to superintend the actual investigation of the cave. But

as the report on the exploration says, "It is to Mr. Pengelly

that the Committee are indebted for the active and constant

superintendence of the work and for the record of each day's
proceedings. [He] in fact, saw personally to the execution of

    * "British Eocene Flora," p. 19, Ale/noirr 0f the Palrzanlagrap/iiral Society,
vol. xxiii. (I879).
                     THE BRIXHAM CAVE.                       297

the whole work, noted all the physical features, and arranged
and tabulated all the specimens found in the cave, devoting to
the investigation an amount of care and time without which it

would have been impossible for the London Committee to have

obtained the exact record," which was presented and read to

the Royal Society.*
    Windmill Hill, on the north-western angle of which the cave

is situated, rises to a height of 175 feet above the ordnance
datum. The entrance of the cave is about 94 feet above this
level, or about 66 feet above the floor of the valley in front of
it. The-rock is an impure, thin-bedded limestone, belonging

to the middle part of the Devonian System ; the district around

is generally free from all superficial deposits, except occasionally

small depressed patches of sand and gravel, which also some

times fill narrow fissures in the limestone and extend to con
Asiderable depths.
                     red 10am also caps most of the limestone
hills. A raised beach on a neighbouring hill, about 30 feet

above the sea, is an indication that at a comparatively recent

epoch the land was at a distinctly lower level than it is at the

present day.

     The cave is really a group of enlarged fissures, which cross
one another roughly at right angles. The principal entrance

faces almost magnetic north, and leads into a long gallery,

running southwards, on the eastern side of which (near the
entrance) is a narrow nearly parallel corridor, some few yards
long. Close to the junction of this another gallery extends

eastward for about the same distance, and then, in about a dozen

yards farther, the main gallery throws off a larger branch towards

the west. On the southern side of the latter come two short

fissures, followed by one of considerable size and length, which
leads into an irregular shaped chamber, communicating by two

apertures with the outer air. The aforesaid branch gallery termi

nates in a kind of chamber, in which also are two openings, and is

crossed by the fissure just named, which is prolonged towards
the north, till it joins another one leading back into the western

branch, opposite to the second of the small fissures mentioned

above. All these, as Pengelly points out, resolve themselves

into two sets or systems, which strictly agree with corresponding

bearings of the joints in the Devonian rocks of the district.

Ta
  * P/zilorop/zieal    rumor/ions,  clxiii. (1875), p. 483.   A view of the entrance  and
plan of the cave,    with sections  and other figures, are
                                                             given in this paper.
298 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

The galleries are usually from 6 to 8 feet in greatest width
and from 10 to 14 feet in height, and they lie within a space
measuring 135 feet from north to south and 100 feet from east
to west. The large gallery, leading from the northern entrance,
over almost its whole extent, and a part of the great western
branch-gallery, were floored with a mass of stalagmite, extending
horizontally from wall to wall, the thickness of which varied
from about a foot downwards. Beneath this came the detrital

accumulations. These, in other parts of the cave, were not

covered by stalagmite, and they sometimes filled a fissure up to
the level of its roof. They proved on examination to be Separable
into four beds. The first and second, a breccia of small angular
fragments of limestone and an underlying layer of blackish
matter, were restricted to the neighbourhood of the northern
entrance, and were found to be of minor importance; but the
third and fourth extended practically thoughout the cave. Of
these two, the former (commonly from two to four feet in thick

ness) was a reddish-brown tenacious clayey loam, containing

many angular fragments of limestone, of all sizes from very
small bits to masses even a ton in weight, together with
occasional fragments of stalagmite, nodules of brown iron-stone,
and (more frequently) pebbles of various rocks. The latter
(fourth) bed was a gravel, mainly consisting "of pebbles of
different kinds of rock, quartz, greenstone, grit, and limestone--
mixed with small fragments of shale common in the Brixham
district." The depth of this gravel varied; it was seldom less
than six feet, often more, and the bottom frequently was not
reached, owing to the contraction of the sides of the fissure.

     The floor of the cavern was excavated in successive stages 0r
layers, starting from the entrance, so as to avoid the risk of

confounding together the remains which occurred at different
levels in the deposit; a risk against which due precaution had
not been taken in some previous explorations of caves. Bones
were found both in the stalagmite and in the first, third, and
fourth beds, and worked flints in the third and fourth beds only;
but where the third bed filled the cavern up to the roof, its upper

portion contained neither bones nor fiints. It yielded, however,

in the three principal branches of the cavern, I 7 flints and 998
bones. "Two of the former, or about 12 per cent., were nine
inches deep in the bed, while the remainder were at lower levels.
Of the latter, on the contrary, as many as 372, or 37 per cent.,
          BONES IN BRIXHAM CAVE.                        299

were above the level of the highest flint, and were covered by the
overlying stalagmite, in which were found remains of the cave
bear and reindeer. Of the 1621 bones and 36 flints found in
the cavern, 7 of the former and 16 of the latter were met with
in the fourth or gravel bed."

     The cavern was less rich in articles of human workmanship

than in the bones of animals. The former were examined and

reported upon by Mr. (now Sir) J. Evans. Most of them are

flakes, some of which possibly might not be artificial ; but there

are three fairly well-made implements of Palaeolithic type. It

is therefore certain that man either frequented, or at any rate

sometimes entered, the Brixham cave while Devonshire was

inhabited by various mammals which are now extinct. The

following is a summary of the bones and fragments which were

identified by the late Mr. G. Busk :--  II specimens.
       Mammoth (Elephas prz'ngem'us)
Rhinoceros (R. tichorhz'nus)
Horse (Equus taballus)                    67        ,,
Urus (Bos prz'r/zzgenius)*                30        ,,
Red deer (Cervus elaphus)                 28        ,,
Reindeer (C. tarana'us)                   12        ,,
Roebuck (Capreolus tapreolus)             72        .,
                                          13        ,,
Cave-lion (Feh's spelaza)                           .,
(HHyaena                                    9       ,,
          eroeuta)                        57
Cave-bear ( Ursus speheus)                          ,,
                              j         354
Brown bear (U arctos)                               ,,
Grizzly bear ( U. ferox)      5           15
Fox (Cam`s waffles)

Besides these, some bones of birds and small mammals were

found, among which were identified the hare (Lepus tz'mz'dus),
the rabbit (L. ounz'eulus), the lemming (Lagomys spelaeus), the
water-vole (A rm'eola amphihius), and the shrew (Sorex vulgaris).
The bones of the following animals--mammoth, rhinoceros, ox,
red deer, reindeer, roe deer and bear, in some instances had been

gnawed, almost certainly by hyaenas.
     Mr. Busk remarks that the remains of the rhinoceros were

far more numerous and increased in number in proportion to

the distance from the entrance, so that they probably had been
dragged into the deeper recesses of the cavern to be devoured

by hymnas or by some other carnivora. It appeared also that,

in more than one case, the limbs of the horse had been carried

in, while the bones were still held together by the soft parts.

* Including probably some bones of Bo: longifrons.
300 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

In the case of the hyzenas, teeth preponderated ; and like the
remains of the lion, a large proportion of the specimens were
buried deep in the cave-earth, and became more rare near the
surface; the remains of bears were frequent at some depth,

but they were also numerous on its surface and in the stalagmite.
     The deposits in the cavern evidently indicate the occurrence

of changes in its physical history. The gravel must have been
brought in by a stream which had flowed over the slates, grits,
and shales, on the western side of Brixham, entering by the
aperture on that side and passing out by the northern entrance.
The bone-earth indicates a change in the hydrographical condi
tion of the district, and it was apparently introduced, not by the
western, but by the northern entrance. Prior to this, however,
the cave probably was undisturbed for a considerable period,
during which a bed of stalagmite was formed, and this afterwards
was broken up by the new irruption of water. Professor
Prestwich considered it probable that at this epoch the cave was
generally dry, but was sometimes flooded by a swollen stream
which usually flowed at a level rather below that of the entrance ;
and that during the dry intervals the cave was frequented by
carnivora, while, during the flooding, the relics of their meals
were covered up and imbedded in the sediment with which the
waters were charged. As the deposit of cave-earth is examined
upwards from its lowest part, the remains of elephant, rhinoceros,
and lion gradually disappear; those of the hyaena become less

common, while those of the bear increase largely in number. At

this time the common brown bear seems to have made the cave
a place of habitual resort, and as numbers of bones, including
those of very young cubs, are found together, and are not gnawed,
 it may be inferred that the hyxna had by that time ceased to

 frequent its recesses.
      Such, then, was the history of the excavation of Brixham

 Cave. The results proved that in Devonshire a race of men, in
 a low stage of civilization, had been contemporaneous with a fauna
 which has now disappeared from Britain, and, in some cases, is
 actually extinct.

      \/Ve proceed next to the most laborious scientific under?
 taking of Pengelly's life--the exploration of Kent's Cavern or
 Kent's Hole" This cave, about a mile due east from Torquay

      * The Reports of the Committee appointed for this purpose by the British
  Association are published in the annual volumes of that Association from 1865 to
                             KENT'S CAVERN.                                        301

Harbour, occurs in a small wooded limestone hill on the western

side of a valley, which terminates, about half a mile southward,
on the northern shore of Torbay ; this limestone belonging to the
middle of the Devonian system. The cavern has two entrances,
about fifty-four feet apart, in the face of one and the same
low, vertical, natural cliff, running nearly north and south, on
the eastern side of the hill. Each of these entrances is about

six feet in height, and rather more in width, so as to afford an
easy access to the cavern. The base of the northern entrance,

which, however, is formed by de'orz's, not by live rock, is

about 189 feet above mean-tide level, and the base of the
southern one is nearly four feet lower.

      The existence of Kent's Hole has been known from time

immemorial ; but the first exploration, of which any record has
been preserved, was made in 1824. This was undertaken by a
Mr. Northmore, of Cleve, near Exeter, who visited the cavern
with the double object, as he stated, "of discovering organic
 remains, and of ascertaining the existence of a Temple of
 Mithras," with the result that, as he was "happy to say," he
was "successful in both objects."* He was speedily followed
by Mr. (afterwards Sir) W. C. Trevelyan, who is said to have
been the first to obtain any results of value to science.1' The

 Rev. J. MacEnery, whose name will be always inseparably

 associated with the cavern, first entered it in the summer of

 1825. It was also his first visit to any such place ; nevertheless,

 he made an examination in what he conjectured to be a favour

 able spot, and to his great joy discovered several teeth and
 bones. For about four years he prosecuted his researches
 with much energy; his last visit apparently being on August
 14, 1829. During this time he was in communication with
 Dr. Buckland and other geologists, and he intended to publish
 a narrative of his investigations, going so far as to arrange for
 the necessary illustrations; but his intention was ultimately
 abandoned, and for some years after his death it was feared

 that his manuscript had been lost. At last, however, it was

 recovered, and has been printed entire in the Transactions

1880, and     are reprinted   with prefatory remarks by Pengelly in      oTfraKnemnte'slionCraveorfnt,h"e
Devonshire     Association,
                             vol. xvi. pp. 189--434 ("The Literature
Tpart*v.O).f   The account given above is  condensed    from the latter  source.
              this gentleman's published   researches,   an account is   given by  Pengelly  in

the ranraelion: of tire Devonshire Associalz'on, vol. ii. pp. 479--49 5.
1- 1611, vol. iii. p. 207; vol. vi. p. 52; vol. x. p. 145.
302 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

of the Dawns/lire Association.` For this work also, which
obviously must have been one of very considerable and some

times rather tedious labour, we are indebted to Pengelly.

MacEnery clearly proved that the cavern had been inhabited,

practically at the same time, by man and by various extinct

mammals; but his discovery passed unnoticed, for the recent

origin of man was at that time almost universally accepted as

an article of belief, and geologists do not always rise superior

to the weaknesses of human nature, one of which is a tendency

to ignore unwelcome facts.

    Some investigations were made in 1840, by Mr. R. A. C.

Austen (afterwards    Godwin-Austen), and the results                                                                 were
described in a paper  on the " Bone Caves of Devonshire,"                                                             read

to the Geological Society of London.1' Again, in 1846, a
committee, consisting of Mr. Pengelly, Mr. Vivian, and Dr.

Battersby, was appointed by the Torquay Natural History
Society to explore a small portion of the cave. The results of

their investigations were communicated to their own society}

and to the Geological Society of London.§ An account of all

these earlier investigations--the literature, in fact, of Kent's

Cavern anterior to 1865--has been given by Pengelly, with his
usual patient care, in the pages of the Transactions of the

Downs/lire A ssooiation. I]

     These investigations, though perhaps none of them were con

ducted with that strict observance of method which is now

regarded as necessary, proved that the flint "implements" and

the remains of extinct animals did occur together in the same
deposits. Then, " in 1858, the results of the systematic and

careful exploration of Brixham Cavern on the opposite shore of

Torbay, induced the scientific world to suspect that the alleged

discoveries which, from time to time during a quarter of a

century, had been reported from Kent's Hole, might, after all,

be entitled to a place among the verities of science." From

that time various proposals were made for the further investigation

of Kent's Hole. Communications passed between Pengelly and

Sir C. Lyell, and finally, at the meeting of the British Association

at Bath, a Committee was appointed for the systematic exploration

* Vol. iii. pp. 196--482, where also the history of the manuscript is given.
T1' Proc. 6201. Soc., vol. iii. p. 286.

31 Printed in ransactions oft/1e Devonshire Associalz'on, vol. x. p. 162.
    "QuThaert.Lfaituerra.tuGreeol.ofSKoenn, t'vsol.Caiivi.erpn.,"35p3a. rts i.-iv.,
§                                                                                    in vols.  ii.  iii.  iv. and x.
ll
   KENT's CAVERN EXPLORED.                                    303

   of the cavern, and a sum of £ 100 was granted for that purpose

   by the Association. That Committee consisted of Sir C. Lyell,

   Mr. (now Sir) J. Evans, Mr. (now Sir) J. Lubbock, Professor

   Phillips, Mr. E. Vivian, and Mr. W. Pengelly (as Secretary and
   Reporter). To it the following were afterwards added: Mr. G.

   Busk in 1866, Mr. W. Boyd Dawkins in 1868, Mr. W. A. Sanford
   in 1869, and Mr. J. E. Lee in 1873. The proprietor of the cave,
   Sir L. Palk (afterwards Lord Haldon), most kindly placed it in
   the exclusive custody of the Committee, and afforded them every

   facility in carrying on the work, which was commenced on

   March 28, 1865.
        The cavern consists of a number of chambers or galleries, to

   which names had been given by earlier visitors, or were assigned

   by the Committee for purposes of reference. These chambers

   may be regarded as forming two divisions, an eastern and

   a western, with two external entrances, a northern and a

   southern, each leading into the eastern division. "The northern
   entrance opens, through a short narrow passage, into a somewhat

   spacious chamber termed the Vestibule, measuring about 30 feet
   from north to south and 35 from east to west. From the north
   western angle of the Vestibule, a gallery about 32 feet long and
   ranging from 6 to 14 feet broad, extends north-easterly, and is
   known as the North-East Gallery. The Vestibule opens on its

   southern side into what is appropriately termed the Sloping

   Chamber, about 70 feet in extreme length from east to west, and
   34 in greatest breadth."" From the south-east angle of the
   Sloping Chamber, a passage, about 22 feet long and from 19 to 27
   feet broad, called the "Passage of Urns," leads southward into the

`  "Great Chamber" of the eastern     division, and a second   passage
   was found at a later stage of the  work connecting this    with the

   western division. The Great Chamber leads southward into

   another, measuring about 40 feet from north to south and 26
   from east to west. This was named the Lecture Hall, since a

   member of the Committee had occasionally delivered addresses

   in it. From each of those chambers, narrow branches, apparently

   parallel, lead`in a south-easterly direction, and a passage opens
   southwards from the Lecture Hall, which is about 17 feet wide
   and 50 feet long.

        Though large portions of the deposits in Kent's Hole had

   been broken up by Mr. MacEnery and other investigators, very

   "' Trans. Dev. Arson, vol. xvi. p. 215.
304 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

much ground still remained intact. The Committee selected
for their first attempt a part of the cavern--the Great Chamber
--which not only was in this condition, but also seemed likely
to present no very serious difficulties in exploration. The
material which had been dug up by their predecessors had not
been removed from the cavern, but had been simply thrown on
one side; thus it added considerably to the difficulties of the
task, and tended to mix remains from more than one level.

All this material was now removed and subjected to a careful

examination, with the result that several interesting mammalian
remains were discovered. That which occupied the floor of the
cave was found generally to exhibit the following succession
(1) Blocks of limestone, sometimes large, clearly fallen from the
roof; (2) a layer of mould of an almost black colour, ranging
from a few inches to upwards of a foot in--depth, called the Black
Mould. (3) Beneath this came a floor of granular stalagmite,
firmly attached to the walls, seldom less, and generally more,
than a foot in thickness, no doubt formed by the drip of water

from the roof. (4) A red loam, containing a number of lime

stone fragments, ranging in size from bits not larger than
sixpence to masses hardly less than those which lay on the
surface of the mould ; it exhibited no signs of stratification, and
contained, as will be described, various remains. Beneath this
came (5) a breccia of angular fragments of limestone and pebbles
of sandstone, imbedded in a reddish sandy calcareous paste.

      These two deposits varied in thickness, and in this respect
seemingly stood one to another in an inverse ratio. The
excavation in the cave-earth, and sometimes in the underlying
breccia, was at first carried to a depth of four feet below the
bottom of the granular stalagmite ; but in the last year of their
work, the Committee, when they had excavated every part of
the cavern to the above-named depth, opened a trench in the
vestibule to a further depth of five feet, along a total length
of 132 feet. By this the limestone floor of the cavern was
actually laid bare for a short distance; in the rest it was

practically reached, for the workmen came down to a fissure
which was too narrow to admit of their working any lower.
In this excavation the material everywhere, except for one or
two pockets of cave-earth, was the above-named breccia.

     The following was the system adopted in the process of
excavation. The accessible portion of the Black Mould was

                                                          \t
CONTENTS OF KENT'S CAVERN.  305

first removed ; then, after the limestone blocks on its surface had

been broken up, by blasting if necessary, the remainder was
taken away for examination. Then the floor of granular
stalagmite was next stripped off, so as to lay bare the cave
earth, and this was dug out ultimately to a depth of four feet
in a series of prismatic blocks, a yard long and a foot square in
section, layer by layer. "This material, after being carefully
examined in $272; by candlelight, was taken to the door and

re-examined by daylight, after which it was at once removed

without the cavern. A box was appropriated to each `yard'

exclusively, and in it were placed all the objects of interest
which the prism or `yard' yielded. The boxes, each having a
label containing the data necessary for defining the situation of

its contents, were daily sent to the Honorary Secretary of the
Committee (Pengelly), by whom the specimens were at once
cleaned and packed in fresh boxes. The labels were numbered

and packed with the specimens to which they severally be
longed, and a record of the day's work was entered in a journal.
The same method was followed in the examination of the Black
Mould, and also of the granular stalagmite," with the exception

that in these cases, for obvious reasons, the material was not

divided into prismatic blocks, or removed layer by layer.
     Of a considerable number of objects found in the Black

Mould, some probably, others certainly, indicated the hand of

man. Among the former were sundry well-rounded stones,
some of them pierced by boring molluscs, and thus evidently
brought from the sea beach, others fragments of slate, which
might have been artificially fashioned. Among the latter were
articles in bronze and in bone, a lump of smelted copper, an

amber bead, pottery, spindle whorls, and flint flakes. The
articles in bronze and bone were neither numerous nor remark

able; the pottery (except one fragment of Samian ware) was
extremely coarse, and in most cases unglazed; the spindle
whorls and other "holed" stones were partly of local rocks,
Devonian grit, and Triassic sandstone, partly of a coarse
greenish schist and of " Kimeridge coal," neither of which occurs
in situ in the district. The flint flakes were only four in number,

and much bleached. Bones were numerous ; they were generally
discoloured, and had lost a considerable portion of their weight ;
some also appeared to have been exposed to the action of fire.
Among them were relics of pig, deer, sheep, fox, wolf or dog,

-X
306 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

with various smaller mammals; also of birds and of fish. The
mould also contained the shells of molluscs, marine as well as

terrestrial. Among the former were the oyster, cockle, limpet,
whelk, mussel, and other edible species, together with the
internal shell of a cuttle-fish, the unrubbed appearance of which
suggested that it had not been picked up on the beach, but had
been directly taken from the animal.

     The granular stalagmite was broken up and carefully

searched, but did not prove productive. It yielded, however,
charred wood, marine and land shells, and bones of various

mammals, including some extinct species.
    Of the four distinct levels in which the cave-earth was

removed, the uppermost was the poorest, and the third perhaps
the richest, in organic remains; the lowest contained a large

amount of comminuted bone, which was very rare in the three
levels above it. In many cases it appeared to be associated
with faecal matter. Large portions of the osseous remains, it

should be said, occurred as mere splinters, and teeth were

extremely numerous.

     The work was carried on from chamber to chamber on the
same plan, till at last the cave-earth or underlying breccia had
been removed to a depth of four feet from all ramifications of
the cavern which were of any importance. The results are

detailed in the annual reports, of which the following is a very
brief summary. During the first year's work (1865))" in the
Great Chamber of the eastern division were discovered bones
or teeth of "bear, lion, hyaena, fox, horse, ox, several species of
deer, rhinoceros, and mammoth. Remains of hyaena were pro

bably the most abundant, after which came those of rhinoceros
and horse. The relics of mammoth included molar teeth and

tusks of very young individuals." Several implements were
found, the majority of flint, but some of chert, besides a piece
of a Whetstone of grit and a "hammer-stone." Thus the very

first year's excavation fully confirmed the statements made by
previous explorers that articles of human workmanship and the
bones of extinct mammals occurred in the same deposit, in

situations where any subsequent disturbance was impossible.

In the second year (1866) the excavation of the Great Chamber
was completed, together with a gallery leading from
                     is                                            and

                                                              it,
     * The date, as amatter of convenience, that of the presentation of the report,
the work having been done in the earlier part of that year and the later part of the
preceding one.
                    HUMAN REMAINS.                    307

much progress made in that of the Passage of Urns. Bones

and implements were found as before, but nothing specially
novel. By the third year (I867) this passage, the Vestibule,
the north-east gallery, and most of the eastern division had

been cleared out, and in the western one the workmen had
made progress with the Lecture Hall.

     In the Vestibule a layer of black soil, consisting largely of
charred wood, had occurred over an area of about 100 square
feet, either immediately beneath the granular stalagmite, or
separated from it by a thin layer of ordinary cave earth. It
"was extremely rich in objects, many of them of great interest,
and including bones and teeth of Rhinoceros tz'c/zor/zz'nus, horse,

Hyena spa/tea, fox, bear and badger ; as well as human tools of

various kinds . . . implements, flakes and cores of flint, bone
tools and burnt bones." The flint specimens were 366 in
number, "though many of them were mere chips, and the
majority of them simply flakes, no inconsiderable number were

more or less perfect lanceolate implements. . . . The bone
tools included an awl about 375 inches long, cut at one end to
a sharp point," and a portion of a harpoon. The granular

stalagmite enclosed a human tooth and four others in a portion
of an upper jaw.` This Report states that blocks of an older,

sometimes ossiferous, stalagmite occurred in the cave-earth,
which indicated the existence of a still earlier floor, a fragment
of which afterwards was found in situ. Bones and flint tools,

as before, continued to be found during the year, but nothing of
importance was added to the list. In the fourth year (1868)
the exploration of the Lecture Hall was completed, together

with that of an unnamed chamber opening out of
                                                      inbut no

novelties were discovered. But in the workings of this year               it it,

the breccia beneath the cave_earth appears to have been cut                                      a
                                                                                                           ;It was
'into more frequently than in previous explorations.

often so hard that  had to be split up with chisels, to the
                    it             contained. " These were some
                               it
injury of the bones which
times so abundant as to form fully fifty per cent. of the entire
accumulation." With a few exceptions they belonged to bears

so that the cavern appears to have been, "during the era of the

breccia, almost exclusively mausoleum, and perhaps a home,
                           a

for bears."

* Nothing of the kind was afterwards found either     or beneath the stalagmite.
The discoverers, from the condition of the relic, were disposed to assign to date
more recent than that of the palmolithic implements.
 308 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

      The fifth Report (1869) narrates the clearing out of the south
 west chamber and the investigation of one of the most important

 branches (called the Bears' Den) belonging to the western
 division of the cavern, in a ramification of which--forming a
 kind of cul de sac--was a pool of water about twenty feet long
 and eight wide, but of no great depth. This was proved, on ex
 amination, to communicate with the south-west chamber, and
 in the gallery thus formed a number of " initials and dates,
 amounting probably to upwards of a hundred," were discovered,
 inscribed on a mass of stalagmite, which blocked the opening into
 that chamber. Among the dates were I744, I 728, [702, and

 1618. These are remarkable, for they occurred in a locality
 where the drip is unusually copious, and yet the deposits had not
been sufficient to obliterate them.* The lake was drained, and
its floor was found to consist of a pulpy mass of stalagmite,
beneath which was cave-earth, and under this more stalagmite
to a considerable thickness. In the first-named material were a
number of objects--odds and ends of various kindshobviously

thrown into the water by visitors. All were comparatively

modern, none being medimval or ancient, "nor any such as might
have been cast in as votive offerings." Bones were found in the
cave-earth below, among them a fragment of an elephant's jaw,

containing a perfect molar tooth. A flint flake was found in the

breccia in this gallery, which was pronounced by Mr. John Evans
to be undoubtedly the work of man.

     In the sixth year (1870), the excavation of a rather long and
irregular shaped fissure, called the South Sally-port, which opens
out of the Lecture Hall, was completed and another one (the
North Sally-port) was investigated. It was discovered that
this differed from the ordinary ramifications of the cave by leading
to an external opening in the eastern slope of the hall.1' Both
contained bones and worked flints. Another ramifying passage
was also partly explored (Smerdon's Passage). The excavation
of this occupied much of the seventh year (1871), and the cave
earth was proved to be richer than usual in organic remains, no

less than 2900 teeth having been discovered, besides bones (many
of them mere fragments), and pieces of antlers, together with

some flint flakes and chips and a lance-shaped bone tool. In these

side-branches the excavations were carried to a depth, sometimes

    * Several interesting remarks about the rate of growth of stalagmite appear in
these reports. This, in Kent's Hole, appears to have been rather unusually slow.

    1` Two other apertures were discovered in these ramifying fissures.
                          THE SABRE-TOOTHED TIGER.                                   309

of five feet, and occasionally of six feet. On the completion of

this rather tedious and difficult work one or two minor recesses

were investigated, and the excavation of the Sloping Passage,

which had been abandoned for a time, was resumed.

     In the eighth year (1872), a branch of the cavern leading to
the Sloping Passage, called by Mr. MacEnery the Wolf's Cave,

which had been begun late in the preceding year, was finished,

together with a branch leading from in which that explorer
                                                  a
had found a large number of teeth of small rodents (the Caveit,
of Rodentia), as well as another recess. This, which was one of

a group of fissures, approached by passage from the Sloping

Chamber, was called the Charcoal Cave, from a layer of that

material above the granular stalagmite. In this charcoal, which

seemed to indicate a place where fires had been lighted, were

some bits of very coarse pottery, and                               a       number of bones.

Several of them, and two teeth, were human, and were probably

the remains of the same individual. In the cave-earth bones

and occasional worked pieces of flint or chert were found, as

usual, and two more flint implements in the underlying breccia,

which was again cut into. The explorers also began work upon

the Long Arcade, and were rewarded by discovery of great
                                                                         a

interest. Mr. MacEnery had recorded the finding of seven

teeth (five canines and two incisors), which were referred to the

great sabre-toothed tiger (Mac/zwmdus latidens).* As this genus
previously had occurred only in Pliocene deposits, its association
with a Pleistocene fauna was most interesting, so that the
committee had been watching carefully for its remains in the

hope of placing Mr. MacEnery's discovery beyond all question

and of determining the exact horizon at which the remains were

lying. Hitherto they had been unsuccessful. Though a large
mass of material had been removed, not a trace of Mackwrodus

had been found. Now at last they were rewarded. On July 29,

1872, after searching for seven years and four months, the

workmen came upon a "well-marked incisor," lying "with the

left lower jaw of bear, containing one molar, in the first or

uppermost foot-level of cave-earth, having over the granular
"
                                                       is

                                                         it
                                                                    is

                                                                       it

                                                                                                                                                             a
stalagmite floor 2'5 feet thick." This,                                     strange to say, was

the only relic of Mac/zwrodus discovered in the course of this

excavation, so that Mr. MacEnery had been singularly fortunate.

The history of these specimens, as far as known, with a wood-cut and
                          plate in illustration,
"lithPolegirsatopcheicne                          given by Messrs.       Dawkins      and Sanford  in
                                                                           Soriely,  I862).
                          Mammalia," pp. 184--192 (Pabeorztagrap/zz`ral
a310 WILLIAM PENGELLY.£

          itIn the following year (1873), the excavation of the Longit,
Arcade was continued, with the usual results, but some farther
it
investigation of the breccia suggested inferences which will be
presently noticed. In 1874, the work was completed in this
Arcade, and two or three other galleries were investigated,

during which some other inscriptions were examined. These
were on a boss of stalagmite, the earliest of them being dated in
1615. The remains of animals, extinct and living, continued
to be found, together with flakes or more highly finished
implements of flint or chert. The Report of 1875 records the
continuance of similar work in various passages and branches
of the cavern with the usual discoveries; and the same may
be said of the following year (1876). The Bear's Den next
engaged attention. In this Mr. MacEnery had dug, and had
regarded it as a very productive locality. The task of clearing
it out occupied upwards of nine months, but the results (as
described in the Report of 1877) hardly fulfilled the anticipations
which the earlier accounts had excited, though, of course, the
usual "finds" were made in it and in an adjacent passage.
Many inscriptions were found on a boss of stalagmite, one of

which, dated 1571, is the earliest known to occur in the cavern.
The next year's Report (1878) completes the exploration of the
above-named passage, and describes the investigation of one of
the chambers which were connected with but there was no
new discovery. The Report of 1879 continues the account of
the exploration of minor branches of the cavern, without, how
ever, doing more than augmenting the store of bones and teeth
of the cave-animals, and obtaining more objects wrought by
the hand of man. The greater part of the cavern, had now
been emptied, sum of more than 1800 had been expended
by the British Association, and the results of the last two or
three years rendered highly probable that the continuance of
the excavation would do nothing more than supply additional
evidence in favour of conclusions which were already sufficiently

established; so was decided to bring the work to an end in
the course of the coming year. Accordingly, the Report of 1880
(the sixteenth) records the completion of some work which was
in progress on the last occasion, and gives an account of a
second and deeper excavation in the Long Arcade. This was
carried to an additional depth of four feet, as already stated, or of
nine feet in all below the floor of granular stalagmite, and was
COMPLETION OF THE EXCAVATIONS.  311

thus made almost exclusively in the well-known breccia. Only
eighteen finds rewarded the explorers. Three good "nodule"
tools were discovered in the eighth foot-level, and several flint
chips in the ninth or lowest. Of the animal remains, fewer in

number than the others, two were bears' teeth and one the crown

of a rhinoceros' tooth. No animal relic was found beneath the

seventh foot-level.

     Thus, on June 19, 1880, the exploration of Kent's Hole was

brought to an end. It was the most complete and systematic

investigation of a cavern which had ever been undertaken, and

on a much greater scale than that at Brixham. A task of this

kind is peculiarly exacting. It cannot be entrusted to workmen,

however steady and honest they may be ; it cannot be left to a
committee, whose members will be uncertain and intermittent in

their visits : it demands the constant oversight of one man, who

so thoroughly understands the subject, as to know both what

should be done at a crisis, and when special precautions must be

taken in order to place some discovery of exceptional interest
beyond the risk of dispute, by recognizing at once the defects
in a chain of evidence, which might afford an opportunity to the
critic and an excuse to the sceptic. This superintendence was
given by Pengelly. He was indeed occasionally aided or

relieved by some of the other members of the Committee,

resident at Torquay, for no one man could have sustained single

handed such acontinuous and protracted task; but he made
himself primarily responsible for the direction of the investigation.

All the specimens discovered passed through his hands, were

washed and cleaned, labelled and recorded by him. The labour
of this must have been very great, and oftentimes not a little

tedious. The number of the specimens was really enormous. It

is stated in the fifth Report that on Dec. 31, 1868 (when the study
of the bones which had been collected was undertaken by Prof.
Boyd Dawkins and Mr. A. Sanford), the number of boxes
awaiting examination amounted to 3948, "and though it is true
that some of the boxes contained no more than a single bone,
it is also true that in many cases there were upwards of a
hundred in a box. . . When Prof. Dawkins began his examina
tion there must have been in store for him more than 50,000

bones ; and though many were unidentifiable chips merely,

every one had to be passed under review." judging from the
figures which are used in the last Report of the Committee, the
312 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

number of "finds," that is of the prisms of material, which not

only had been broken     up but also had proved productive,
                          Pengelly states in one of his papers *
amounted to over 7300.
that in the fifteen and  a quarter years, during which the ex

cavation was in progress, he visited Kent's Hole almost daily,

and spent over the work, including the time occupied by wash

ing and labelling specimens, in arranging materials and writing

reports, on an average five hours daily. This is a remarkable

instance of self-devotion on the part of a man, who was not in

independent circumstances and had to earn an income by other

work, for it must be remembered that, in accordance with the

rules of the British Association, no part of the funds could be

devoted to the payment of the secretary of the committee.

The following summary indicates the results of the explora
tion. In the first place a lower limit was obtained for the age
of the stalagmite, which, as is stated in the following passage,

could not be less than about two thousand years old.

     "Above the stalagmite, and principally in the black mould, have
been found a number of relics belonging to different periods, such as
socketed celts, and a socketed knife of bronze, and some small
fragments of roughly smelted copper, about 400 flint flakes, cores, and
chips, a polishing stone, a ring [made of Kimeridge clay], numerous
spindle-whorls, bone instruments terminating in comb-like ends,
pottery, marine shells, numerous mammalian bones of existing species,
and some human bones, on which it has been thought there are traces
indicative of cannibalism. Some of the pottery is distinctly Roman in
character; but many of the objects belong, no doubt, to pre-Roman

times."T

     Thus whatever was discovered beneath the stalagmite must

have been sealed up by it for, at the very least, two thousand
years; probably for a much longer time. In the cave-earth

were found a large number of chips, flakes, and implements,

generally of flint, but sometimes of chert, together with scrapers

and cores of the same, stones which have been used as hammers

or pounders, and a few pins, needles, and harpoons of bone.
Even if it be granted that some of the chips, flakes, cores and

supposed scrapers, be the results of natural fractures--a thing
which is often possible--and that they have been washed into

T*ranrarlz'on: qfl/zc DL`WUIlJ/lffe Assorialion, 1881 , p.   637.                                        chap. xxiii. The
    Evans, "Ancient Stone Implements of Great               Britain,"                                     were not affected
'l'

  J.

                                                                                                       it
passage quoted was written in 1871-72, but the main statements in
by the subsequent work in Kent's Hole.
RUDE STONE INSTRUMENTS.  313

the cave after exceptionally heavy rain or by streams which
have now disappeared, still, there can be no question that not
a few of the more elaborate implementsfl` and all the instruments
of bone are the work of man; and these, it may be added,
resemble similar objects found both in river-gravels and in

other caves, in England and in \Vestern Europe, associated
with a fauna, which is either extinct or is living only in distant

parts of the world and under different conditions of climate.

     Pengelly also calls attention'l' to another matter of great
interest.

     "A glance at the implements from the two deposits shows that they

are very dissimilar. Those from the breccia are much more rudely
formed, more massive, have less symmetry of outline, and were made
by operating, not on flakes purposely struck off from nodules of flint
or chert, as is the case of those from the cave-earth, but directly on the
nodule: themselves, all of which appear to have been obtained from
accumulations of supracretaceous gravel, such as occur about four miles
north-westerly from the cavern. There seems to be no doubt, then, that
the Breccia men were ruder than those of the cave-earth ; and this is
 borne out by the fact that, whilst the men represented by the less
ancient deposit made bone tools and ornaments--harpoons for spearing
fish, eyed-needles or bodkins, probably for joining skins together, awls
perhaps to facilitate the passage of the slender needle or bodkin through
the tough thick hides, pins for fastening the skins they wore, and per
forated teeth for necklaces or armlets--nothing of the kind has been
found in the breccia. In short, the stone tools, though both sets were
unpolished and coeval with extinct mammals, represent two distinct

civilizations. It is equally clear that the ruder men were the more

ancient, for their tools were lodged in a deposit, which, whenever the
two occurred in the same vertical section, was invariably the undermost.
In fact the breccia in which each of the implements was found had
cave-earth actually lying on it."

     As the deposits differed so greatly in character, as they
were often separated by stalagmite, and as a breaking up of
this and a partial clearing out of the breccia had preceded the
deposition of the cave-earth, Pengelly came to the conclusion

that the interval between the two must have been very con
siderable.

    The following listi comprises the more important mammals

     * Fourteen of these are figured in the work last cited, with six of the bone
instruments.

   I1' Ninth Report ([873). Ibid. vol. xvi. p. 346.

      J. Evans, ut supra. The remains found in the black mould above the stalagmite

belong to such animals as the dog, sheep, goat, pig, rabbit, roe-deer, and short-horn
ox (Bar langg`fi'mzs). These do not occur in the cave-earth.
3 I4 \VILLIAM PENGELLY.

found in the cave-earth of Kent's Hole, omitting those species
which cannot be determined with certainty, as well as birds

and fishes :--

Felis lea, var. spa/rm, cave lion           Abundant.

Mac/neroa'us latidms, sabre-toothed tiger   Very rare.
flyana crocuta, var. speliea, cave hyaena   Very abundant.
Cam's lupus, wolf
                                            Rare.
Cam's ouljoes, var. spelwus, large fox
                                            Rare.
Gulo lusous, glutton
Ursus spa/mus, cave bear                    Very rare.
Ursusferox, grizzly bear                    Abundant.
Ursus arc/0s, brown bear                    Abundant.
Elepbas primrgem'us, mammoth
R/zinoreros tidmr/u'rzus, woolly rhinocero  Scarce.
Eguus caballus, horse                       Not very common.
Bos pringenius, urus                        Abundant.
Bison prisms, bison
Carr/us megaooros, Irish elk                Very abundant.
                                            Scarce.
Con/us elap/ms, stag                        Abundant.
Cerous tarandus, reindeer                   Not uncommon.
                                            Abundant.
Lepus timidus, hare                         Abundant.
Lagomys spelzzus, cave pika
Arz'imla amp/zz'bius, water vole             Rare.

A roicola agres/is, field vole              Very rare.
A mirola pratenu's, bank vole                Rare.

Castor fiber, beaver                         Rare.

                                            Very rare.
                                             Scarce.

     Brixham Cave and Kent's Hole, though far the most im

portant explorations of this nature, were not Pengelly's only
researches in caverns. In the month of October, 1862, during
some work on the flank of Happaway Hill, an eminence rising

to an elevation of 271 feet above the sea, and north-east of the
valley in which lies the principal street of Torquay, a cave was
discovered at a height of about 196 feet above ordnance-datum.
It was a gallery about 46 feet long, by 10 to I 5 feet wide, and
about 10 feet high, and the examination of it was entrusted to
Pengelly. In order to avert any possibility of malpractices he
determined not to employ any labourers but to do the work

himself, aided only by his son. It did not, however, prove very

remunerative. They found a good many rough flint chips, and

one which might be regarded as an implement; some charred
wood, a fragment of the skull of a child, and part of a jaw of a

man, whose age apparently was between twenty and thirty years,

a tooth of a hyaana, two or three bear's molars, and one or two
teeth of rhinoceros, with bones of living mammals. Most of the
THE MENTONE SKELETON.  315

discoveries indicated a recent fauna, but as there was no stalag--

mite-floor the de osits were not separable. Pengelly thought it

probable that the cavern had been partly filled in the palzeolithic
age, but afterwards had been nearly emptied and then refilled
in more recent times.`

     Pengelly also visited the famous fissure at Cavillon, near
Mentone, in which a human skeleton had been found. When
this discovery was announced, in the spring of 1872, Sir W. Tite
wrote to him expressing a strong desire that he should investigate
the matter, at the same time generously providing the necessary
funds for the journey. Pengelly arrived at Paris on April 30,
and had an interview with the British Ambassador, Lord Lyons,
in order to secure his good oflices, in case any obstacle should
be interposed, after which he visited Professor Milne Edwards

at the Jardin des Plantes, and then examined the skeleton, which

by that time had been forwarded to Paris. It had been very

carefully packed, together with a piece of breccia on which it
was lying, when it was discovered. Pengelly then proceeded to
Mentone, and examined the cave itself. This is a fissure or

triangular slit in the cliff, about 80 feet high, 30 feet wide and
45 feet deep, the threshold being at an elevation of about 103
feet above the sea-level. The skeleton was found at a depth of

seven feet below the surface,`|' and about nine feet from the

entrance. Other fissures exist in the neighbourhood, which

already had received attention.

     "The floor [of the cave in question] is composed of dark earth, full
of charcoal and fragments of bones, mingled with blocks of stone
which have dropped from the roof. Below it . . . a skeleton was met
with, as well as flint flakes, rude instruments of bone, and a number of
shells perforated for suspension. The skull was covered with a head
dress of more than 200 perforated sea-shells. It rested in an attitude
of repose, with the legs and arms bent. . . . The teeth and bones of

Ihyaena, lion, woolly rhinoceros, mammoth, and other pleistocene animals

occurred both in the soil above and below."

     That this and the other fissures were inhabited in the palaeo
lithic age seems beyond doubt, but it is not so certain whether
the skeleton is of that age, or whether it indicates a subsequent
interment in neolithic times. The discoverer, M. Riviere, stoutly

              * Transartiour oft/12 Broom/lire Association, 1886, p. 161.

                     1' Other authorities make the depth about seven yards.
                  1 Boyd Dawkins, "Cave Hunting," chap. vii.
316 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

maintained it to be a relic of paireolithic man, and to this view
Pengelly inclined ; * though he observed that the work of exca--
vation, which was still in process at the time of his visit, was

not conducted in a properly systematic way. Professor Boyd
Dawkins, however, considers this to be, like more than one other
instance in France, a neolithic interment in a cave which had
been previously inhabited by palaeolithic man, since remains of
the former occur in the upper floors of these fissures, and his

opinion has found favour.with the majority of experts, at any

rate in this country.`|'
     We pass over several short papers on points which arose

out of these investigations, but we must not forget that, in
addition to his work as an explorer, Pengelly did much as the
historian of caverns, by collecting the accounts of earlier re
searches, and by critical notices of those which from time to
time were published. These essays occupy many pages of

the Transactions 0f the Dawns/lire Assacz'atz'on. They appear
under various titles ; sometimes the literature of a single cavern
is the subject of a special communication ; sometimes a passing
notice of a question relating to cave exploration occurs in a
paper which deals with several geological topics. Among the
former group we may enumerate the papers on the Literature
of the caves at Oreston, at Yealhampton, at Anstey Cove, and

at Buckfastleigh, and on the caverns and fissures near Chudleigh.
But of these'communciations none is so lengthy or so important
as that which is devoted to the literature of Kent's Cavern.

This is divided into five parts which, if collected together, would
form a fair-sized octavo volume. In the second of them Mac
Enery's original manuscript is printed in full; in the fifth the

whole series of reports submitted to the British Association is

collected. Caverns also receive notice from time to time in

another group of critical and historical papers, entitled "Notes
on recent notices of the Geology and Palaeontology of Devon
shire," from which title after a time the word "recent" was
dropped. Of this thirteen parts appeared between 1874 and
1886, and they also would form a goodly volume. In these

"`  " The   Cave-man of Mentone."      Trans. Dev. Arum, vol. vi. p.            29 3.     other
1-  It is,  however, right to say  that, since this paragraph was               written,
ossiferous fissures on this part of the Mediterranean coast have been described which,
in the opinion  of competent judges, have                                       in favour of the
view held by    Pengelly. See "Address     strengthened  `Hth,e"'evibdyenMcer.    A. Evans,
Reports of British Association, 1896.       to Section
CRITICAL PAPERS.                                                    3 I7

Pengelly dealt more especially with such accounts of or com

ments on the work in the Devonshire caves as had appeared

from time to time in contemporary literature. Hence the

papers are mainly critical, and are largely occupied by the

corrections of errors.` These are sometimes of no great impor

tance, being merely those little slips, which an author, not

personally familiar with a locality, can hardly avoid, however

careful he may be ; slips, which the present writer fears might

be detected in these pages by the keen eyes of his friend, were

he still alive; but certain of them were grave errors as to matters ,

of fact, the correction of which was a matter of great import

ance. Not a few of the more serious of these errors belong

to a special category, misstatements by critics to whom the

results of researches in caverns and in the older river gravels

were especially unwelcome, as demonstrating that the human

race must have existed on the globe for a much longer period

than six thousand years. Many men of science still living

can remember the excitement which was aroused in certain

theological circles by the assertion of this unwelcome conclusion,

and how self-appointed champions of orthodoxy rushed into

print to discuss, with all the confidence of ignorance, subjects

which they did not understand and evidence which they could

not appreciate, thus injuring the great cause which they deemed

themselves to be aiding.

     Pengelly's papers--at this interval of time--teach a valuable

if a somewhat saddening lesson, by showing the weapons which

would-be defenders of truth sometimes venture to employ in its

service. The misstatements are occasionally so gross and so

palpable, that, assuming them to have been made in good faith,

they indicate either an extraordinary amount of stupidity or a

singular form of mental perversity.                     Some of the worst

offenders launched their misrepresentations from behind the

aegis of a Society (then newly founded) called the Victoria
Institute, which had devoted itself to the task of propping up

dubious theology by unsound science. This brings it within

} the swing of Pengelly's hammer, from which it does not escape
  without damage to reputation ; for on one occasion he convicts

it of continuing to give currency to statements the untruth of

which had been demonstrated. A painful chapter truly in the

     * Somewhat similar to these   is"  another series  of papers   published in the same
Tranmrtion: (1878-1885), entitled       Notes on Slips   connected  with Devonshire."
318 \VILLIAM PENGELLY.

history of the " conflict of science," and perchance it may be not
the last!

     The third section of Pengelly's scientific work yet remains to
be noticed--the miscellaneous papers on geology and kindred
subjects. These relate almost exclusively to the south-west of
England, and not a few to that part of Devonshire which lies
within easy reach of Torquay. One might have thought that
the work already described, in addition to his duties as a teacher
and lecturer, would have left him no leisure for any other
investigations; but it was not so. As a rule, however, these
papers are comparatively short, being the fruits of researches
which either did not demand a long time, or could be carried on
at intervals as circumstances allowed. They are, in fact, "chips
from aworkshop," which in many cases are only of local interest;
but still, in not a few, such as were well worth preservation. On
this account the majority of them were published in the proceed
ings of local societies, for Pengelly was not a frequent contributor
to the Yournal of Me Geologian Society of London. But the
variety of subjects covered by these papers so well indicates
the energy, many-sidedness, and versatility of the man, that we
must endeavour to give some slight notice of their general scope.

     One group, among which are some of his earliest contri
butions to science, deals with questions relating to the Devonian
system, its stratigraphy, and its relation to the Old Red Sand
stone of other parts of Britain, and to certain of its fossils?"
Another group deals with the "New Red Sandstone of
Devonshire," in connection with which we may mention an
important paper on the "Age of the Devonshire Granites." On
this point Pengelly came to the following conclusions: that the
granites of Dartmoor are not older than the close of the Carboni
ferous Period, that they had been stripped bare by denudation
when Ithe materials of the red conglomerate were being brought
together, and that this conglomerate (or breccia) and the
associated sandstone were not of higher antiquity than the
lower Trias. There is no very direct evidence for or against
the last of these conclusions; but at the present time, several
of the most competent judges are in favour of assigning these
deposits to the Permian system, and of regarding the Devon
shire conglomerates (or breccia) as the equivalents, speaking in

    * His first formal paper appears to be that on "The Ichthyolites of East Corn

wal ," Trans. Roy. Geol. Soc. Corm, vol. vii. (1849), p. 106.
MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS.  I

                           319

general terms, of the Rothliegende of the Continent. As to the
general accuracy of the other two conclusions, no reasonable
doubt can be entertained. In other papers, Pengelly discusses
the probable physical geography of the region which is now
Devonshire, during the age of the "New Red," and he records

several interesting facts concerning the well-known Triassic
conglomerate of Budleigh Salterton, and the way in which the
pebbles derived from it travel eastward along the coast ; besides
considering the origin of that curious deposit of chalcedonic

silica, called beekito, so frequently met with on the limestone
fragments in the lower New Red Sandstone of Devonshire.

     One of the most important of these papers is devoted to the
discussion of a very difficult question--the relation between the

crystalline schists which occupy the most southern part of
Devonshire, and the slaty rocks to the north of them. In this
paper, entitled "The Metamorphosis of the Rocks extending
from Hope Cove to Start Point, South Devon," Pengelly gives
a general description of the geology of the district, and discusses
the age of the schists. On this question two views have been

entertained: one, that the schists represent a portion of the
Devonian rocks, which have undergone very considerable altera

tion ; the other, that they belong to a much more ancient series,

which had assumed a crystalline condition long before the

Devonian period, though they were affected by the mechanical

disturbances which produced the cleavage in the slates and
gritty rocks of that age. One result of this disturbance has
been the production of a considerable fault, running across the

country from a point a little distance south of Torcross to Hope
Cove, which has thrown down the newer against the older series,

and has modified the latter by severe pressure. Pengelly shows

that beyond question the alteration was anterior to the period of
the "New Red," for not only in Bigbury Bay does the outlier,
known as Thurlestone Rock, belonging to that period (regarded
by him as Trias) rest upon the edges of highly inclined Devonian
slates, but also at the Garrets, a cliff in the same neighbourhood,
a patch of conglomerate, of like age, is full of pebbles of quartz
and of schist. He gives his reasons for thinking it highly
probable that, to the south of the Start Point and the Bolt
Head, a mass of granite is concealed beneath the waters of the
Channel ; and he is of opinion that, by the intrusion of this rock

into the Devonian slates, the latter were converted into crystalline
320 \VILLIAM PENGELLY.

schists. The question, however, at that time, was not even ripe
for discussion; it required careful study with the microscope,
and a rather unusually wide experience of rock-structures. His
view still finds some advocates; but, at any rate, the meta
morphosis of the schists certainly differs from that usually caused
by intrusive action, while both they and the slaty Palaeozoic
rocks to the north have been indubitably affected by mechanical

movements which took place at one and the same date.

    A third group of papers deals with the question whether

.any signs of ice-action or, in other words, of the Glacial Epoch
can be detected in Devonshire. These papers contain a number
of interesting observations concerning boulders, which, though
they do not prove the former existence of glaciers, certainly
strengthen the evidence of the " Head" at Bovey Tracey, and
make it highly probable that there was a time when the
climate of this part of England was much colder than it is at

present.

    A fourth group of papers deals with the "raised beaches,"

which are rather common features on our south-western coasts,
and adds materially to the evidence in favour of a moderate
depression of the land rather after the Glacial Epoch. One of
these papers describes a number of curious "burrows" in the
limestone rock of southern Devon. These--rather clean-cut
holes, generally cylindrical in form, sometimes two or three
inches in depth, and nearly an inch wide--occur at considerable
heights above the sea level. They are found at elevations of

from 95 to 165 feet near Sharkham, at about 200 feet near the
entrance of Kent's Hole and near Brixham, and near Petitor at
about 235 feet. Pengelly was of opinion that they had been
made by a P/zolas or some other marine boring-mollusc, and
indicated a submergence corresponding in amount with their

present altitude. In this matter, however, the present writer is
unable to agree with his friend, for he believes these holes to
be the work of snails, for reasons generally similar to those of
which he has already given an account.`

     Lastly, there are several papers relating to subjects on the
border-land--in which Pengelly worked so ably--between
geology and archaeology. These include notices of more than
one "fossil" forest, of which perhaps the most interesting was
in Torquay. This deposit begins in the Tor Abbey valley, at

                  * Gtol. Mag, 1869, p. 483; 1870, p. 267; I872, p. 315.
                             '                                                                32 I

                              BONES OF WHALES.

a distance of about three-quarters of a mile from the sea, and a
height of about forty feet above
it                                    and extends below low
                                  it,

                                                                          a
                                                                       is
water mark, probably rather beyond the five-fathom line. It

consists of a dark, peaty material, containing the trunks and

branches of trees, with the bones of the stag (Camus elaplzus),
wild-boar (Sus scrqfa), and Celtic short-horned ox (Bus longi
frons). Antlers 0f the       first-named were marked with notches,
indicative of the work
                             of man. A single tooth, also, of the

mammoth, was dredged up, the general appearance of which

suggested that came from the same bed, though this later

in date than the raised beaches.

Other papers record the occurrence of the remains of whales,

which had been washed up on the Devonshire coast or dredged

up in its immediate neighbourhood. The bones were identified

with Esclzrz'cktz'us robustus (or Balenoptera robusta), rorqual
not now known on the British coasts. Beside these subjects

we find discussions on the insulation of St. Michael's Mount

in Cornwall, on stone-cists rand cairns, on bronze celts, on old
Acoins, and on folk-lore, provincialisms, and other subjects,
distinctly antiquarian.      number of observations on the

Torquay rain-fall must not be forgotten; these are contained

in no less than seventeen short papers, all subsequent to 1863.
The list printed at the end of this volume will give some idea

of Pengelly's industry, and of his varied interests. It truly a
                                  is
wonderful record, especially when we remember that Pengelly
                                           it
could not be counted among the "men of fortune and of leisure."is

Such number of papers, such diverse subjects, and such is
a
                is                                                                      ;
careful work in all of them! Here and there, perhaps, some
                                                                        is
inference ultimately may have to be modified or set aside;
                                                                                          it
from this fate no student of a progressive science, where the

evidence itself liable to imperfections, can hope to escape,

but we venture to affirm that Pengelly will rarely be found

wrong in any statement of facts, and            this characteristic--

its careful and scrupulous accuracy--which gives such a high

value to his work.*

    Full of years, much beloved, and with his scientific work
widely recognized, he has gone to his rest. It will be long

before this work forgotten, for his name inseparably linked
*

                         is
        The manuscript diary of his geological excursions from 1855--1866, which has
been placed in my hands by Mrs. Pengelly, very indicative of the man for shows
how careful and exact his observations were, while its pages are here and there
enlivened by some amusing little incidents and experiences.

                                                                                      Y
322 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

to the history of caves and the annals of primazval man. We,
his friends, in our turn must cease from labour and pass within
the veil, but till that hour comes, one memory will remain ever

quick in our minds. It is that of the genial presence, the

kindly spirit and the playful wit, which could brighten every
gathering, and give a zest even to the driest subject.
                               LIST OF PAPERS

BY THE LATE MR. WILLIAM PENGELLY, F. R.S.,

      In the " Catalogue of Scientific Papers " of the Royal Society.

                               (FROM VOL. IV.)

     1. On the ichthyolites    of East Cornwall. [1849.]  Cornwall, Geol.
                                 pp. 106--108, 115--120.
Soc. Trans. VII., 1847--60,

     2. Remarks on the geology of the south coast of Cornwall.         [1852.]

Cornwall, Geol. SOC. Trans. VII., 1847--60, pp. 211--215.
           Observations on the geology of the south-western coast of Devon
       3.
shire.      [1856.] Cornwall, Geol. Soc. Trans. VII., 1847-60, pp. 291

297.                                    red conglomerates of Torbay.
     4. On the Beekites 'found  in the
[1856.] Cornwall, Geol. Soc.    Trans.  VII., 1847--60, pp. 309--315;

Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1856 (pt. 2), pp. 74--75.
           The                  and chronological distribution of  the Devonian
       5.   of   geographical  Cornwall. Cornwall, Geol. Soc.
fossils         Devon and                                          Trans. VII.,
1847--60, pp. 388--417; Geologist, V., 1862, pp. 10--31.
6. On the ossiferous caverns and fissures of Devonshire. Roy.
Inst. Proc. 111., 1858--62, pp. 149--151.
     7. On the Devonian fossils of Devon and Cornwall, with special

reference to the Collection presented to the Oxford University Museum,
in connexion with the BURDETT-COUTTS Geological Scholarship. Roy.
Inst. Proc. 111., 1858-62, pp. 263-268.

     8. On the ossiferous fissures at Oreston, near Plymouth. Brit.

Assoc. Rep. 1859 (pt. 2), pp. 121--123; Geologist, II., 1859, pp. 434--

444-                                                                   .
    o. On the chronological and geographical distribution of the
Devonian fossils of Devon and Cornwall. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1860

(pt. 2),    pp.  91--_Io'1.  and Clays of Bovey Tracey,   Devonshire.  Roy.
            The
       10.         Ligmtes
SOC. Proc. XL, 1860--62, pp. 449-453; Phil. Trans. 1862, pp. 1019--

1038.
     11. On a new Bone-cave at Brixham. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1861

(pt. 2), pp. 123-124; Geologist. IV., 1861, pp. 456--460.
     12. Recent encroachments of the sea on the shores of Torbay. Brit.

Assoc. Rep. 1861 (pl. 2), p. 124; Geologist, IV., 1861, pp. 447-453.
324 \VILLIAM PENGELLY.

     13. On the relative age of the Petherwin and Barnstaple beds.
Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1861 (pt. 2), pp. 124-127.
     14. On the age of the Granites of Dartmoor.                 Brit. Assoc. Rep.
1861 (pt. 2), pp. 127--129; Cornwall, Geol. S0c.
414--432; Geologist, VI., 1862, pp. 11--20.                      Trans. VII., pp.

     15. Deer's horns in Brixham Cavern. Geologist, IV., 1861, pp.

288--289.                                                      Geologist, IV., 1861, pp.

     16. On the Devonian age of the world.

332-347                                                          Geologist, IV.,
     17. Geological evidences of the deluge of Noah.
I861,Pp-sss--ss6-
     18. The lunar seas.                        _  IV., 1861,  pp. 490--492.

                                Geologist,

     19. On the correlation of the slates and limestones of Devon and
Cornwall, with the old red sandstones of Scotland. Brit. Assoc. Rep.
                                                   V.,
1862   (pt. 2), pp.  85--87; Geologist,                 1862, pp. 456--459;   Cornwall,
Geol.  Soc. Trans.
                     VII., pp. 441--445.
     20. On the supposed uniform height of contemporary "Raised
Beaches." Cornwall, Geol. Soc. Trans. VII., 1862, pp. 446--448.
     21. The accumulation of cave deposits. [1861.] Geologist, V.,
1862, pp. 65-66.
     22. Introduction to O. HEER'S paper on                    Gceeortla. inSocfo. sJsoilurpnl.anXtsVfIrIoIm.,
the  Hempstead Beds of the Isle of Wight.

1862,PP-369--s77-           of the  Dartmoor                 _  Geologist, VI., 1863,
     23. On the age
                                                   granltes.

pp. 11--20.

                                (FRoM VOL. VIII.)

       24.  The lignites    and clays of Bovey          Tracey.  [1862.]      Devon.
Assoc.                      1), 1863, pp. 29--39.
            Trans. I. (pt.
     25. On the age of the Dartmoor granites. [1862.] Devon.
Assoc. Trans. 1. (pt. 1), 1863, pp. 48--54.
                                                                              .

     26. On the chronological value of the new red sandstone system
of Devonshire. [1863.] Devon. Assoc. Trans. I. (pt. 2), 1864, pp.

31--43
     27. The red sandstones, conglomerates and marls of Devonshire.
Plymouth Instit. Trans. I. (pt. 1864--65), pp. 15--50.
4D11588e--76v1o625,n8,8.sp;phppiRrX..eeX.p11o--X--r1tI1s4XB1;r;.i,(t1X.X--L19XA8I)s6IXs.9o,Vo, cfI.1Ip8.th,p7Re2. e, 1p1c8p.o86pm97.X--,mX22i8ptX0--tp8eV.4;e7.,;2X4fLo--X1.r8,3L6e45I1;x,I8Ip.X7lp,o0pXr,.1iXn8pg71Vp36.,--IKI21Iep5.6np,;--.t'2s1X1989;XC688--aXX,v2VeL0rp9IIn.p..,,,.
     29. The introduction of cavern accumulations.               [1864.] Devon.
Assoc. Trans. I. (pt. 3), 1865, pp. 31--42.
             The denudation       of rocks in Devonshire.
      30.                       1865, pp. 42--59.                [1864.] Devon.
Assoc.      Trans. I. (pt. 3),

     31. On changes of the relative level of land and sea in South
eastern Devonshire,     in connexion               with the antiquity of      man. Geol.
                      348-350; Brit.                                           1864 (Sam), \
       IL, 1865, pp.                               Assoc. Rep. XXXIV.,

PM-a6g3.
                                        LIST OF PAPERS.                                                                                                32 5

      IL,32. The Sahara and the         North-east              Trade  Wind.         Quarterly journ.

Sci.        1865, pp. 565--566.

      33. The submerged forests of Torbay. [1865.] Devon. Assoc.
'Trans. 1. (pt. 4), 1866, pp. 30--42.
      34. On an accumulation of shells with human industrial remains.
found       on a hill  near    the river              Teign, Devonshire. [1865.]                                                                Devon.
Assoc.      Trans. I.  (pt.  4), 1866,              pp. 50--56; Brit. Assoc. Rep.
                                                                                                                                            XXXIV.,

1864 (Sect), p. 63.
      35. On cetacean remains washed ashore at Babbacombe, South
Devon. [1865.] Devon. Assoc. Trans. I. (pt. 4), 1866, pp. 86--89.
      36. On the correlation of the lignite formation of Bovey Tracey,
Devonshire, with the Hempstead beds of the Isle of Wight.
Devon. Assoc. Trans. I. (pt. 4), 1866, pp. 90-94.                                                                                                 [1865.]

     37. On certain joints and                      dikes in    the Devonian limestones on                                                             the
Southern shore of Torbay.                              [1865.]                                                                                         pp.
                                                                   Geol. Mag. III., 1866,

19--22.                                                                Geol. Mag. III., 1866,

     38. Glaciation in Devon and its borders.

PP- 573-574                             Tjooruqruna. yI.II.,Ro1y8.73I,npspti.t.                                                             IV.,
      39. On Kent's Cavern,                                                        Proc.                                                          1866,
      534--543; London Instit.
pp.                                                                              2--8.

     40. The triassic outliers of Devonshire. [1866.] Devon. Assoc.
Trans. 1. (pt. 5), 1867, pp. 49-59.

     41. On a newly discovered submerged forest in Bigbury Bay, South
Devon. [1866.] Devon. Assoc. Trans. I. (pt. 5), 1867, pp. 77--79.

     42. On the lithodomous perforations above the sea level in the
limestone rocks of south-eastern Devonshire.                           [1866.] Devon. Assoc.
Trans. I. (pr. 5), 1867, pp. 82-93.
     43. Raised beaches.                A[s1s8o6c6. .]RepD. eXvoXnX. VAI.s,so1c8. 66Tr(aSnecst.),                                           I.   (pl.
1867, pp. 103--109; Brit.                                                                                                                              5),
                                                                                                                                             p.   66.

      44.   Presidential address on the Geology                        of Devonshire.                                                             Devon.
Assoc.      Trans. II. (pt.
                               I), 1),  1867, pp. 1--37.
            The raised beaches in                                      North     Devon.                                                           Devon.
      45.   Trans. II. (151`.                       Barnstaple   Bay,
Assoc.                                              pp. 43--56.
                                        1867,

      46.    The antiquity     of man in the south-west                     of England.                                                           Devon.
Assoc.                         1), 1867, pp. 129--161.
            Trans. II. (pt.
     47. On the deposits occupying
and Waldon hills, Torquay. Devon.                   the valley between                                                                the   Braddons
                                                                                                                                      (pr.  1), 1867,
                                                    Assoc. Trans. II.

pp. 164--169.                                                                         of
      48. The     distribution of the Devonian Brachiopoda                           pp.                                              Devonshire
       Cornwall.       Devon. Assoc. Trans. II. (pt.                                                                                  170--186.
and                                                                    1),  1867,

      49.   Notes on the meteoric shower of November,                            1866, with specu
lations                                                                          (pt. 1), 1867, pp.
            suggested by it. Devon. Assoc. Trans. II.

24 -255.
7           On the flotation of clouds, and the fall of rain.

       50.  II. (pr. 1), 1867, pp. 263--266.                    Mag. IV.,   1867,                                                     Devon. Assoc.
                                                                                                                                      pp. 284--285.
Trans.       Fish in DeVQnian rocks. Geol.

       51.
pnpe.ar5420T.7o--rOq4nu1a4tyh; ,eBDcroeitnv.doAnitssioshnoirce..ofRespoDm.eveXonXo.fXthVAesIsIobI.co,.ne1sT8r6afo8nusn(.SdeIcIitn.),  Kent's Cavern,
                                                                                 of                                                   (pr. 2), 1868,
                                                    and the pebble ridge                                                               pp. 76, 77.
                                                    2), 1868, pp. 415--422.
       53.  TAshseocs. ubTmraenrsg.edII.for(pesr.t                                   Barnstaple                                                        Bay.
Devon.
326 WILLIAM PENGEILY.

of   54. The history of the  discovery of fossil fish                                                         in the Devonian rocks
    Devon and Cornwall.      Devon. Assoc. Trans.
                                                                                                              II. (pt. 2), 1868, pp.

423--442
     55. The literature of    Kent's Cavern. Devon.                                                            Assoc. Trans. 11.,
1868, pp. 469--522; 111.,                                                                                     1871, pp. 467--490.
            The rainfall in  1869, pp. 191--482; IV.,

       56.  Trans. II. (pt.  Devonshire during 1866                                                           and  1867.  Devon.
                              1868, pp. 560--577.
Assm.                      2),
                                                         ;
at  57. On whale        remains (Eschrichtius               robustus, grey) washed ashore
    Babbacombe,         South Devon. Brit.
(Sat), p. 116.                                              Assoc. Rep. XXXIX., 1869

      58.   On the insulation     of St. Michael's                 MIoIIu.,nt,187C1o, rnpwpa. ll2. 06,                                 Roy.
Institut.    Proc. V., 1869, pp.   128-137 Nature,                                                                                      207.

    59. The rainfall on the St. Mary Church Road, Torquay, during
the five years ending December grst, 1868. Devon. Assoc. Trans. 111.,

1869, pp. 113--126.
     60. On the submerged forest at Blackpool, near Dartmouth, South

Devon. Devon. Assoc.         Trans.  111.,                  1869,  pp.                                        127--129; Geol. Mag.

VII., 1870, pp. 164--167.
    61. The rainfall in Devonshire during 1868. Devon. Assoc. Trans.

111., 1869, pp. 153-165.                                                                                           major and
     62. On the alleged occurrence of Hippopotamus

TMraacnhsa.iroIdIuI.s,  latidens in Kent's Cavern, Torquay.                                                        Devon. Assoc.
                        1869, pp. 483--494; Brit. Assoc. Rep.
                                                                                                                   XXXIX., 1869
(Sort), p. 99; Geol. Mag. 111., 1871, pp. 42, 43.
R19e5p--6.32.X0L5T;.h,eG1e8om7l0.odMe(Sranega. t)aV,nIdpII..a,8n4c1i;8e7n1Dt, evpbopen.a.c7h8Ae--sss8o0o.cf.  Portland. Brit. Assoc.
                                                                                                               Trans. IV., 1871, pp.

    64. Prismatic ice. Sandstone boulder in granite. Nature,
                        in                                                                                                             1870,
                                                                                                  2),
p. 627.
     65. Rainfall                                                                                                                 1.,
                        England. Quarterly Journ. Sci. VII., 1870, pp.

467--477.                                                                                                          1870--71, pp.

    66. On rain. Plymouth Instit. Trans. IV. (pt.

11 --119.

   567. The rainfall on the St. Mary Church Road, Torquay, during
the six years ending with December gist, 1869. Devon. Assoc. Trans.
IV., 1871, pp. 42--58.

     68. The rainfall in Devonshire in 1869, and in the four years ending
with December 31st, 1869. Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp.

59--72
     69. The Ash        Hole and Bench bone`caverns at Brixham,                                                                        South
Devon. [1870.]          Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 73--80.
            The literature of the caverns near Yealmpton,                                                          South Devon.
       70.    Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 81--105.
[1870.]
    71. Notes on vessels made of Bovey lignite and of Kimmeridge
coal. Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 105--108.
     72. On the rainfall received at                        the same station by gauges at
different heights above the ground.
                                                            Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 18'71,
pp. 109--132.
            The supposed influence of the moon on the rainfall. [1870.]
       73.   Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 257--290; Brit. Assoc. Rep.
Devon.
XLI., 1871 (Seat), p. 55.
                                    LIST OF PAPERS.                                                                                                                        327

     74. Notes on the existence of preeretaceous sponges. Devon.
'Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 536--539.

      75. Further considerations on the influence of the moon on the
rainfall. Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 62 5-640.

      76. The rainfall in Devonshire in 1870, and in the five years ending
with December 31st, 1870. Devon. Assoc. Trans. IV., 1871, pp.

654--670.
     77. The rainfall on the St. Mary Church Road, Torquay, during
the seven years ending with December
                                                    31st, 1870.                                              Devon. Assoc.
Trans. IV., 1871, pp. 671--693.
      78. Notes on the              Machairodus latidens found by                                                                                                 RXevL. II.J,.
MAcENERY in Kent's                  Cavern, Torquay. Brit. Assoc.                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                                           Rep.
           (Sort), pp. 119, 120; Devon. Assoc. Trans. V., 1872, pp.

112752--179.

     79. The rainfall on the St. Mary Church Road during the eight
years ending with December grst, 1871. Devon. Assoc. Trans. V.,

1872, pp. 139--161.                                                                                                                                                  Devon.
      80. Note on an experiment to predict the annual rainfall.

Assoc. Trans. V., 1872, pp. 162--164.
     81. The literature of the Oreston Caverns, near Plymouth. Devon.
Assoc. Trans. V., 187 2, pp. 249--316.
     82. The rainfall in Devonshire in 1871, and in the six years ending
with December 31st, 1871. Devon. Assoc. Trans. V., 1872, pp.

371'391
     83. The      flint and chert   iRmepple. mXeLntIsII.f,ou1n8d37i,n                           Kent's Cavern,                                            Torquay,
Devonshire.         Brit. Assoc.                                                                 pp. 209--2 14.

     84. The ossiferous caverns and fissures in the neighbourhood of
Chudleigh, Devonshire. Devon. Assoc. Trans. VI. (pt. 1), 1873, pp.

46--60.           literature of the cavern at Ansty's Cove, near Torquay,
     85. The
Devonshire.        Devon. Assoc. Trans. VI.         (pt.                                          1), 1873, pp.                                            61--69.
                  literature of the caverns         at                                           Buckfastleigh,                                             Devonshire.
     86. The
Devon. Assoc Trans. VI. (19!. 1), 1873, pp. 70--72.
     87. The rainfall on the St. Mary Church Road, Torquay, during the
wVniiInt.he8(8pyD.te.eacTreshmeeb1nre8adr7iinn3fg,3arlplspwt,.iinth111D877eD--2ve.1oc3ne8sm.hDbiereevroni.3nrsAt1,s8s7o1c8.7a2Tn.rdaniDs_n.evsoVenvI.e. n  Assoc.    Trans.
                I),
                                                  I),                                                                                                       years            _
                                                                                                                                                           (pt. 1),
                                                                                             2,                                                                      ending
                                                                                                                                                                       1873,

PP-  I.'»9--158-            _  boulder    on  the shore                                          of Barnstaple                                             Bay,      North
                                               1873, pp.
     89. The      granite       VI. (pt.                                                         211--222.

Devon. Assoc. Trans.                                  Devon. Assoc. Trans. VI.                                                                                             I),
                                                    jour. III., 1873, pp. 8--14.
     90. The cave-man of Mentone.                                                                                                                                    (pt.
1873, pp. 293--330; London Instit.
                                                                                                 of Brixham                                                          Phil.
      91.  CRLeXpoIrItL,on18th7e3,  structure and   contents                                                                                               Cave.
Trans.                               pp. 483--495.

     92. The Kent's Hole Machairodus. Quarterly Jour. Sci. 111., 1873,

pp. 204--223.

                                    (FROM VOL. X.)

     93. The red sandstones and conglomerates of Devonshire.                                                                                                         Part 1.
Plymouth Instit. Trans, 1861--62, pp. 15--39.
328 WILLIAM PENGELLY.

94. The red sandstones, conglomerates, and marls of Devonshire.
Part 11., Plymouth Instit. Trans., 1862-63, pp. 15--38.
95. The rainfall on the St. Mary Church road, Torquay, during the
ten years ending with December 3151,
                                                   1873.             [1874.]  Devon.                As50c.
Trans. VI. (1873--74), pp. 425--446.
     96. The rainfall m Devonshire                 in 1873, and in the eight years
ending with December 3151:, 1873.
                                                   [1874.] Devon Assoc. Trans. VI.
(1873--14), pp- 447--465
97. Notes on Dr. RIVIERE's discovery                                 of three new human
skeletons in the Mentone caverns, in                                 [1874.] Devon. Assoc.
                                                   1873--74.
Trans. VI. (1873--74), pp. 560--566.
VII. IX.p46D8p0e5.9v--o9598n4.1Vs4--hI8iNI6r;.e6o,.1tXe1.s,87X[1o518In8.I177I)84.1r,--,e1c8p12ep87n.89t1-63,1D2np84oep--tv;i.oc6ne32s.599;A--osXfs4o0I1.ct2,h.8;e71T6X8rg.7IpaeV9pno,.-sl,o.pgp11Vy8.4I88.52a-,2n(215d4p8-p457.p;43a6--8l3a;7e74o-X)6n, It91pIo84.pl,o7;.g71y6X.84VP86oP0.,f,
                           3.]

;
                   ;

1883, pp. 476--486.                                iAnsso1c8.58TriannsW. iVnId.m(i1ll873H--il7l,4,  Brixham,
     99. The cavern discovered                                                                      pp. 775--

South Devon. [1874.] Devon.

8
   5
     6.
     100. Reports (Io-14) of the committee for exploring Kent's Cavern,
Devonshire. Brit. Assoc. Rep., 1874, pp. 1--17; 1875, pp. 1--13;

1876, pp. 1--8; 1877, pp. 1--8; 1878, pp. 124--129.
101. On the flint and chert implements found in Kent's Cavern,
near Torquay, Devonshire. Iourn. of Sci., IV., 1874, pp. 141--155
Plymouth Instit. Trans. V., 1876, pp. 341-37 [VVit/z addifianr].              I. 5,
102. Notes on boulders and scratched stones in South Devon.      ;5                                   ;;
Devon. Assoc. Trans. VII.,                                           IX., 1877, pp. 177--183;
XII., 1880, pp. 304--311.       1875,              pp. 154--161

      103. Notes on             tooth            of Machairodus latidens      in the Albert
Memorial Museum,           Exeter.                                            187 pp. 247--
                           a                     Devon. Assoc. Trans. IIV.,
                                                ;
260.
XD.e,vo110n84.7. 8A,[sRpsepoc.p.o7r4Tt--sra9n(81s;--. 5XV)]LII,.o, 1f 81t78h97e,6,pcppop.m. 7m48i3t--4te--1e04421;onXIIsIX.c,i.e,n1t81i8fi80c7, 7,pmppe.pm.7o07r--2a--9n8d8.a7.
                                                                 ;

         105. [Presidential address to the Geol. Sect. of the Brit. Assoc.,
Aug. 16th. History of      X5ca4V--vIe.6r,6n-1e8x7Ap7ml,oreparpt.i.oJn3o1u8rin--n.3D2Se3cv;i.oZnXosIhoVilroe.g,.i]s1t,87B7,ri1pt8.p7.A7s,2s9op9cp--..
Rep., 1877 (Sam), pp.

308, 387--394; Nature,

361--379
106. The relative ages of the raised beaches and submerged forests
of Torbay. Brit. Assoc. Rep., 1878, pp. 531, 532.
     107. The literature of Kent's Cavern. Part IV., Devon. Assoc.
Trans. X., (pt. 4), 1878, pp. 141--181.
108. The geology of the north-eastern coast of Paignton. Devon.
Assoc. Trans. X., 1878, pp. 196--202.
Asso1c0.9.TrRaenms.aiXn.s   of whales found on the coast             of  Devonshire.                Devon.
                           (pt. 2), 1878, pp. 630--635.
110. The metamorphosis of the rocks extending from Hope Cove
to Start Bay, South Devon. Devon. Assoc. Trans., XI., 1879, pp.

319--342
                                        LIST OF PAPERS.                                                                                                    329

     1 1 1. On the post-miocene deposits of the Bovey Basin, South Devon.
Brit. Assoc. Rep., 1882, pp. 532--533; Devon. Assoc. Trans. XV., 1883,

PP- 368--395- _                                                                                                     ,
      112. [Presidental
                         address to the Anthropol. Sect. of the Brit. Assoc.,
                                        XThoXefVaKInIeItn.iq,tu'si1ty88C3ao,vfepmrpna..n5.]24P--aB5r2tri9t.V. A. ssoDc.evRone.p.,A1s8so8c3.,
Southport, Sep. 20th.                                                                                                                                               '
pp. 549--561 ; Nature,                   189--434.
Tran1s1.3.XVThI.e,  literature
                    1884, pp.
Tran1s1.4X. VKeI.n, t'1s88C4a, veprpn.
                                        and glacial  or pre-glacial  man.               Devon. Assoc.
                                        480--488.
sXhVireI1I.1.,5.(1C8No8loz5tl,einsupapoz.n`i4a2rnz5o)--tic4e4Ds9e;vooXnf .VthAIeIsIs.go,ec.o1lo8Tg8ry6a,naspn.pd.X4Vp8aI8l.a--,e51o08n98t.4o,logpyp.  of   Devon
                                                                                                                                                           5--824;
                                                                                                                                                       77

      116. Happaway      Cavern,             TrTaonrsq.uXayV. III.B,rit1.886A,sspopc..   Rep., 1885,                                                       pp.
1219--1220; Devon.       Assoc.
                                                                                        161--170.
     117. On a scrobicularia bed             containing   human                         bones,    atXXNeXwIVto.n,
Abbot, Devonshire. Brit. Assoc.              Rep., 1886,  p. 841     3                   Nature,

1886, p. 513.
     118. The extinct lake of Bovey Tracey. Abstract of Lecture.
[1885.] Plymouth Instit. Trans. IX., 1887, pp. 188--196.
     119. Recent researches                  in Bench Cavern, Brixham.                    Devon. Brit.
Assoc. Rep., 1887, pp. 710,
                                             711; Geol. Mag. IV., 1887,                 pXpX. V51I.4,--511859.4,
For biography and works, .ree Devon. Assoc. Trans.

pp. 44--49; Geol. Mag.                  1.,  1894, pp. 192, 238, 239; Geol. Soc. Quart.

Journ. LL, 1895, pp. liii--lvii.
                                           INDEX.

                                           --~°¢--

                              A                     Balfour, Mr., 196
                                                    Bally Castle, 68
Abbeville jaw, the, 139, 140, 141                   Balmat, Mons, 83
Abbey Road Schools, opening of, 62                  Barham, Dr., 151
Aberdeen, British Association at, 89                Barham, Rev. Richard and Mrs., 260
AAccckliwmoarttizhatSiocnh,ool2, 8349               Barlow, Mr., 64, 65, 83, 97, 256
              Dr. (afterwards Sir Henry),  258,     Barnes, Rev. Mr., 109, 197
                                                    Barnstaple, Devonshire Association at,
Acl2zndI ,
Adams, J. C., 29, 196, 215, 252, 264,               I79
                                                    Barnstaple, pebble ridge at, 194~ 195
                                                    Barton, fossils
277                                                 Bastard, Mr.,    at,        85
Adams, Leith, 261, 266                                               84
Adams, W., 254, 264, 275                            Bate, Mr. Spence, 129, 131, 134, 143,

Agassiz,  H4.1R.H.                                  195, 268
Albert,
                     Prince,      89,  98           Bath, British Association at, 160, 281
                                                    Battersby, Dr , 21, 26, 56, 95, 302
Alexander 11., nephews of the Tzar,        85       Bauer, Professor, 87
Amery, Mr., 286                                     Beale, Dr. Lionel, 99, 100
Anca, Baron, 102
Anderson, Rev. Dr., 90                           - Beasley, Mr., 94
Ansted, Mr., 81, 97                                 Beaver, discovery of remains of, 190, 191
Anstey's Cove, cave at, 87, 228                     Beccles, S. H., 75, 296
Antiquity of Man, the, 74, 76, 77, 39,                       Miss,
                                                    Becker,  Dr.,     196
    135, 160. I76, 177. 225, 245, 251, 317          Beddoe,          252
Argyll, Duke of, 96, 159, 205, 238, 248
Armstrong, Lady, 185                             `  Beecher, Lady, I41              61,  72,84,  no, 195,
Armstron , Sir Wm. (now Lord), 143,                 Beekites, 42, 57, 58,

Arn18o5ld, ,23life,  261                                196, 319                and Mis_s,   279,   280

                     of Dr.,                        Behrens, Sir jacob
                                                    Belfast, British Association at, 241
Arthlington,         R., 296  43                    Bellamy, Mr., 216
Ashley, Mr.,         252
                                                    Berry Head, 56, 81, 82, 94
Aspidium, the, 109                                  Betula Nana, the, 295
Asterolepis, the, 39, 40                            Beverley, Earl of, 36
Astley, Mr., 185                                    Bidder, George, 255
Athenaeum, the, 86, 87                              Bigbury  Bay,
Atlantic cable, lecture on the,        70           Bigsby,  Dr.,     319           108
                                                             Mr.,    97, 99,        Association

Aumale, Due 11', 127                                Birch,  Miss   H51.42,4~52
                                                    Bird,   Mrs.,
                            B
Babbacombe whale, the, 187                          Bird,
Babbage, Charles, 57, 63, 64, 83, 97,
                                                    Birmingham, British                             at, 276
    103, 104, 106, 125, 139, 196, 221,222;
   his calculating machine, 18                      Blakiston's granddaughter,               Lady,  99
Bailey, Mr., 64, 70
Baker, Sir Samuel, 22, 249, 253                     Bolitho, T., 155, 272
Baker Pits, 82                                      Bone needle, discovery          Gof.,a,25118,2,26188;9
                                                    Bonney, Rev. Prof. T.                                   on

                                                    Pengelly, 291
                                                    Booth. Dr.,
                                                    Bosanquet,     M1r1s4., 53      M.,  76
                                                    Boucher de     Perthes,
333 INDEX.

Bovey Heathfield, 245, 292                             Burr Island, 57
Bovey Tracey, deposits at, 94, 95, 96, 97,             Busk. George, 75, 77, I74, 196, 198, 216,

103, 105, 106, 108, 109, 110, 112, 114,                    196, 299, 303
                                                       Butcher Oak, the, 66
    115, 152,  154, 159, 291--295,          320
Bowerbank,
               Dr., 34, 35, 7o
Bowman, Sir William, 261, 273
Bowring, Sir                                                                     C
131, I77, 21 gohn,       94, 128, 129,           130,

Bowring, Lewin, 278                                    Caistor Castle, 121
                                                       Callaway, Mr., 214
Bowring, Lady, 130, 286
Boycott, Dr., 255, 261
Boycott, Mrs., 255                                     Cambridge,   British Association                            at, 134
Brachiopoda, 156, 157                                  Cambridge,                                                of, 140
Bradley woods, a picnic in. 88,                        Cambridge,   H.R.H. Duchess                                141
                                                                    H. R.H. Duke of,
                                                       Canada, British Association in, 270, 272
Brady, H. Bowman, 49,                       89         Capellini, Prof., 281
Bramwell, Sir F., 284
                                 185                   Cape Town, Bishop (Gray) of, 128

Breccia, 87, 168, 169, 227, 248, 298, 304,             Carboniferous system,                               the, 145, 146
307 '                                                  Carlisle, Lord, 69
Brice, Andrew, 28o                                     Carnarvon,   DLor.r,d,26813
Brigg, Mr., 214                                        Carpenter,
Bright, John, 49, 53, 191                              Carr, Bishop,
Brighton, British Association at, 226                  Carrol, Mr.,     51
                                                                      84
Bristol, British Association at, 246                   Carter, Mr., 156
British Association, Boulder Committee                 Cary, Sir George, 222
   of the. 245
British Association Meetings, 58, So, 89,              Cave bones, 142, 299,                               305,  307,  314
                                                                    Mrs., 139
98, 112, 134, 143, 159, 160, 181, 188,                 Cavendish,   R., 138
                                                       Cecil, Lord

196, 206, 226, 241, 246, 248, 251, 254,                Chamberlayne, General, 284, 286

258, 259, 261, 264, 268, 270, 272, 276,                \Chambers, Robert, 60, 80, 98, 107, 108,

    277, 281, 283, 285                                     183, 280, 285
British Medical Association Meeting, 102
Brittany, prehistoric monuments in, 271                Champernowne, Mr., 157, 270
Brixham Cavern, 74--76, 81, 82--87, 90,                Charcoal Cavern, the, 309
                                                       Cheltenham, British Association at, 58
94, 111, 124, 135, 136, 162, 163, 165,                 Chester, Bishop of, 210
I86, 215, 248, 280, 297, 298, 299, 300,                Chewton, Lady, 212
302, 320; method of exploring, 75;                     Christy, Mr., 77, 107
discoveries in, 76, 80, 299 ; close of                 Chudleigh Cave, 228
the exploration, 88 ; discovery of, 296 ;              Churston, Lord, 82

grants for exploration           of,   296             Chysawster, 257
               MB.r.,P.7, 359
Brockendon,                                            Cissbury flint mines, 247
Brodie, Rev.                                           CCClllaaaprrhkka,, mSA,uirdRuA.sn,dCr.2e,7w91,8538

Brooke, Rajah, 93, 96,           153,  160,  239
         Mrs., 81,
Brown,   Sir G., 54  93                                Clarkson,   TShior mTahso,ma5s0,
Brown,                                                 Cochrane,

Browne,   Miss,  135                                                                                       106
Browne,   Mrs.,  139,
                         141                           Colebrook-Dale coal, fossil plants of, 102
Brownlow, Canon, 276, 286                              Colenso, Dr., 32, 153, 160
                                                       Coleridge, Lord, 179
Brownlow, Lady, 82, 198                                Collier, Sir Robert (now Lord Monks
Bruce-Clark, Mr., 266

Brunnow, Baron von, 141                                   well),  2M58rs.,  269
Brushfield, Dr., 279, 280, 286                         Colman,
                                                       Compton, Mr., 120
Bryant, Wilberforce, 261

Buckfastleigh Cave, 82, 228                            Conglomerates, 87,        196
Buckland, Frank, 189                                   Conneau, Dr., 211
Buckland, Rev. Dr., 216, 247, 301                      Cooke, R.A., E. W., 107, 128, 139, 140,
Buckland, Mrs., 247
Buckman, Prof. 1., 59                                      252, 289
Budleigh Salterton, fossils at, 110, 151,
                                                       CCoooopmehro, laSirgrHites,nry18, 3 260
   152, I55                                            Cope, Arthur S., 261, 262                                            of,
Bulwer, Sir E. Lytton, 163                             Cornish fossils and rocks, 56, 71, 72
Bunbury, Edward, 166                                   Cornwall and Devonshire, bishoprics
          "SiSrigCnhaorfletsh,e
Bunbury,                         102, 113, 139         Co2rr3i4e, Mr., 266
Bunsen's                         Times," 85
                                                       INDEX.                                                  333

Cosway,  AM. Trs..,Qu14il8ler,  274                         Devonshire caves, 82
Couch,                                                      Devonshire dialects, 177
                                                            Devonshire, Duke of, 238
Couch, Jonathan, 55                        Burdett-,        Devonshire, fossils of, 139
Coutts, Miss (now Baroness)                                 Devonshire, geological formation
63. 64. 65. 79, 82, 93-97, 103, 105. 106,                                                                      of,
109, 111-113, 127, 128, 134-136, 138
                                                               I45'147
141, 160, 176, 178, 190, 198, 199, 201,                     Devonshire, Glaciation             in, 163, 164
                                                            Dick, Robert, 92
CCoo2vw0ea2,n, ,W20M.5.rG.,2.,32920, 373241. 293, 296       Dic"keCnhsi,mes,C"ha7r9les, 65; reads his
Crawfurd, Mr., 106, 136, 138, 143,                          Dickson, General, 193
                                                       160

Crimean War, the, 53,           54                          D'Israeli, 147, 148
Critchett, Mr., 261                                         Divett, John, 293, 294
Croker, Dillon, 147
Cromer, forest bed of, 269                                  Dogs, sagacity in, 229
Crompton, Mr., 122, 214                                     Doorn, Mademoiselle Von, 95, 162
Crookes, Prof. Wm., 140, 289                                Dost Mohammed, 73
Croome, Miss, 162                                           Drake, the memory of Sir Francis,

Crosskey, Rev. H. W., 245, 246, 251                             252
Crowther, Mr. and Mrs., 120, 121                            Dublin, British Association at, 254
Cumming, Dr. Hamilton, 286                                  Dudley, Charles, 50
Cushendall, Mr., 69                                         Dundas, Miss, 207
Cuvier, Baron, 205, 206                                     Dundee, British Association at, 181
                                                            Dunluce Castle, ruins of, 67
                        D                                   Dupont, Mons., 198
                                                            Durness, fossils from, 72
Dalton,     Rev. Canon,
Daniel,     Dr., 108                                        Dymond, R., 109
                                                            Dyott, Miss, 242

                                257,  258

Danish Minister, The, 83                                                                E

Dart River, 56                                              Eardley, Sir Culling and Lady, 24,
Dartmoor, 56; granites of, 110, 318
            Charles, 99, 101, 107, 229, 230,                   36
Da2r3vgin,                                                  Earle, Archdeacon (now Bishop),
Darwinism, 100, 135                                         Earle, Rev. John, 113,                        25o
                                                            Earnshaw, Prof., 100
                                                                                               114,  177

Dates and pines, ripening of, 69                            East Looe, 1, 32, 156
Daubeney, Dr" 5+ 58. 69, 97, 99. 103,
    104, 106, 108,                                          Economic geology, museum of,
                      152                                   Edersheim, Dr., 127                           19
Davidson, Dr.,      145,
                                146,  156, 157, 163,        Edgeworth, Mr., 196

    183, 184, 188                                           Edgeworth, Maria, 197
                                                                             British Association at, 206,
Davies, W., 135, 161                                        Ed2iélb5lll'gh,
Davy, Dr. and Miss, 108

Dawkins, Prof. Boyd, 42, 77, 160, 174,                      Edmondson, Mrs.,

    188--191, 196, 216, 253, 256, 264,                      Edward, H.R.H.           70
                                                                                    Prince,
266, 269, 303, 311, 316                                                                        257,  258

Dawson, George, 122                                         Edwards, Prof., 18, 19
J.Dawson, Dr.    W., 91,                                    Edwards, Prof. Milne, 35, 318
                                207,  248
Day, Dr., 147,  161, 228
                                                            Egerton, Lady, 108
                                                            Egerton, Sir Philip, 34, 70, 80,
Dedan, Baroness de, 202                                     Eifel, gravel beds of the, 196                139
                                                            Elgin, Lord and Lady, 106
De  la Beche,  M1r7.3,  118                                 Ellis, F.S., 270, 278, 284
De  Morgan,                                                 Else, Mr., 268
Derby, Lord, 98
Derry, Bishop of, 93
Desnoyer's ice-theory, I42                                  Enniskillen, Lord, 70
Devonian brachiopoda, I45                                   Enys, 1., 176
Devonian fossils, 93, 97, 102, 103, 145,                    Erme River, 56

16                                                          Ermington, 56
                                                            Erskine, Lady, 242
136.40.11.11s.ystem, 156-158, 297, 301                      E"sEchssear,ys  Prof.,
Devonshire Association, first meeting                                        and      114
                                                                                    Reviews,"
of, 129; objects of, 131; meeting at                                                           107
Plymouth, 134 ; Canon Kingsley                              Esterhazy,       Princess,
elected President, 202; meetings at                         Etheridge,       Mr., 59,   51     160,  187
                                                                                        142,
                                                            Euge'nie of Russia, Princess, 88, 89
Ilfracombe and Totnes, 258
334 INDEX.

Evans, john (now Sir), 87, 121, 160,                                                     `  Fry, Elizabeth,   50
                                                                                            Fry, R., 229
    293, 294. 215. 252. 294, 299. 393,                                             398
                                                                                    at,                           G
Evanson, Dr., 70, 71
Everest, Rev. R., 75, 296
Exeter, Archmological Association

   110, 111                                                                                 Galton, Captain (now Sir) Douglas,                        178
                                                                                            Galton, Francis, 269
Exeter, British Association at, 196                                                129      Gamgee, Professor, 264
Exeter, deposit at, 109                                                                     Gardner, Starkie, 94, 295
Exeter, Devonshire Association at,                                                          Garrets, the, 319
Exhibition of 1862, 128                                                                     Gascoigne, General and Mrs., 210
                                                                                            Gassiot, Mr., 100
                                F
                                                                                            Gaudin. Monsieur, 109, 113
                                                                                            Gaudry, Professor, 281
Falconer, Dr. Hugh, 74-77, 79, 81, 83,                                                      Geikie, F.R.S., Professor (now
                                                                                                                                                      Sir)
   861 87' 931 95--100! 1021 1041 1051                                                         Archibald, 207, 225, 285, 287
   121, 127, 128, 135, 136, 143, 215, 293,
                                                                                            Geological Congress, International, 281
    29 6                                                                                    Geological Problems, 181
Fanes     of Clovelly,         the, 203                                                                        of miners in,
                                                                                            Geology, interest  Prince, 257,               230
Faraday, Prof. 84,             97,   99,                     103                                                                         258
Farrer, Mr., 83                                                                             George, H.R.H.       the, 67, 68
Favre, Monsieur, 100
                                                                                            Giants' Causeway,
                                                                                            Gibraltar Cave, 144
Fearon, Captain, 54                                                                         Glacial Period, the,
Fechter, 106, 108                                                                           Glaciation, signs of,  101,    167, 295, 320
                                                                                                                     163,    164, 172, 173,
FFeiergldu,ssFo.n,,  1., 289
                     121, 124,     125,                 289                                    320
Firth, Dr., 123, 124                                                                        Gladstone, Dr., 108, 128, 261
                                                                                            Gladstone, Miss, 160
Fison,     Mrs., 136                                                                        Gladstone, W. E., 138, I60, 205, 282
Flint     implements,           83,     84,                  85,  87,              91,      Glasgow, British Association
                                                                                            Glenelg, Lord, 42                            at, 248
    121, 124, 162, 163, 165, 176, 306--308,
                                                                                            Glynne, Sir Stephen, 160
  31°, 33                                                                                   Godlee, R., 135
                                                                                            Godwin-Austen, R., 26, 54, 75, 98, 99,
Flower, Prof. (now Sir) W., 161
Forbes, Prof. E., 41, 147, 228

Forbes, James, 111                                                                              139, I44, I68, I69.  I78,                296,    302
                                                                                            Goldwin-Smith, Mr.,      22
Forests, submerged, 164,                                165,      195, 250
Forman, I-I. Buxton, 278                                          100, 102,                 Goran Haven Cairn, 154
FFFooorrrsstetteesrrc,,ueMW, is.MsE,r..1,a2n72d05Mrs.,  242                                 Gordon,    Captain, 65,
Fossils, 81, 85, 88, 96,                                98,                                 Gosse,   Philip, F.R.S.,  I39                73.     81,  88,
                                                                                                                         22,

                                                                                                I39
                                                                                            Gosse, Edmund, 81
   109, 110, 112, 114, 117,125, 145, 151,                                                   Granites of Dartmoor, 318
                                                                                            Grant, Captain, 141
   152, 154, 156, 157,163, 172,174,183                                                      Grant, Sir Hope, 106

    1871 197, 205` 231, 2321 237-2391 295                                                   Granville, Lord, 205
Fossils, Great Peraver, I51                                                                 Graptolites, 41
Fossil fishes of Cornwall, 38, 4o, 41, 42,

F   56. 71, 72                     261                                                      Gray, Asa, 261, 277
                                                                                            Gray, Mrs. Asa, 261
   oster. Dr. Michael,

0,Fowey, 72                                                                                 Gray, 1. E., 187
Fowler,              127, 128, 247                                                          Gray's Elegy, parody of, 197

Fox,  AMlfisresdA.LloMy.d, ,271255                                                          Great Peraver Cairn, 154
Fox,                                                                                        Great Peraver fossils, 151

Fox, Howard, 42                                                                             Greenbank, Mr. 105
Fox, Colonel Lane, 247
Fox,       WMeisrsee, s,F4.R9 .S                                                            Greenwell, Rev. Canon,        253,           257
Fox,  the                                                                                   Gregg, Rev. E. P., 284,       286
                                     ,
      R.                                                49,  7o,  71,              84,      Griffith, George, 269

    85,   9M4, r.1,972.10136,   155,                    252                                 GGrroifvfieth, s,SirMRrs..,W1.3,4,601,3597,
Fraas,                                                                                      Gulf Stream, the, 101, 167,
Franks, Mr. (now Sir) A. \V., 161                                                                                                        103
Fraser's Magazine, disappearance of,                                                        Gull, Sir Wm., 275                             168,  194
FFFrrrooouuudddeee,, ,]RW. ic.A,h.a,2r2d1,921H,9u21,r9r16e9,l3l,2, 11139924, 201,
                                                                                    265     Gunn, Rev. John, 123, 124, 162
                                                                                   212,     Gurney, 1. PL, 120
                                                                                            Gurney, Samuel,
   240, 249' 25°, 253                                                                       Guyer, Mr., 236   98,    107
                                                     I N DEX.                                             335

                           H                             Hunt, Robert, 57, 64, 266

Haarlem Lake, 91                                         Hunter,  Sir Paul,  53
                                                         Hunton,
                                                                  T., 127
Haldon, fossils at, 110                                  Hutchinson, Mr., 260
Hallé, Charles, 279                                                                                 we,
                                                         Huxley, Prof" 39, 57. 91, 99.                    144.
Halliwell, Mr., 147
Hamilton, Sir \V., 69                                        185, 186, 196. 261, 266
            LCo.,rd5,4.10684
                                                         Huxley, Dr., 286

Hanbury,                                                 Hyaenas in caverns, 188
Hanover,                                                 Hyaena's teeth, 269
            Hill,
Happaway             W31.4V.,                            Hybodus, the, 72
Harcourt,   Rev.                                         Hyperion, discovery of, 29
                                    205,  206

Harding, Sir John and Lady, 148
Hardy, Gathorne, 205
Harkness, Prof., 59, 69, 98, 143,                  160,                         I

I72'174, 207, 249, 25I                                   Ichthyodorulites, 154
Harley, Rev. Robert, 140, 283, 289                       Imperial, the Prince, 210, 211, 258
Harley, Mrs. and Miss, 283                               Ingleborough Cave. 269
Harness, Mr.,                                            Ivybridge River, 56
Harper, Dick,   138
Harpley, Rev.                 129,     130,  131,  177,
                1W3 ,

    202, 227, 264, 286                                                         J

Harrowby, Lord, 161

Hatherton,   Lord,   Pr3o5,f.,36254,      255            James, Sir Henry, 164, 165, 166
Haughton,    Rev.                                        Jar-dine, Sir W., 89

Hawker, Stephen, 257
Hawkshaw, Sir John,                                      Jeffreys, Gwyn, 154, 178, 187, 254, 261
Heaton,   Dr.,                    238                    Jenkins, Rev. Ebenezer, 16, 263
Hector,   Dr.,
                136                                      Jermyn Street Museum,            the, 64,  79
                106                                      Jervoise, Mr., 210
Heer, Dr.,Oswald, 94, 96, 105, 106, 108

115, 120, 124, 127, 128, 294,295                         Jessopp, Rev. Augustus, 120, 123, 124
                                                         Johnson, Mr., 128, 261
Hemy, Napier,        273                                 Jones, D1. Bence, 171
Hennessy, Mr.,       59,      69                         Jukes, Prof. Beete, 60, 69, 70, 99, 145,
Henwood, Mr.,
                     155
Herschel, Sir John, 29, 3o, 33, 126, 169
Hicks, Mr., 173, 174                                     146, 163, 172, 173, 183, 186

Higgs, Junr., Samuel, 151                                                      K
Hincks, Mr., 69
Hind, J.    R.M, r2.,8942
                                                         Keeping, H., 293
Hippisley,
Hodge, Mr., 84, 217                                      Kennaway, Sir John,
Hoenick, Baroness, 96                                    Kenrick, Mr., 205            94

Hogg, Mr.,   2J9.6,                                      Kent's Cavern, 26. 42, 6o, 95, 137, 144,
Holdsworth,
                     212                                 I59, 160-1631 I65, 169, I74, I75» I77,
Holland, the Queen of, 190, 198, 201, 202                181, 186, 188-191, 193, 196,198, 199,
Home, Milne, 225
Hooker, Dr. (afterwards Sir) Joseph, 80,                 203, 205. 207, 208--213, 215, 216, 226,
100, 101, 102, 112, 113, 114, 134,                       227, 233, 235-238, 240, 242, 243, 246--
                                                         248, 252, 254-258, 263, 268; contents

    261, 275                                             of, 305 ; exploration of, 300--312;
Hooker, Lady, 162, 275                                   mammals found in, 314; origin of
                                                         name, 221 ; visitors to, 273, 280
Hooker, Sir \Villiam, 114, 135, 162                      Key, Mr.,
Hope, Beresford, 205,                                    Kinahan.   G1.09H, .,112348
Hope's Nose, 82, 94, 95, 114, 162, 165,                  King, Captain, 124

    270     Mr., 91, 100, 101                            King,  MMrrs».,341,251, 0272. 8123.  124,  125.  144
Hopkins,                                                 King,
Hopperton, Miss, 127
Horner, Mr., 90,                                         Kingsley, Rev. Charles, 53, 192, 194,
Howorth, Henry       98, 106
                     (now Sir),           265,  266            195, 202, 203, 206, 244, 254

Huddlestone, \V. H., 270                                 Kirkpatrick,  JMosre.,ph2,29230
Hughes, Miss, 279                                        Kirkpatrick,
Hughes, Prof. Mc Kenny, 228, 280                         Kirkstall Abbey, 8o
Hullah, Mr., 19                                          Kmety, General, 138
Hume, D. Milne,                                          Knowles, Sheridan, 115
Hunt, A. R., 21            245                           Krupp, Colonel, 211
336 INDEX.

                            L                                      Macgregor, Sir George, 242
                                                                   Machairodus, the, 95, 196, 207, 209,
Lake dwellings, 114
Lamb, Charles,                                                         226, 227, 237, 309
Landsborough,   M50r.,      41                                     Mackenzie, Archdeacon, 93
                                                                   Macmillans, the, 197, 198
Landseer, Charles, 80, 81, 107, 128                                Macmillan, Ale' ander, 199
                                                                   Magdalen, the President of, 104, 106
LLaannkgewsotertrh, y,DrM.,is1s0, 7,281327                         Maidencombe conglomerates, 87
Lansdowne, Lord, 108                                               Maker, 1

Lartet, Mons., 77,  142                                            Malaise, Mr., 198
Lavers, Mr., 262                                                   Malet, Sir Edward and Lady, 198
Lawrence, Sir James C., 280                                        Mallock, Mrs., 86
J.Lee,   E., 236, 238, 269, 278, 303                               Malmesbury, Lord, 205
Leeds, British Association at, 80                                  Malvern Naturalists' Club, 58
                                                                   Mammalian remains, 125, 200, 299, 314
Lefroy, General, 199                        165                    Manchester, British Association at, 112,
Lewis, Sir G. Cornewall,
Lie'ge caverns, 198                                                277
Lightbody, Mr., 174                                                Manchester, Duchess of, 24, 3o,
Lindsay, Mr., 138                                                  Manners, Lord John. 138,                      53
Liskeard, 32, 216                                                  Marsh, Prof. O. C., 281
                                                                                                          205

Liskeard cheese-ring, 118                                          Marsh, Sir Henry, 70
Lister, Arthur, 81                                                 MMaatuhneamaLtoicaalMoreucnrteaainti,on5, 425
Lister, J. J., 54, 70, 87, 97,                                     Maurice, Rev. Frederick Denison,
                                                 107  70,  81,     MMaauxryM, iiLllieeru,t.,Pro1f6.,9 279            199
Lister, Joseph (now Lord),                       54,               Medhurst, Sir \Valter, 274
                                                                   Medical congress, the, 261
85, 87, 97, 107, I74, 251, 290
Livermead Head,
Livingstone, Dr.,   84
Lloyd, Dr., 69, 71  70

London, Bishop of, 104                                             Mentone cavern, 217-219, 253, 315
L005, I: 12' 151 32' 42, 551 1051 156)
186, 216                                                           Mentone skeleton, 217-219, 252, 315
                                                                   Merian, Prof., 114
Looe Island, 34, 4o                                                Merivale,    DCe.anW, .2,67289
Looe pillory, 252                                                  Merrifield,
Lostwithiel,
Loughrun,      W2i7ll2iam,  187,            216                    Meteor showers, 175, 176, 180
                                                                   Millbrook Creek, 1
Low, Sir John and Lady, 274                                        Miller, Hugh, 39, 4o, 41, 83, 121
Lubbock, Lady, 163
Lubbock, Sir John, Bart., 98,                       100, 163,      Miller, Mrs. Hugh, 28, 89
                                                                   Milman, Dean and Mrs., 138
    I78, I79, 205, 238' 303                                        Milne, Miss, 97
Lycll, Lady, 90, 106, 107, 139, 143,159,                           Milnes, R. Monckton, 148

160, 244                                                           Milton Sands, 250
Lyell,    Sir   Charles, 26, 28, 54, 57,
         77a   801 891 901 91, 94"1061                     n7o5,,  Moel Tryfan, Arctic shells             from,  143
    761                                                            Moggridge, Mr., 60
111, 114, 115, 135' I37, 138, 14°, 142,
I43, 1531 l58_l611 I64-1711 1741 I78!                              Montague, Lieut., 53
179, 185, 186, 190, 198, 217, 218, 225,                            Moon's influence on the Earth, 201

238,     "2A39n,tiq2u44it, y 2o9f6,Ma30n2,";   his    workpn       Moore, Charles, 59, 91, 98, 100
the                                           77,
                                                      145, 225     Moore, John Carrick, 57, 167
Lyell, Mr. (now Sir) Leonard, 185, 186                             Moore, Miss, 138
Lyons, Lord, 315                                                   Moorhouse, Bishop, 277
Lysons, Major (now          General              Sir  D.), 54      Morley, Samuel, 173
                                                                   Morrender, Sir John, 36
Lytton, Lord, 182                                                  Morris, Prof., 54, 63, 102

                                                                   Mosaic deluge, the, 201
                                                                   Mosely, Prof., 264
                    M                                              Mothecombe, 56
                                                                   Mount-Edgcumbe,
MacAlister, Mr., 261                                               Mount-Edgcumbe,     Earl of, 272, 275
M`Call, Mrs., 97, I37                                                                  Countess of, 198
M`COYs PrOf': 38' 39: 7o: 72, 1511 1521                            Mount-Edgcumbe,     Lady Ernestine, 198
                                                                   Mount's Bay, submer ed forest of, 166
156, 188       RPervo.f.,J.5,9,                                    Mudstone, fossils at, 8

Macdonald,                        69,       91,   98               Munro,  PDrirn.c, e28A9 cliille,
MacEnery,                        26,        189,   196,201,        Murat,

205, 206, 207, 209, 213, 222, 226, 227,                                                              211

301, 302, 303, 309, 310, 316                                       Murchison, Lady, 43, 82                           ~
                                                                    INDEX.                                                                    337

Murchison, Sir Roderick, 42, 43, 54, 57,                                                                                  P
    581 $91 60172, 811 82! 83' 9°, 91, 96"
                                                                          Paget, Mr. (now Sir) James, 64.
    98, 103, 104, 106--108, 112, 126, 127,                                Paignton, Devonshire Association at, 25 3,

     138, 139, 145, 156, 158, 160, 188, 198                               254
                                                                          Pakington, Sir John, 83, 205
Murray, John, 162                                                         Palermian
Myers, Frederick, 73                                                      Palk, Sir

                    N                                                                 caves, 83, 87                               Lord    Haldon),

                                                                                     L. (afterwards
                                                                          ParI5a9d,ox3r9d3es,
Napoleon III., ex-Emperor, 210, 211                                                              _                           of,  71
                                                                                               discovery
Nasmyth, J., 69                                                           Parker, C., 51, 243
                                                                          Parliament Oak, the, 66
                                                                          Parry, F. \V., 289
Nassau,Princess of, 198                                                   0PPPaaastutlielsly,o,nM,Sri.Mr, rT1..,6,218339
Neave, Lord, 207

Neptune, discovery of, 29
Neruda, Madame Norman, 279
Netherlands,  Prince of                                                   Peach,     W-. 34, 38, 39, 49, 41, 42. 71,
Netherlands,  Princess     tMhea,ry94o, f95the,
                                                                    89,   J.PPeea8as9se,e, ,9M1. rsW1.5,.3,,152150555, 187, 254

   93, 94. 95, I62                                            at, 143,    Pebble Ridges, 194, 195
Newark, Viscount, 36, 37                                                  Pechell, Sir Edward, 100
Newcastle, British Association

    283                                                                   Peeopterir lzgrzitum,                            the,   295      1
Newcastle, dynamite explosion at, 53                                      Pengelly, meaning                                        name,
                                                                                                                          of the
Newlyn submarine forest, 171                                              Pengelly, Alfred, 134, 162, 245, 259
Newton,   pre-historic remains at,
Newton,                                                       276         Pengelly, John, 5
          Prof. A., 240, 251                                              Pengelly, Richard,
Nicholas, Prince, 85                                                                                                      I, 4
Nicholas 1., the Emperor, 83                                              Pengelly, Richard, jun., death of, 11
Nicholson, John,                                                          Pengelly, Sir Thomas, 1, 2
Nicol, Prof., 91    72
                                                                          Pengelly, Mrs., 50, 51, 52
Nilsson,   Prof.,   165                                                   Pengelly, \Villiarn, ancestry, birth, and
Noble,    Captain,    193
Northcote, Sir Stafford, 110                                                 christening, 1; education, 2, 3; goes
Northmore, Mr., 301                                                          to sea, 3; conversational powers, 5;
                                                                            his shipmates, 5--10; death of his
North Tawton Beekites, 110                                    ~             brother, 11 ; sense of humour, 11 ;
Norton, Mrs., 249
Norwich, British Association at, 188                                        self-education, 12, 13; early geological

Norwich Crag, 122                                                           experiences, 14 ; settles at Torquay,
                                                                            15; opens a small day-school, 16;
Norwich, hospitality at, 123, 125                                           scientific studies, 16; first marriage,
Nova Scotia, discoveries in, 91                                             16; first railway journey, 17; reor
                                                                            ganizes Torquay Mechanics' Institute,
                                                                            17; first visit to British Museum, 17;
                    O                                                       visits Southampton and Scotland, 20;
                                                                            founds the Torquay Natural History
Ojibbeway Indian woman, 98                                                  Society, 21 ; love of astronomy, 22, 36 ;
Oliver, Prof. Daniel, 140, 289                                      217,    his generosity in controversy, 23 ; gives
Oreston bones, the, 84, 85, 216,                                            up his school and becomes tutor of
                                                                            Natural Science, 24; kindness of heart,
OOOrrrmm2fo2eer7drroo, dd,,theMG.ErsaW.r,l.,2o8f23,161,25245                26, 43; has a ramble in South Wales,
Orthides, 154
Osborn, Sherard, 100                                                        t33o18,;;36einle; cNtferoidertnhdFse\hVlilpaolwews,itoh3f 3mth;eenprGoeefseosnlcoiteganitccioea,nl
Ossiferous caves, Pengelly's                                                Society, 38; Dr. Henry Woodward's
                                                                            biographical notice of, 39; death of his
                                                              work  in,     first wife, 43; his large circle of friends,
                                                                            48; joins the Quakers, 50; his second
    296                                                                     marriage, 50; his politics,
Otte', Miss, 147, 175                                                       moon of second marriage,                                  50 ;    honey
Owen, Prof. (afterwards Sir) Richard,                                                                                                 51 ;    attends

   59. 6°, 75. 811.91.95.99. 198, 135.                                      Geological Society's Meetings, 54:

    143, 144, 200, 213, 216, 226, 227, 261,

    296                                                                     visits Looe, 55; Burr Island, 57; speaks
Oxford,   Bishop of, 99, 129                                                at opening of Abbey Road School,
Oxford,   British Association at, 98                                        Torquay, 62; views on education and
          presentation of fossils to, 93                                    instruction, 62; President of Torquay
Oxford,

                                                                                                                                        Z
338 INDEX.

 Mechanics' Institute, 62; testimonial                            tion of British Association at Bristol,
 to, 62, 63; lecture on physical geo                              246; attends Devonshire Association
 graphy, 63 ; visits York and Mansfield,
 65 ; visits Manchester and Ireland, 66 ;                         Meeting at Torrington, 247; presides
  prepares to explore Brixham Cavern,                             over Geological Section of British
  74 ; testimony to his work at Brixham,                          Association at Plymouth, 251; his
  77 ; his geological discoveries, 78; his                        interest in folk-lore, 253; attends
 faith as a Christian, 78; work at the                            British Association at Dublin, 254;
 Torquay Natural History Society, 79 ;                            finishes the exploration of Kent's
 testimonial to, 79 ; work in the Devon                           Cavern, 256; his final Report on
 shire caves, 82; visits London, 83;                              Kent's Cavern, 258; death of his last
 lectures at Royal Institution, 83, 97,                           surviving son, 259 ; sits for his portrait,
  105; purchases the Oreston bones,                               261, 262 ;          his    interviewers,
 8'4; tutor to the Russian princes, 85;                                               the   Anthropological     267 ;
 concludes exploration of Brixham                                 President of                                    De
 Cavern, 88; in Scotland, 89, 248;                                partment of the British Association at
 invited to Balmoral, 91; death of a                              Southport, 268; his tour in Cornwall,
                                                                  271; declines to lecture on Kent's
 daughter, 92 ; advocates a County
 Museum of Natural History in                                     Cavern, 273; gives up all professional
 Torquay, 92; completes his collection                            work, 274; invited to become President
 of Devonian fossils, 93; examines the                            of the Falmouth Polytechnic, 275;
 deposits at Bovey, 94; completes his                             awarded the Lyell medal, 275 ; attends
 notes for fifth edition of Sir C. Lyell's                        the British Association at Manchester,
 manual, 100; correspondence with his
 son, 103; arranges the "Pengelly"                                277 ; his failing strength, 28o ; illness,
 fossils at Oxford, 104; lectures at                              281 ; his last lecture, 282 ; visits north
 Oxford, 105 ; asked to make a survey                             of England, 283; resigns Honorary
 in India, 105 ; attends British Associa                          Secretaryship of Torquay Natural His
 tion at Manchester, 112 ; his geological                         tory Society, 284; his death, 287;
 rambles, 1 16--119; lectures at Norwich,                         Rev. Prof. Bonney on his scientific
 120; at Norfolk Archceological Society,                          work, 291 ; critical and miscellaneous
 124; his large correspondence, 126;                              papers, 316, 323; accuracy of his
 his love of fun, 127; visits the Inter                           work, 323
national Exhibition of 1862, 128; his
connection with the Devonshire Asso                                                        P
ciation, 129--I33; elected F. R.S., 134,
 140; visits the House of Commons,                                Percy, Dr. 1., 54, 75, 76, 80, 83, 98, 108,
 138, 139; geological rambles, 148,
H14o9le, ,15155;9;bevgieinwsseoxnplothraetiGonulfofStKreenatm's,      160, 273, 296
 168, 169, 170; declines to be a candidate
for the Chair of Geology at Glasgow,                              Percy, Mrs., 81, 83, 108
 174; lectures at Royal Institution,                              Percy, Lady Louisa, 53
178; President of the Devonshire                                  Petitor, 320
                                                                  Pettigrew, Mr., 110
Association, 179; lectures at New
                                                                  Phillips, J. March, :42
castle-on-Tyne, 184 ; presents Fourth
Report on Kent's Cavern at British                                Phillips, Miss, 84, 105
Association at Norwich, 188; writes                               Phillips, Prof., 58, 59, 6o, 69, 7o, 90, 91,
his own epitaph, 197 ; reports on Kent's
Cavern at British Association at Edin                             98, 99, 19$. 152. 159. I69 179. I95.
burgh, 207; his interest in rainfall,                                 196, 198. 235,          237, 393
208; lectures in the North, 214, 228;                             Phillpotts, Rev.    236.    funeral of,  197
astronomical pursuits, 215; visits the
Mentone Cavern, 217; his accuracy,                                                    Dr.,
219; assists Sir C. Lyell with new
edition of "Antiquity of Man," 225;                               Phillpotts, Archdeacon, 272
his correspondence with working men,
233; lectures at Manchester, 234;                                 17101111t,he, 320
presented with a testimonial for work                                           eonrmlm'rus,
in Kent's Cavern, 235 ; visits Ireland,                           P/zyl/opeles  70            135
241, 254; loss of his friends, 244; re
ceives the Lyell Fund, 244, 245 ; reads                           Pim, Mr.,
a paper at the Anthropological Sec                                Pitcairn, Mr. and Mrs., 127
                                                                  Pleuroa'irtyum prob/emalieum, 156
                                                                  Plymouth, British Association at, 251
                                                                  Poitou, implements from, 204
                                                                  Pollieipes, a new species of, 59
                                                                  Polperro, 55, 72
                                                                  Polperro sponges and fish beds, the,

                                                                      88, 156, 185, 216, 217                    75,
                                                                  Portlock, Colonel, 54, 57, 69, 91
                                                                  Portrush, 67, 68

                                                                  Potts, Mrs., 136
                                                                  Prestwich, Prof. (now Sir) 1., 54,
                                                                  76. 77, 81. 86 87, 88, 98, 99. 192, 137,

                                                                  178, 205, 264, 296, 300
                                                       INDEX.                                                                             339

Prestwich, Mrs., 207                                                                S
Front, Samuel, 1

Prussia, Crown Princess of, 198                              Sahara, Sir C. Lyell on the, 167
Hemrpz'r, discovery of, 185, 186, 191                        Sabine, General, 69, 83
                                                             St. Germans, cathedral of, 46
                            Q                                St. John, Mr. (now Sir Spencer), 128
                                                             St. John, Mrs., 96
                                                             St.  Keyne, well of, 55
Quaker body, member of the, 49                               St.  Michael's Mount,        Sir                                  C.  Lyell  on,

                                                                                        164, 165, 160, 176, 225
                                                                            St. Prest, 142

                                   R St. Piran, legend of, 272
                                                                            Salix` a'nerea and reflux, 294
Railway travelling, 17, 47                                   SSaallmisbounr,y,ReLvo.rdD, r.8,3,14205,0 289
Raised beaches, 194, 195                                     Sanford, W. .41., 174, 179, 190, 2 37, 303,
Rame Head, 56
Ramsay, Prof. (now                 Sir) A.   C.,  59,  64,       311

75, 80, 90, 91, 135, 242, 261, 296                           sane!)     WM 57' 591 64: so: 881 981 991
Ramsay,   Prof., views on                                    128,138, 139,145, 150, 154, 158, 175,
Rankine,  Prol., 100                   glaciers,  64

Rawlinson,  LoSrird,H2.4, 9,59250                                I74, 137, 239
Rayleigh,                                                    Savage, Miss, 135
                                                             Savory, Hester, 50
Rayleigh, Lady, 249, 250                                     Sayce, Prof., 277, 281
Red Lions, the, 91, 196                                      Scharf, Mr., 189
Rehbinder, Colonel, 85, 87                                   SScchorisetssb, yc, ryDsrta.,llifnuen,er3a1l9of, 63
Restormel Castle,                                            Scotch caves, 266
Riviere, Dr., 217,  272                252,  315
                    218,
Richtofen, Baron P. von, 281
                                                             Scott, Principal, 65,  155,    173,                                   205
                                                             Se'ne'chal, Dr., 218
Rice, Mrs. Spring,                 83
Richards, Mr., 175                                           Sequoia Coutts-111',295
Richardson,  MDSii.rs,sB,18. 51W85 , 197                     Sedgwick, Prof., 4o, 58, 59, 70, 72, 91,

Richardson,                                                      98, 99, 100, 123, 156, 161, 251
Richardson,                                                  Settle caves, the, 199

Ripon, the Earl of, 83                                       Sepidw, 42      and granites ofCornwall,
RRoobbeerrttss,onI,saMacr,.,28844                            Serpentines
                                                             Shelley, Sir John, 43                                                        251

Rodriguez transit expedition, 240                            Shelley,   L"adMya, sk33,of3A6 narchy,"                               278
Robinson, Dr., 69, 91, 197                                   Shelley's

Roemer, Ferdinand, 39, 210, 269                              Shambles Oak, the, 66
Rogers, H. D., 70, 91, 107
Rogers, W. B.,                                               SSSShhhhaeaarprrppkpheeaya,r,mdM,,DrM.r3,.2,r.05,141537, 79, 296
Rolleston, Dr.,     60, 71             247,  251,      252,
                    108, 246,

2                                                            Shakespeare, Sir Richmond, 275

Rosscge, Sir Henry, 140, 254, 289                                            Mr.,
Ross, Sir James,                                             Shuttleworth,   Sir
Rosse's telescope,  8L3o' rd,          70                    Shuttleworth,          207K.,                                     96, 98,    106,

Rowe, J. Brooking, 131, 286                                      199, 205, 296
Romanes, Profi, 254                                          Sicilian caves, discoveries in, 102
Royal Irish Academy, soirée at, 71
Royal Irish Society, soirée at, 70                           Silurian fossils, 72, 154, 155, 251
Royal Society, admission of Fellows                    to,   Silurian system, 146, 147
                                                             Simonshaven, Baron de, 202
    140, 289                                                 Simpson, Sir James, 163
Roraima, Mount, 274                                          Sinclair, Archdeacon, 97
                                                             Sinclair, Sir George, 92
Rundle, Mr., 2                                               SSSikkneecayla,t,irD,Prr.Lo,af.9d,6y,,2593376, 104, 106, 128

Rupert-Jones, Thomas, 63, 77, 83, 288                        1 Slater, Mr., 240
Ruskin, Mr., 63                                                Smiles, Dr. Samuel, and wife, 279, 280,
Russia, the Grand Duchess Marie of, 88,

    89
Russia, Princess Eugenie of, 88, 89
Russian Princes, 85, 86, 87, 94. 141
Russell, Lord John, 179                                          284,  285   Abel,  138,  160,                                 161
Rustic audience, a, 44                                       Smith,
Ryan, Bishop, 214                                                      John
                                                             Smith, Miss, 138
                                                             Smith, Rev. Sydney, 50
340 INDEX.

Smith, Prof., 108                                Tite, Sir Wm., 198, 205, 217, 239, 315
Smith, Dr. George, 165                           Tolstoi, Countess, 88,
Smyth, Warington, 54, 98, 160, 272               Tomlinson, Mr., 261               S9
Smerdon, George, fund for, 259
Society of Friends, the, 49                      Toogood,     SMirr.W, .5,2 212
Somerset, Duke of, 238, 249                      Topham,
Somerset, Duchess of, 249
Sorby, Prof., 6o, 63, 65, 91, 143                Torbay elephant, the, 164, 165, 170
Southampton, British Association at, 264         Torbay, submerged forest of,
Southport, British Association at, 268           Torell, Dr. Otto, 245, 281                  164,  165

Speke, Captain, :41, 160                         Torquay, Pengelly settles at, 15
                                                 Torquay Mechanics' Institute, 17, 36
                                                 Torquay, British Association at, 102

Spratt, Admiral, 228                             Torquay, Temperance Mission at, 265
Spriggs, Mr. and Mrs., 50                        Torquay Natural History Society, 26, 31,
Spriggs, Miss Lydia, 50
Stanley, Dean,                                   35» 36, 74, 79, 13h 137, 277, 282, 284,
Stanley, Lord,  140, 289                         302; foundation of, 21
Stebbing, Rev.
                58  R.  R.,                      Torquay, fossil forest in, 320
                                           282   TToorrqriunagytonr,ainmfaelle,tin3g21of Devonshire Asso
                T.            250,   279,

Stephenson, 57                                   c1ation at, 247
Stewart, Dr., 86

Stewart, Balfour, 269, 296                       Trade winds, 167, I68, 169, 170
Stokes, Mr. (now Sir G. G.), 65, 114,            Tregelles, Miss, 55
    I97                                          Trevelyan, Sir Walter, 196, 301
Statham, Mr., 276                                Trilobites,
Stanton Drew, remains at, 281                    Tristram,     150, 152, 187,          240   81, 99,  183

                                                              Rev. Canon II.           B.,
                                                 Truro, Bishopric of,
Strelezski, Count, 138                           Tulloch, Principal,    46
Stone instruments, 313                           Tuke, Miss, 81        275
Strickland, M. G., 205
Strickland, Hugh, 205                            Tnpper, Martin Farquhar,                175
Stefanescu, Prof., 281                           Tyler, Alfred, 22, 63, 64,             107
                                                 Tylor, E. B., 219
Sturge, Joseph, 49                               Tyndall, Professor, 57,97, 103, 104, 106,
Sutherland, Dr., 36
Swansea, British Association at, 258, 259        191, I93, 201, 275, 277
Swansea, caverns at, 104
Symonds, Rev. \V. S., 58, 89, I42, 143,          I                     U

   160, 185, 191, 215, 216,217                      Ussher, Mr., 281
Symonds, Mrs., 217
Szabo, Dr., 281

                                                                             V
                    T
                                                 Vachell, Dr. and Mrs. Chas., 286
Tait, Rev. Dr., 177, 178                         Valpy, Mr., 151
Tait, Mrs., 177, 178                             Vaughan, Bishop (now Cardinal),
Talbot de Malahide, Lord, 199,                   Vaughan, Mrs., 286                                277
Taylor, Peter, M.P., 2, 214
                                     205         Verney, Lady, 53
                                                 Verney, Sir Harry, 53, 161, 193, 199
Teck,   Princess Mary of,  C1lu40b,  269         Verney, Miss, 198
Teign,  Naturalist Field

Teignmouth Conglomerates, 87                     Veryan   Bay,  251    110,
                                                 Vicary,   W.,   109,
Temple, Bishop, 218, 219                                                               131,   137,    141,
Tennant, Mr., 61, 97, 106, 134, 135,
                                                 I41, 151, 152, 155. 173, I78, 282
                                                 Victoria Institute,
    138, 178                                     Vincent, Mr., 86      the,        317
Tennyson, Mrs. (now Lady), 198
                                                 Vivian, Edward, 21, 26, 42, 60, 63, 73,
Thackeray, Mr., 275
Thompson, Dr. (now Sir Henry),             108,  94, 161, 162, 175, 189, 196, 211, 218,

    27      Dr. Allen,  114,  249,   252, 261        236, 242, 286, 296, 302, 303
Thoritson,                                       Vivian, Mrs., death of, 48
Thomson, Sir Wm. (now Lord Kelvin),              Volcanic rocks, 173

    70, 249, 264              319                                              \V
Thoresby, Colonel, 296                              \Vagner, H., 160
Thurlstone Rock, the, 250,                       l \Valte, Staniland, 228

'l`hurm, Mr. im, 274
Tiger, sabre-toothed, 309
Tillner, Dr., 87
                                                        INDEX.                                                         341

Wakefield, T. C., 72                                                WWoollflaf,stoJons,epMh,r.,51175
Waldegrave, Mr., 212                                                Wood, Colonel,
                                                Prince of, 251,     Woodward, Dr.    142                     39, 138,  150,
          sons of H.R.H.                                                              Henry,

Wa2le5gs,                                                               197, 282
Walker, Prof., 99, 100, 181
                                                                    Woodward, S. P., 135, 160
Walker, Mrs., 181
Wallace, A. R., 73, 153, 197, 198, 261                              Wookey Hole,     257    214
Walpole, Mr., 125, 138                                              Woolner, Mr.,
\Vard, Dr. Nathaniel, 128                                           Worthington,   M2r7.3,
Ward, Rev. T. H., 167
Watson, Sir James, 249, 260, 268, 279                               \Vright, Dr. Thomas, 59
Webster, Prof., 18, 19                                              Wright, Prof. G.       F.,
Wellesley, Lady Charles, 93, 106                                    Wright (F.S.A.),       T.,        285    111
                                                                                                       110,

Wellington, Duke of, 85                                             Wren, Mr.,   2L4o7rd,   58,       69,    98,  100
West Looe, 32,156                                                   Wrottesley,
Westwood, Prof., 108
                                                                    Wyndham, Captain, 124
                                                                    Wyndham, General, 105, 106

Whale, remains of a, 187, 321                                    .                          Y
Whalley Abbey, 269                                               ,
Wheatstone, Mr., 18, 65, 97, 103, 106,
                                                                 `
    108, 196
                                                                 '` Yates, Mr., 108
Whitaker, \V., 259                                                  Yealm River, the, 56
Whewell,    PEHrMao.rrf,.l.,,2o8f91,383,385141                      Yealmton Cave, 84.
White, G.                                                        I
Whiteside,
Wicklow,                                                         l York, British Association at, 261
                                                                    York Museum, fossils in, 205
                                                                    Yorke, Mrs., 64, 86, 100, 162
Wilberforce, Canon, 265                                          1 Young, John, 108
Williams, Mrs., 55
                              .                                  l
Williams, Mrs. Bridges, I48
Wilmot, Col. F. M. E., 289
\Vilson,  GW.i,lli6a4m,
Wilson,                  17,  65                                    Zitter, Miss, 198
Windmill Hill Cave,           83,
                                                   297
Wolfe, Rev. Prebendary, 109, 286

                                                        THE END.

            LONDON                              Z  PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,     LIMITED,
                                                   STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS
             "JV`v-v'u-f  _,, __

'7--> _ '7`
'Y \-\74
`H0` \ `Cwd  `5
                - - --l---n-n  ' `1,

            u.

  11
l" i3Pt '~

  if;
              UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
sci
550.9 P37p
Pengelly, William, 1812-1894.
A memoir of William Pengelly, of Torqua

              II II II

        1951 000 946 576
3
                                          F

                                                           IIIIIIIIIIIIII

                                                                           Minnesota Libra 3 3 5

