LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                                OF

THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY

                                                               BY HIS SON

                  LEONARD HUXLEY

                                      IN TWO VOLUMES
                                                     VOL. I

                                          ILonitm

                MACMILLAN AND CO., Limited

                                                      1900
                                                     All rights reserved

First Edition October 1900
Reprinted November 1900

-9HAY  1350

                  PREFACE

My father's life was one of so many interests, and his work
was at all times so diversified, that to follow each thread
separately, as if he had been engaged on that alone for a
time, would be to give a false impression of his activity and
the peculiar character of his labours. All through his active
career he was equally busy with research into nature, with
studies in philosophy, with teaching and administrative
work. The real measure of his energy can only be found
when all these are considered together. Without this there
can be no conception of the limitations imposed upon him
in his chosen life's work. The mere amount of his research
is greatly magnified by the smallness of the time allowed
for it.

       But great as was the impression left by these researches
in purely scientific circles, it is not by them alone that he
made his impression upon the mass of his contemporaries.
They were chiefly moved by something over and above his

wide knowledge in so many fields -- by his passionate

sincerity, his interest not only in pure knowledge, but in
human life, by his belief that the interpretation of the book
of nature was not to be kept apart from the ultimate pro
blems of existence ; by the love of truth, in short, both
theoretical and practical, which gave the key to the character
of the man himself.

      Accordingly, I have not discussed with any fulness the
value of his technical contributions to natural science ; I

LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

have not drawn up a compendium of his philosophical views.

One is a work for specialists ; the other can be gathered
from his published works. I have endeavoured rather to

give the public a picture, so far as I can, of the man himself,

of his aims in the many struggles in which he was engaged,
of his character and temperament, and the circumstances

under which his various works were begun and completed.

     So far as possible, I have made his letters, or extracts
from them, tell the story of his life. If those of any given

period are diverse in tone and character, it is simply because
they reflect an equal diversity of occupations and interests.
Few of the letters, however, are of any great length ; many
are little more than hurried notes ; others, mainly of private

interest, supply a sentence here and there to fill in the

general outline.          circumstances  Ipermit,  have en
      Moreover, whenever

deavoured to make my own part in the book entirely
impersonal. My experience is that the constant iteration
by the biographer of his relationship to the subject of his

memoir, can become exasperating to the reader ; so that at
the risk of offending in the opposite direction, I have chosen

the other course.

    Lastly, I have to express my grateful thanks to all who

have sent me letters or supplied information, and especially

to Dr. J. H. Gladstone, Sir Mountstuart Grant Duff, Pro
fessor Howes, Professor Henry Sidgwick, and Sir Spencer

Walpole, for their contributions to the book ; but above all
to Sir Joseph Hooker and Sir Michael Foster, whose

invaluable help in reading proofs and making suggestions
has been, as it were, a final labour of love for the memory of

their old friend.

                                                   L. H.

                  CONTENTS          rACl
                                        I
        CHAP.
                                         15
         I- ( 1825-1842) .             29
                                      41
      II. (1841-1846) .
    III. '1846-1849) .                   55
                                       7"
      IV. '1848-1850) .               87
        V. [1850-1851) .             108
     VI. ;185i-1854) .
                                    127
   VII. ( 1851-1853) .                131
  VIII. ( 1854)                      143
                                    153
     IX. :1855)                     166

       X. [1855-1858) .              175
                                    190
     XL (1857-1858) .              209
   XII. | 1859-1860) .             229
  XIII. (1859)                     249
  XIV. ( 1 859-1860) .             262
                                   273
     XV. 1860-1863) .       . 285
                                   294
   XVI. ( 1860-1861) .      . 307
 XVII. ( 1861-1863) .                322
XVIII. ( 1864)
   XIX. ;1865)

    XX. '1866)
   XXI. ( 1867)

 XXII. [1868)
XXIII. ;1869)
XXIV. ( 1870)

                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  356
                                           366
    XXV. (i 87 1)
   XXVI. (1872)                            405
 XXVII. (1873)                             427
XXVIII. (1874)                             442
  XXIX. (1875-1876)                        456
    XXX. (1875-1876)                       473
  XXXI. (1876)                             485
 XXXII. (1877)
XXXIII. (1878)

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Portrait from a Daguerrotype made in 1846                 Frontispiece

Facsimile of Sketch, "The Loves and Graces" .  .          On page 77

Portrait from a Photograph by Maull and Polyblank,

1857  .                                              . To face page 149
                                              After
No. 4 Marlborough Place --from the Garden.  . ,, ,, 383

a Water-colour Sketch by R. Huxley

Portrait from a Photograph by Elliott and Fry ; Steel

Engraving in Nature, February 5, 1874 ·        ·       »  » 4°5


                   CHAPTER I

                   1825-1842

In the year 1825 Ealing was as quiet a country village as

could be found within a dozen miles of Hyde Park Corner.

Here stood a large semi-public school, which had risen to

the front rank in numbers and reputation under Dr. Nicholas,

of Wadham College, Oxford, who in 1 79 1 became the son-
in-law and successor of the previous master.

The senior assistant-master in this school was George

Huxley, a tall, dark, rather full-faced man, quick tempered,
and distinguished, in his son's words, by " that glorious

firmness which one's enemies called obstinacy." In the year

1 8 1 o he had married Rachel Withers ; she bore five sons
and three daughters, of whom one son and one daughter

died in infancy ; the seventh and youngest surviving child

was Thomas Henry.

      George Huxley, the master at Ealing, was the second
son of Thomas Huxley and Margaret James, who were

married at St. Michael's, Coventry, on September 8, 1773.
This Thomas Huxley continued to live at Coventry until

his death in January 1796, when he left behind him a large

family and no very great wealth. The most notable item
in the latter is the " capital Messuage, by me lately pur

chased of Mrs. Ann Thomas," which he directs to be sold
to pay his debts -- an inn, apparently, for the testator is

described as a victualler. Family tradition tells that he
came to Coventry from Lichfield, and if so, he and his sons

after him exemplify the tendency to move south, which is

to be observed in those of the same name who migrated

VOL. I                        B

2  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y  chap, 1

 from their original home in Cheshire. This home is repre
sented to-day by a farm in the Wirral, about eight miles
from Chester, called Huxley Hall. From this centre Huxleys

spread to the neighbouring villages, such as Overton and
 Eccleston, Clotton and Duddon, Tattenhall and Wettenhall ;

others to Chester and Brindley near Nantwich. The south

ward movement carries some to the Welsh border, others

into Shropshire. The Wettenhall family established them

selves in the fourth generation at Rushall, and held property

in Handsworth and Walsall ; the Brindley family sent a

branch to Macclesfield, whose representative, Samuel, must

have been on the town council when the Young Pretender

rode through on his way to Derby, for he was mayor in
 1 746 ; while at the end of the sixteenth century, George,
the disinherited heir of Brindley, became a merchant in
London, and purchased Wyre Hall at Edmonton, where his

descendants lived for four generations, his grandson being

knighted by Charles II in 1663.

       But my father had no particular interest in tracing his
early ancestry. " My own genealogical inquiries," he said,

" have taken me so far back that I confess the later stages

do not interest me." Towards the end of his life, however,

my mother persuaded him to see what could be found out
about Huxley Hall and the origin of the name. This proved
to be from the manor of Huxley or Hodesleia, whereof one

Swanus de Hockenhull was enfeoffed by the abbot and

convent of St. Werburgh in the time of Richard I. Of the
grandsons of this Swanus, the eldest kept the manor
and name of Hockenhull (which is still extant in the

Midlands) ; the younger ones took their name from the
other fief.

      But the historian of Cheshire records the fact that owing
to the respectability of the name, it was unlawfully assumed
by divers " losels and lewd fellows of the baser sort," and
my father, with a fine show of earnestness, used to declare
that he was certain the legitimate owners of the name were

far too sober and respectable to have produced such a
reprobate as himself, and one of these " losels " must be his

progenitor.
     Thomas Henry Huxley was born at Ealing on May 4,

                          EARLY LIFE                                      3

"I1825, "about eight o'clock in the morning."1                    am not

aware," he tells us playfully in his Autobiography, " that

any portents preceded my arrival in this world, but, in my
childhood, I remember hearing a traditional account of the

manner in which I lost the chance of an endowment of

great practical value. The windows of my mother's room
were open, in consequence of the unusual warmth of the

weather. For the same reason, probably, a neighbouring

beehive had swarmed, and the new colony, pitching on the

window-sill, was making its way into the room when the
Ifhorrified nurse shut down the sash.
                                                   that well-meaning

woman had only abstained from her ill-timed interference,

the swarm might have settled on my lips, and I should have

been endowed with that mellifluous eloquence which, in this

country, leads far more surely than worth, capacity, or

honest work, to the highest places in Church and State.

But the opportunity was lost, and I have been obliged to
content myself through life with saying what I mean in the
plainest of plain language, than which, I suppose, there is no

habit more ruinous to a man's prospects of advancement."

     As to his debt, physical and mental, to either parent, he

writes as follows :--

Physically I am the son of my mother so completely -- even

down to peculiar movements of the hands, which made their
                         me as I reached                          I noticed
Iathpepmea--rantcheatin                   the age she had when
                         can hardly find  any trace of my father  in myself,

except an inborn faculty for drawing, which, unfortunately, in my

case, has never been cultivated, a hot temper, and that amount

of tenacity of purpose which unfriendly observers sometimes call

obstinacy.

      My mother was a slender brunette, of an emotional and energetic

temperament, and possessed of the most piercing black eyes I ever

saw in a woman's head. With no more education than other

women of the middle classes in her day, she had an excellent

Ifmental capacity. Her most distinguishing characteristic, however,
was rapidity of thought.  one ventured to suggest that she had

not taken much           time to arrive at any     conclusion, she would  say,
                         it ; things flash across  me." That peculiarity  has
" I cannot help

been passed on to me in full strength ; it has often stood me in

good stead ; it has sometimes played me sad tricks, and it has

1 So in the Autobiography, but 9. 30 according to the Family Bible.

4            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                   chap, 1

Ialways been a danger. But, after all, if my time were to come over

again, there is nothing would less willingly part with than my
inheritance of mother-wit.

      Restless, talkative, untiring to the day of her death, she
was at sixty-six " as active and energetic as a young woman."

His early devotion to her was remarkable.           Describing her

to his future wife he writes :--

   IAs a child my love for her was a passion.       have lain awake
Ifor hours crying because
                           had a morbid fear of her death ; her

approbation was my greatest reward, her displeasure my greatest

punishment.
   I have next to nothing to say about my childhood (he con
tinues in the Autobiography). In later years my mother, looking
at me almost reproachfully, would sometimes say, " Ah ! you were
such a pretty boy!" whence I had no difficulty in concluding that
I had not fulfilled my early promise in the matter of looks. In
fact, I have a distinct recollection of certain curls of which I was
Ivain, and of a conviction that
                                 closely resembled that handsome,

courtly gentleman, Sir Herbert Oakley, who was vicar of our parish,

and who was as a god to us country folk, because he was occasion

ally visited by the then Prince George of Cambridge. I remember

turning my pinafore wrong side forwards in order to represent a

surplice, and preaching to my mother's maids in the kitchen as

nearly as possible in Sir Herbert's manner one Sunday morning

when the rest of the family were at church. That is the earliest

indication of the   strong clerical affinities which my   friend                      Mr.
Herbert Spencer    has always ascribed to me, though
                                                         I fancy                      they

have for the most part remained in a latent state.

   There remains no record of his having been a very pre

cocious child. Indeed, it is usually the eldest child whose

necessary companionship with his elders wins him this

reputation. The youngest remains a child among children

longer than any other of his brothers and sisters.

      One talent, however, displayed itself early. The faculty
of drawing he inherited from his father. But on the queer

principle that training is either unnecessary to natural

capacity or even ruins he never received regular instruction
   a

                    ;

                                    it,
                                                 it

                                                                                  it
in drawing and his draughtsmanship, vigorous as                                       was,

and genuine medium of artistic expression as well as an

admirable instrument in his own especial work, never reached

the technical perfection of which was naturally capable.

   The amount of instruction, indeed of any kind, which

                            SCHOOLING                                 5

he received was scanty in the extreme. For a couple of
years, from the age of eight to ten, he was given a taste of

the unreformed public school life, where, apart from the
rough and ready mode of instruction in vogue and the

necessary obedience enforced to certain rules, no means

were taken to reach the boys themselves, to guide them and
help them in their school life. The new-comer was left to
struggle for himself in a community composed of human
beings at their most heartlessly cruel age, untempered by
any external influence.

      Here he had little enough of mental discipline, or that
deliberate training of character which is a leading object of

modern education. On the contrary, what he learnt was a
knowledge of undisciplined human nature.

     My regular school training (he tells us), was of the briefest,
perhaps fortunately ; for though my way of life has made me

acquainted with all sorts and conditions of men, from the highest
Ito the lowest,  deliberately affirm that the society I fell into at
Ischool was the worst have ever known. We boys were average

lads, with much the same inherent capacity for good and evil as

any others ; but the people who were set over us cared about
as much for our intellectual and moral welfare as if they were baby-

farmers. We were left to the operation of the struggle for existence
among ourselves ; bullying was the least of the ill practices current

among us. Almost the only cheerful reminiscence in connection

with the place which arises in my mind is that of a battle I had
with one of my classmates, who had bullied me until I could stand
it no longer. I was a very slight lad, but there was a wild-cat

Ielement in me which, when roused, made up for lack of weight,

and licked my adversary effectually. However, one of my first

experiences of the extremely rough-and-ready nature of justice, as

ItehxahtibIit--edthbey  of                                           out of the fact
 the course                 things   in   gwehneilreal,hea--rosthee
                         a  black   eye,                              vanquished --
victor -- had

had none, so that got into disgrace and he did not. We made
Iit up, and thereafter was unmolested.
                                          One of the greatest shocks
I ever received in my life was to be told a dozen years afterwards

by the groom who brought me my horse in a stable-yard in Sydney

that he was my quondam antagonist. He had a long story of

family misfortune to account for his position ; but at that time it

was necessary to deal very cautiously with mysterious strangers in

New South Wales, and on inquiry I found that the unfortunate

young man had not only been "sent out," but had undergone more

than one colonial conviction.

6  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y           chap, 1

   His brief school career was happily cut short by the

break up of the Ealing establishment.  On the death of

Dr. Nicholas, his sons attempted to carry on the school ; but

the numbers declined rapidly, and George Huxley, about
1835, returned to his native town of Coventry, where he
obtained the modest post of manager of the Coventry savings

bank, while his daughters eked out the slender family re

sources by keeping school.
      In the meantime the boy Tom, as he was usually called,

got little or no regular instruction. But he had an inquiring

mind, and a singularly early turn for metaphysical speculation.
He read everything he could lay hands on in his father's

library. Not satisfied with the ordinary length of the day,
he used, when a boy of twelve, to light his candle before

dawn, pin a blanket round his shoulders, and sit up in bed
to read Hutton's Geology. He discussed all manner of

questions with his parents and friends, for his quick and eager

mind made it possible for him to have friendships with people

considerably older than himself. Among these may especi
ally be noted his medical brother-in-law, Dr. Cooke of

Coventry, who had married his sister Ellen in 1839, and

through whom he early became interested in human anatomy ;

and George Anderson May, at that time in business at

Hinckley (a small weaving centre some dozen miles distant
from Coventry), whom his friends who knew him afterwards

in the home which he made for himself on the farm at

   Elford, near Tamworth, will remember for his genial spirit

and native love of letters. There was a real friendship

between the two. The boy of fifteen notes down with

pleasure his visits to the man of six-and-twenty, with whom

   he could talk freely of the books he read, and the ideas

   he gathered about philosophy.

       Afterwards, however, their ways lay far apart, and I

   believe they did not meet again until the seventies, when
   Mr. May sent his children to be educated in London, and

   his youngest son was at school with me ; his younger

   daughter studied art at the Slade School with my sisters,

   and both found a warm welcome in the home circle at

   Marlborough Place.

   One of his boyish speculations was as to what would

1838 EARLY PURSUITS                                                    7

become of things if their qualities were taken away ; and

lighting upon Sir William Hamilton's Logic, he devoured it

to such good effect that when, years afterwards, he came to

tackle the greater philosophers, especially the English and

the German, he found he had already a clear notion of where

the key of metaphysic lay.

This early interest in metaphysics was another form of

the intense curiosity to discover the motive principle of

things, the why and how they act, that appeared in the

boy's love of engineering and of anatomy. The unity of

this motive and the accident which bade fair to ruin his life

at the outset, and actually levied a lifelong tax         upon    his

bodily vigour, are best told in his own words :--

    As I grew older, my great desire was to be a mechanical
engineer, but the fates were against this, and while very young I

commenced the study of medicine under a medical brother-in-law.

I IBut, though the Institute of Mechanical  Engineers would certainly
                                            not all along been a sort
not own me, am not sure that have                    I am now occasion
of mechanical
ally horrified  Iengineer in partibus infidelium.  knew or cared about

                to think how little ever
medicine as the art of healing. The only part of my professional

course which really and deeply interested me was physiology, which

is the mechanical engineering of living machines ; and, notwith

Istanding that natural science has been my proper business, am
afraid there is very little of the genuine naturalist in me. I never

Icollected anything, and species work was always a burden to me ;

what cared for was the architectural and engineering part of the

business, the working out the wonderful unity of plan in the thou

sands and thousands of diverse living constructions, and the modifica
tions of similar apparatuses to serve diverse ends. The extraordinary
Iattraction felt towards
Iture nearly proved fatal
                the study of  the intricacies of          living   struc
                to me at the                              mere
                              outset.              was a          boy --
I Ithink between thirteen and fourteen years of age -- when
                                                                  was

taken by some older student friends of mine to the first post-mortem

examination I ever attended. All my life I have been most un

fortunately sensitive to the disagreeables which attend anatomical

I Ipursuits, but on this occasion my curiosity overpowered all other
feelings, and spent two or three hours in gratifying it.  did not

cut myself, and none of the ordinary symptoms of dissection-poison
Isupervened, but poisoned I was somehow, and remember sinking
Iinto a strange state of apathy. By way of a last chance,
                                                                  was

Isent to the care of some good, kind people, friends of my father's,

who lived in a farmhouse in the heart of Warwickshire. remember

8                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY   chap, 1

staggering from my bed to the window on the bright spring morn

ing after my arrival, and throwing open the casement. Life seemed

to come back on the wings of the breeze, and to this day the faint

odour of wood-smoke, like that which floated across the farmyard
I Iin the early morning, is as good to me as the " sweet south upon a
bed of violets."  soon recovered, but for years suffered from

occasional paroxysms of internal pain, and from that time my con

stant friend, hypochondriacal dyspepsia, commenced his half-century

of co-tenancy of my fleshly tabernacle.

     Some little time after his return from the voyage of the
Rattlesnake, Huxley succeeded in tracing his good Warwick

shire friends again. A letter of May n, 1852, from one

of them, Miss K. Jaggard, tells how they had lost sight of
the Huxleys after their departure from Coventry ; how they

were themselves dispersed by death, marriage, or retirement ;
and then proceeds to draw a lively sketch of the long
delicate-looking lad, which clearly refers to this period or a

little later.

   My brother and sister who were living at Grove Fields when

...you visited there, have now retired from the cares of business, and
are living very comfortably at Leamington.   I suppose you

remember Mr. Joseph Russell, who used to live at Avon Dassett.

He is now married and gone to live at Grove Fields, so that it is

still occupied by a person of the same name as when you knew it.

But it is very much altered in appearance since the time when such

merry   and joyous parties of aunts  and     coouf s"inTsomusedHutxoleyass"em(wbhleo
there.                               talked
         I assure you we have often

was sometimes one of the party) looking so thin and ill, and pre

tending to make hay with one hand, while in the other he held a

German book ! Do you remember it ? And the picnic at Scar

Bank? And how often too your patience was put to the test in

looking for your German books which had been hidden by some of

those playful companions who were rather less inclined for learning

than yourself?

     It is interesting to see from this letter and from a

journal, to be quoted hereafter, that he had thus early begun
to teach himself German, an undertaking more momentous
in its consequences than the boy dreamed of. The know
ledge of German thus early acquired was soon of the utmost
service in making him acquainted with the advance of

biological investigation on the continent at a time when few

1840                                                                        9

indeed among English men of science were able to follow it

at first hand, and turn the light of the newest theories upon

their own researches.

     It is therefore peculiarly interesting to note the cause
which determined the young Huxley to take up the study of
so little read a language. I have more than once heard him

say that this was one half of the debt he owed to Carlyle,

the other half being an intense hatred of shams of every sort

and kind. The translations from the German, the constant

references to German literature and philosophy, fired him to

try the vast original from which these specimens were

quarried, for the sake partly of the literature, but still more
of the philosophy. The translation of Wilheltn Meister, and

some of the Miscellaneous Essays together, with The French

Revolution, were certainly among works of Carlyle with

which he first made acquaintance, to be followed later by
Sartor Resartus, which for many years afterwards was his

Enchiridion, as he puts it in an unpublished autobiographical

fragment.

      By great good fortune, a singularly interesting glimpse
of my father's life from the age of fifteen onwards has been

preserved in the shape of a fragmentary journal which he

entitled, German fashion, Thoughts and Doings. Begun
on September 29, 1 840, it is continued for a couple of

years, and concludes with some vigorous annotations in

1845, when the little booklet emerged from a three years'
oblivion at the bottom of an old desk. Early as this

           is,

                    it

                                                  :
journal        in the boy displays three habits afterwards

characteristic of the man the habit of noting down any strik

ing thought or saying he came across in the course of his

reading; of speculating on the causes of things and discussing
the right and wrong of existing institutions and of making
                                                     it

                                                                :
                                                                         ;
scientific experiments, using them to correct his theories.

      The first entry, the heading, as were, and keynote of
                       quotation from Novalis -- " Philosophy can
all the rest,  is
                   ;a
bake no bread but can prove for us God, freedom, and
                       it
                                it is
immortality. Which, now, more practical, Philosophy or
Economy " The reference here given
                                                                            to German
           ?                                         is
                                                                a

edition of Novalis, so that seems highly probable that the

boy had learnt enough of the language to translate a bit for

IO              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                     chap, i

himself, though, as appears from entries in 1 841, he had

still to master the grammar completely.
      In science, he was much interested in electricity; he

makes a galvanic battery " in view of experiment to get

crystallized carbon. Got it deposited, but not crystallized."

Other experiments and theorizing upon them are recorded

in the following year. Another entry showing the courage

of youth, deserves mention :--
     " Oct. 5 (1840). -- Began speculating on the cause of

colours at sunset. Has any explanation of them ever been
attempted?" which is supplemented by an extract "from old
book."

      We may also remark the early note of Radicalism and
resistance to anything savouring of injustice or oppression,
together with the naive honesty of the admission that his

opinions may change with years.

       Oct. 25  --(atAgHrieneckwleityh).  h--imRepaadrtly.D--r. IS.shoSumldithsayonthatthea   Divine
Government.                                                                                  general

abbeolieuNftoivtnh.eh2ir2si.g--dhotc. ttor. in.mesaHkaewdoDuailsdsloehnnagtveertsaalpkvaeywryicthhinujrumcrhiyourmasteoestfh--feecrat naodnndwmhfoearttahhlsee.rr
Ithere ought
Inot in both                                      maintain that there ought
Ihence ?        ctoasebse--any   Establishment.   be my opinion ten years
                                wonder what will

            think now that it is against all laws of justice to force

men to support a church with whose opinions they cannot con

scientiously agree. The argument that the rate is so small is very
fallacious. It is as much a sacrifice of principle to do a little

wrong as    to  do(Haincgkreleayt ).on--e.  Had  a long argument with     Mr.                May
      Nov.  22

Ion the nature of the soul and the difference between it and matter.

  maintained that it could not be proved that matter is essentially --
as to its base -- different from soul. Mr. M. wittily said, soul was

the perspiration of matter.

    We cannot find the absolute basis of matter : we only know it

by its properties ; neither know we the soul in any other way.

Cogito ergo sum is the only thing that we certainly know.

    Why may not soul and matter be of the same substance (i.e.
basis  wpehreresoen--toitfixmuqsutalithiaevs,e  for we cannot suppose a   quality to
exist                                           a something to qualify),   but with

different    qualities.    t--henthisanEoEnone--nduaedsowmieththianlgl  with no quality
     Let                                                                the intelligence,
            us suppose
but that     of existence
mental qualities, and that in the highest degree --is God. This

1841 EARLY JOURNAL                                                                                                               11

combination of intelligence with existence we may suppose to have

existed from eternity.               At the creation we may suppose that a

portion of the Eon was               nseaptaurraatledlawfr--omthatht e   intelligence, and it                                 was
ordained -- it became a                                                 it should have the                                    pro
perties of gravitation, etc. -- that
                                                   that should give to man the
                                     is
                                                     is,
                                                            it

                                                                                  is
                                                                                                      it
ideas of those properties. The Eon in this state                                         matter in the

abstract. Matter, then,              Eon in the simplest form in which

possesses qualities appreciable by the senses. Out of this matter,

by the superimposition of fresh qualities, was made all things that

are.

                                                 1841

      Jan.     20--. --CaWmheat  to Rotherhithe.*
      June     7.                 have done in         the  way of acquiring                      knowledge
                         ?           I
since January               --                   3 j)
      Projects begun
                                                                           5,
               1. German
                                                               I
               2. Italian
                   To read Miiller's Physiology,
               3.

               4.  To prepare for the Matriculation Examination at London
                                                                                                  --
                   (a)UnAivlgeerbsirtay--wGheicohmeretqryuires dikdnonowtlebdeggeinotfo:                                 for  this
                                                                                                   read

                   (6) Natural Philosophy                   till April.

                   (d) GChreeemki--stryLa. tin.(e) (c)
                            English History down to end of seventeenth

               5.                 century.                                               read.

                   (/) Ancient History.

                           English Grammar.

                   To make copious notes of all things

      Projects completed--                             and stuck to these pretty

            1. Partly. 2. Not at all.

                          closely.

               4. (e) Read as far as Henry III. in Hume.

                   (a)      Evolution and involution.
                   (b)      LRaewfrsacotifocnomofbilnigahtito--n --Polmaruisstatrioenad
                                                                                         partly.
                                                                                          them
it I                                                                                              over                   again.
                  (c)
                                    is(/)(</) Nothing.
                          Nothing.
                                                            1

                             I
                                        I

                                                              it
                                                                          is

                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                        a
      must get on faster than this.                    must adopt fixed plan of

isntugdie--s,  for unless this done              find time slips away without                                            know
               and let me remember   this -- that                                                                          little
                                                                        better to read

                                     See Chap. II.

12                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                    chap, 1

and thoroughly, than cram a crude undigested mass into my head,

though it be great in quantity.                     I  have        ever   stuck  to --
     (This is about the only resolution

I I1845).                                                                        used

     [Well do remember how in that little narrow surgery
to work morning after morning and evening after evening at that
insufferably dry and profitless book, Hume's History, how I worked

against hope through the series of thefts, robberies, and throat-

Icutting in those three first volumes, and how at length gave up

the task in utter disgust and despair.

    Macintosh's History, on the other hand, I remember reading

with great pleasure, and also Guizot's Civilisation in Europe, the

scientific theoretical form of the latter especially pleased me, but

the want of sufficient knowledge to test his conclusions was a great

drawback. 1845].

    There follow notes of work done in successive weeks --

June 20 to August 9, and September 27 to October 4.
History, German, Mathematics, Physics, Physiology ; makes

an electro-magnet ;                reads Guizot's   aHnisteoxrcyelloefntCivwiloisrkat--ionveriny
Europe, on which                   he remarks "

tough reading, though."

     At the beginning of October, under " Miscellaneous,"
" Became acquainted with constitution of French Chambre

des deputes and their parties."                     any sayings that struck

     It was his practice to note
him :--

    ITruths          :"     hate   all  people who  want to found  sects.   It is not
                                    is  not error   but sectarian  error,
error but            sects  -- it                                          nay, and

even sectarian truth, which causes the unhappiness of mankind."
-- Lessing.
     " It is only necessary to
I see no fault committed that           Igrow old to become more indulgent.
-- G"oeOtnhee. solitary philosopher
                                             have not committed myself. . . ."
the midst of poverty, but not
                                         may be     great,   virtuous,    and happy in
                                        a whole     nation.               Isaac Iselin.
                                                               . . ." --

                                        1842

    Jan. 30, Sunday Ievening. -- have for some time been pondering
over a classification of knowledge. My scheme is to divide all

ktinveow--letdhgate  in the first place into two grand divisions. I. Objec
                     for which a man is indebted to the external world ; and

1842

2. Subjective -- that which he has acquired or may acquire by in
ward contemplation.

                                         Subjective                        Objective
                                       Metaphysics
                                                     Moriali1ty     Hist.       |            1
     r~                                                                    Physiology  Physics

Metaphys. proper Maths. Logic Theology

      Metaphysics comes immediately,                  of course, under the first (2)
                                                     of the mind to itself ; of this
head -- that is to say, the relations

Mathematics and Logic, together with Theology, are branches.

    I am in doubt under which head to put morality, for I cannot

determine exactly in my own mind whether morality can exist

independent of others, whether the idea of morality could ever

have arisen in the mind of an isolated being or not. I am rather

inclined to the opinion that it is objective.

Under the head of objective knowledge comes first Physics,

including the whole body of the relations of inanimate unorganised

bodies; secondly, Physiology. Including the structure and func

tions of animal bodies, including language and Psychology ; thirdly

comes History.
One object for which I have attempted to form an arrangement
of knowledge is that I may test the amount of my own acquire
Iments.
            shall form an extensive list of subjects on this plan, and
I Ias -acquire any one of them shall strike it out of the list. May
Ithe list soon get black ! though at present I shall hardly be able,
   am afraid, to spot the paper.

(A prophecy ! a prophecy, 1845
            1
     April
                                                a
Carlyle's                                                      ').
            Mi8sc4e2llainnetrooudsuceWs ritingnsu, mb"eCrhaorfacqteuroitsatitciosn,"s  from
                                                                                       some

clear and crisp, others sinking into Carlyle's own vein of

speculative mysticism, e.g.

" In the mind as in the body the sign of health                                       unconscious
                                                                           is is
ness."                                            but the upper surface that we shape intois

     " Of our thinking
                                   ;

                                        it
                                              is
articulate thought underneath the region of argument and con

scious discourse lies the region of meditation."

"Genius ever secret to itself."
            is                     a

"The healthy understanding, we should say,                                            neither the

argumentative nor the Logical, but the Intuitive, for the end of

buenldiee"vrseTtha"endaignegs      not to prove    and find         reasons but to know and
      it                       of  heroism are    not ages of       Moral Philosophy. Virtue,
          is

             (!)
                      is
when        philosophised of, has become aware of itself, sickly and

beginning to decline."

14       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, 1

     At the same time more electrical experiments are

recorded ; and theories are advanced with pros and cons to
account for the facts observed.

     The last entry was made three years later--

    IOct. 1845. -- have found  singular pleasure --  h--aviningloaockciindgentoavlelyr

raked this Biichlein from a    corner of my desk

these scraps of notices of my past existence ; an illustration of

J. Paul's saying that a man has but to write down his yesterday's
doings, and forthwith they appear surrounded with a poetic halo.

       IBut after all, these are but the top skimmings of these five years'
living.  hardly care to look back into the seething depths of the

working and boiling mass that lay beneath all this froth, and

indeed I hardly know whether I could give myself any clear

account of it. Remembrances of physical and mental pain . . .

absence of sympathy, and thence a choking up of such few ideas

as I did form clearly within my own mind.
    IGrief too, yet at the misfortune of others, for have had few

Iproperly my own ; so much the worse, for in that case might have

said or done somewhat, but here was powerless.

       Oh, Tom, trouble not thyself about sympathy ; thou hast two

stout legs and young, wherefore need a staff?

       Furthermore, it is twenty minutes past two, and time to go to

bed.

       Biichlein, it will be long before my secretiveness remains so

quiet again ; make the most of what thou hast got.

                  CHAPTER II

                          1841-1846

The migration to Rotherhithe, noted under date of January

9, 1841, was a fresh step in his career. In 1839 both his
sisters married, and both married doctors. Dr. Cooke, the

husband of the elder sister, who was settled in Coventry,

had begun to give him some instruction in the principles
of medicine as early as the preceding June. It was now
arranged that he should go as assistant to Mr. Chandler, of

Rotherhithe, a practical preliminary to walking the hospitals

and obtaining a medical degree in London. His experiences
                                            the East of London --
among    the poor in the  dock region of    parish -- supplied him
for Dr.   Chandler had    charge of the

with a grim commentary on his diligent reading in Carlyle.

Looking back on this period, he writes :--

      The last recorded speech of Professor Teufelsdrockh proposes
the toast ' Die Sache der Armen in Gottes und Teufels-namen '

(The cause of the Poor in Heaven's name and    's.) The cause
of the Poor is the burden of Past and Present, Chartism, and

... ILatter-Day Pamphlets. To me . . . this advocacy of the cause of
the poor appealed very strongly . . . because  had had the

opportunity of seeing for myself something of the way the poor

live. Not much, indeed, but still enough to give a terrible founda

tion of real knowledge to my speculations.

     After telling how he came to know something of the
East End, he proceeds : --

I saw strange things there -- among the rest, people who came to

Ime for medical aid, and who were really suffering from nothing but
slow starvation.  have not forgotten -- am not likely to forget so

16        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                 chap, t1

long as memory holds -- a visit to a sick girl in a wretched garret

where two or three other women, one a deformed woman, sister of

my patient, were busy shirt-making. After due examination, even

my small medical knowledge sufficed to show that my patient was

merely in want of some better food than the bread and bad tea on

which these people were living. I said so as gently as I could, and
the sister turned upon me with a kind of choking passion. Pulling

out of her pocket a few pence and halfpence, and holding them

out, "That is all I get for six-and-thirty hours' work, and you talk

about giving her proper food."

    IWell, I left that to pursue my medical studies, and it so happened

the shortest way between the school which attended and the

library of the College of Surgeons, where my spare hours were
largely spent, lay through certain courts and alleys, Vinegar Yard

and others, which are now nothing like what they were then.

Nobody would have found robbing me a profitable employment in

Ithose days, and I used to walk through these wretched dens with

out let or hindrance. Alleys nine or ten feet feet wide, suppose,

with tall houses full of squalid drunken men and women, and the

pavement strewed with still more squalid children. The place of

abtoierytwohenasdgteiamnkeearnaglinbadytuiolalnsa--tpeaabmtehtywoewfeansfilttahhyeroecaxlorhsaeoladft-iopwnaoscrkdse; d--annfdieltighthhybeoauonrnsd,ly   relief
                                                                                                                                                         brutal

                                                                                                                                                          occa

sionally ending in a general row. All this almost within hearing of

the traffic of the Strand, within easy reach of the wealth and plenty

of the city.

    I used to wonder sometimes why these people did not sally

forth in mass and get a few hours' eating and drinking and plunder

to their hearts' content, before the police could stop and hang a

few of them. But the poor wretches had not the heart even for

that. As a slight, wiry Liverpool detective once said to me when
I asked
           him how    it was  he"   managed    to deal with such    hulking
ruffians  as we were  among,                   you, sir, drink and  disease
                                   Lord bless

leave nothing in them."

     This early contact with the sternest facts of the social
problem impressed him profoundly. And though not
actively employed in what is generally called " philanthropy,"
still he did his part, hopefully but soberly, not only to

throw light on the true issues and to strip away make-
believe from them, but also to bring knowledge to the

working classes, and to institute machinery by which capacity
should be caught and led to a position where it might be
useful instead of dangerous to social order.

     After some time, however, he left Mr. Chandler to join

1842 LONDON APPRENTICESHIP                                                                        17

his second brother-in-law,* who had set up in the north of

London, and to whom he was duly apprenticed, as his
brother James had been before him. This change gave him
more time and opportunity to pursue his medical education.
He attended lectures at the Sydenham College, and, as has

been seen, began to prepare for the matriculation examina

tion of the University of London. At the Sydenham

College he met with no little success,                             winning, besides

certificates of merit        in other departments,                 a prize-- his first

prize -- for botany.         His vivid recollections,                given below, of

this entry into the scientific arena are taken from a journal

he kept for his fiancee during his absence from Sydney on

the cruises of the Rattlesnake.

                    On Board H.M.S. Rattlesnake, Chr1stmas 1847.

     INext summer it will be six years since made my first trial in
the world. My first public competition, small as was, it was an
epoch in my life. I had been attending
                                     a                             was my first summer

                                      I (Iif

                                                         (it
session)   the botanical  lectures at  Chelsea. One morning observed
   notice                 notice of     public competition for medals, etc.,
a          stuck up --  a                                          I
                                                                     I
to take place on the 1st AugustII I                    recollect right). It was then
the end of May or thereabouts.
                                       remember looking longingly at

the  notice, and    some one said      to me, "Why don't           you go in                      and
try  for "          laughed at the     idea, for was very          young, and                      my
     it                                                I

         ?

           II
knowledge somewhat of the vaguest. Nevertheless mentioned
the matter to S.f when returned home. He likewise advised me

to try, and so determined would.                             set to work in earnest, and
                                I      II
                                                 I
perseveringly applied myself to such works as could lay my hands

on, Lindley's and Decandolle's Systems and the Annales des Sciences

Naturelles in the British Museum.                      tried to read Schleiden, but

my German was insufficient.
     For young hand worked really hard from eight or nine in
           a

the morning until twelve at night, besides long hot summer's walka
                                                                a
over to Chelsea two or three times week to hear Lindley. A
great part of the time worked till sunrise. The result was sort                     a

of ophthalmia which kept me from reading at night for months

afterwards.

     The day of examination came, and as went along the passage
                                                             2I
                                                               I
                                                                              I

                                                                                               C
to go out well remember dear Lizzie,* half in jest, half in earnest,I
throwing her shoe after me, as she said, for luck. She was alone, be
side S., in the secret, and almost as anxious as was. How reached

              John1 Godwin Scott.3                     Mrs.    His brother-in-law.
     VOL.                          His eldest sister,        Scott.
            I

18              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                               chap, 11

the examination room I hardly know, but I recollect finding myself

at last with pen and ink and paper before me and five other beings,

all older than myself, at a long table. We stared at one another

like strange cats in a garret, but at length the examiner (Ward)
Ientered, and before each was placed the paper of questions and
sundry plants.       looked at my questions, but for some moments

Icould hardly hold my pen, so extreme was my nervousness ; but

when once fairly began, my ideas crowded upon me almost faster
Ithan  could write them. And so we all sat, nothing heard but

the scratching of the pens and the occasional crackle of the

examiner's Times as he quietly looked over the news of the day.
     The examination began at eleven. At two they brought in
lunch. It was a good meal enough, but the circumstances were

not particularly favourable to enjoyment, so after a short delay we

resumed our work. It began to be evident between whom the
contest lay, and the others determined that I was one man's
competitor and Stocks 1 (he is now in the East India service) the
other. Scratch, scratch, scratch ! Four o'clock came, the usual
hour of closing the examination, but Stocks and I had not half

done, so with the consent of the others we petitioned for an

extension.   The examiner was willing to let us go on as long as
we liked.
            INever did see man write like Stocks ; one might have

Itaken him for an attorney's clerk writing for his dinner. We went

on. had finished a little after eight, he went on till near nine,

I Iand then we had tea and dispersed.
    Great were the greetings  received when                            got home, where

my long absence had caused some anxiety. The decision would

not take place for some weeks, and many were the speculations

made as to the probabilities of success. I for my part managed

to forget all about  and went on my ordinary avocations without
                     it,

                              I
                                 I

                                                                 S. a
troubling myself more than could possibly help about it.                                aI

knew too well my own deficiencies to have been either surprised

or disappointed at failure, and made point of shattering all
involuntary "castles in the air" as soon as possible. My worst

anticipations were realised. One day                                   came to me with

sorrowful expression of countenance.     He had inquired of the

Beadle as to the decision, and ascertained on the latter's authority

that all the successful candidates were University College men,

whereby, of course, was excluded.        said, "Very well, the thing
1

                 it

                  I
                          I

                                      I
was not to be helped," put my best face upon the matter, and gave

up all thoughts of it. Lizzie, too, came to comfort me, and,
                                                                       ;
believe, felt more than did. What was my surprise on returning                   a

                                                                                    I
home one afternoon to find myself suddenly seized, and the whole

female household vehemently insisting on kissing me. It appeared

       John Ellerton Stocks, M.D., London, distinguished himself as botanist
in India. He travelled and collected in Beloochistan and Scinde died 1854.

                                                                                                                      19

an official-looking letter had arrived for me, and Lizzie, as I did

not appear, could not restrain herself from opening                                                                   was
I

                                                a

                                                                                     1

                                                                    it
                                                                                        in

                                                                                                                 it.

                                                                            I
second, and was to receive                    medal accordingly, and dine with

the guild on the 9th November to have bestowed.
         dined with the company, and bore my share both pudding

and praise, but the charm of success lay in Lizzie's warm congratu

lation and sympathy. Since then she always took upon herself to

prophesy touching the future fortunes of "the boy."

The haphazard, unsystematic nature of preliminary

medical study here presented cannot fail to strike one with                     ;

wonder. Thomas Huxley was now seventeen he had                                       a
already had two years' " practice in pharmacy " as testi
monial put it. After similar apprenticeship, his brotherif
had made the acquaintance of the director of the Gloucester
Lunatic Asylum, and was given by him the post of dispensera
or " apothecary," which he filled so satisfactorily as to receive
a promise that he went to London for couple of years
                                                       a
to complete his medical training,                                   a
                                                               substitute should be

appointed meanwhile to keep the place until he returned.

      The opportunity to which both the brothers looked
came in the shape of the Free Scholarships offered by the

Charing Cross Hospital to students whose parents were

unable to pay for their education. Testimonials as to the

position and general education of the candidates were

required, and                         curious that one of the persons applied
                             it
                                  is

                                                   J.
to by the elder Huxley was H. Newman, at that time

Vicar of Littlemore, who had been educated at Dr. Nicholas'

School at Ealing.

      The application for admission to the lectures and other
teaching at the Hospital states of the young T. H. Huxley
that " He has fair knowledge of Latin, reads French with

facility, and knows something of German. He has also
1
              :

                     is
                        a

                                           a
                                                                             a
made considerable progress in the Mathematics, having, as

far as he has advanced, thorough not superficial know-

          Silver Medal        of the  Pharmaceutical Society,  9tRhicNhaorvdem--bewr ith18t4h2e.   Another
                             a book                                                               following
ibnostcarniipcatilonpr--ize           -- La Botanique, by A.

                                      Thomae Huxley

                                      In Exercitatione Botanices

                             Apud Scholam Collegii Sydenhamiensis

                                      Optime Merenti

                                             Hunc librum dono dedit
                             Ricardus D. Hoblyn, Botanices Professor.

20    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                 chap, 11

ledge of the subject."             The document ends in the following
confident words : --

     I appeal to the certificates and testimonials that will be here

with submitted for evidence of their past conduct, offering prospec

tively that these young men, if elected to the Free Scholarships of

the Charing Cross Hospital and Medical College, will be diligent
students, and in all things submit themselves to the controul and

guidance of the Director and Medical Officers of the establishment.

A father may be pardoned, perhaps, for adding his belief that these

young men will hereafter reflect credit on any institution from which
they may receive their education.

     The authorities replied that " although it is not usual to
receive two members of the same family at the same time,
the officers taking into consideration the age of Mr. Huxley,
sen., the numerous and satisfactory testimonials of his
respectability, and of the good conduct and merits of the

candidates, have decided upon admitting Mr. J. E. and Mr.
T. Huxley on this occasion."

      The brothers began their hospital course on October I,

1842. Here, after a time, my father seems to have begun
working more steadily and systematically than he had done

before, under the influence of a really good teacher.

that  LoI okdiongnobt actkhin(khe  says)   on  my " Lehrjahre," I am sorry to say
                                   that   any
                                               account of my doings as a student
would tend to edification. In fact, I should distinctly warn in
genuous youth to avoid imitating my example. I worked extremely

hard when it pleased me, and when it did not, which was a very

Ifrequent case, was extremely idle (unless making caricatures of

one's pastors and masters is to be called a branch of industry), or

else wasted my energies in wrong directions. I read everything I

could lay hands upon, including novels, and took up all sorts of

pursuits to drop them again quite as speedily. No doubt it was

very largely my own fault, but the only instruction from which I
obtained the proper effect of education was that which I received

from Mr. Wharton Jones, who was the lecturer on physiology at
the Charing Cross School of Medicine. The extent and precision

of his knowledge impressed me greatly, and the severe exactness

of his method of lecturing was quite to my taste. I do not know
Ithat have ever felt so much respect for anybody as a teacher
before or since. I worked hard to obtain his approbation, and he
Iwas extremely kind and helpful to the youngster who, am afraid,
took up more of his time than he had any right to do. It was he

1843 AT CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL                                                                             21

who     osnuegg--esitnedthethMe edpiucballicGaatizoentte  of   my first scientific paper -- a very
little                                                     of
                                                               1845, and most kindly corrected

the literary faults which abounded in short as was for at that
                                                               I it,

                                                                                it

                                                                                                        ;
time, and for many years afterwards,                               detested the trouble of

writing, and would take no pains with it.

        He never forgot his debt to Wharton Jones, and years

afterwards was delighted at being able to do him good
                         a

                                                                I

                                                                               a

                                                                             it
turn, by helping to obtain pension for him. But although

in retrospect he condemns the fitfulness of his energies and
his want of system, which left much to be learned afterwards,

which might with advantage have been learned then, still

was his energy that struck his contemporaries.                                                             have a

story from one of them that when the other students used

to go out into the court of the hospital after lectures were

over, they would invariably catch sight of young Huxley's

dark head at a certain window bent over a microscope while

they amused themselves outside. The constant silhouette

framed in the outlines of the window tickled the fancy of

the young fellows, and a wag amongst them dubbed with
   name that stuck, " The Sign of the Head and Microscope."
a                                                                  It
            a
                                                                        is
                                                                                 it
        The scientific paper, too, which he mentions, was some

what remarkable under the circumstances.                                                                   not given

to every medical student to make an anatomical discovery,

even           small one. In this case the boy of nineteen, in

vestigating things for himself, found a hitherto undiscovered

membrane in the root of the human hair, which received the

name of Huxley's layer.

      Speculations, too, such as had filled his mind in early
boyhood, still haunted his thoughts. In one of his letters

from the Rattlesnake, he gives an account of how he was

possessed in his student days by that problem which has

beset so many strong imagination, the problem of per
                 a
petual motion, and even sought an interview with Faraday,a

whom he left with the resolution to meet the great man

some day on more equal footing.

                                                                   March 1848.

To-day, ruminating over the manifold ins and outs of life in

           and   mwyriotewndoinwnpamrtiycuilnatre, rviecwamweithintFoarmaydahye--ad                          suddenly
general,  would                                                it                                          how many
that
I                                                               I
                 Aye, there's the rub, for have completely forgotten.
              ?
years ago

22            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                          chap, ir

However, it must have been in either my first or second winter

session at Charing Cross, and it was before Christmas I feel

sure.I remember how my long brooding perpetual motion scheme

I(which     had made more than one attempt to realise, but failed

owing to insufficient mechanical dexterity) had been working upon

me, depriving me of rest even, and heating my brain with chateaux
Id'Espagne of endless variety.
                                    remember, too, it was Sunday
Imorning when determined to put the questions, which neither

my wits nor my hands would set at rest, into some hands for

decision, and I determined to go before some tribunal from whence

Iappeal should be absurd.       knew no one among the high priests

      But to whom to go ?

of science, and going about with a scheme for perpetual motion

was, I knew, for most people the same thing as courting ridicule
among high and low. After all I fixed upon Faraday, possibly
perhaps because I knew where he was to be found, but in part

also because the cool logic of his works made me hope that my

poor scheme would be treated on some other principle than that

of mere previous opinion one way or other. Besides, the known

Icourtesy and affability of the man encouraged me. So wrote

a letter, drew a plan, enclosed the two in an envelope, and

tremblingly betook myself on the following afternoon to the Royal

Institution.
     " Is Dr. Faraday here ? " said I to the porter. " No sir, he
Ihas just gone out."  felt relieved. "Be good enough to give
him this letter," and I was hurrying out when a little man in a
brown coat came in at the glass door. " Here is Dr. Faraday,"
said the man, and gave him my letter. He turned to me and
courteously inquired what I wished. "To submit to you that

letter, sir, if you are not occupied." " My time is always occupied,

sir, but step this way," and he led me into the museum or library,

I Ifor forget which it was, only know there was a glass case
Iagainst which we leant. He read my letter, did not think my

plan would answer. Was acquainted with mechanism, what we
Icall the laws of motion ?
                                saw all was up with my poor scheme,
so after trying a little to explain, in the course of which I certainly
failed in giving him a clear idea of what I would be at, I thanked
him for his attention, and went off as dissatisfied as ever. The
                                conversation I well recollect.
s"etnhsaet  of one part of the                                  He said
            were the perpetual  motion possible, it would have  occurred

spontaneously in nature, and would have overpowered all other
Iforces," or words to that effect.
                                    did not see the force of this,

but did not feel competent enough to discuss the question.
      However, all this exorcised my devil, and he has rarely come

to trouble me since. Some future day, perhaps, I may be able to

1845-46                    ENTERS THE NA VY                                            23

call Faraday's       attention more        d"ec(iDdaesdlyG. estPirenrgein  modo ! " wie das
Gestirn, ohne        Hast, ohne Rast                                        a midshipman's

berth   !).
                  1
   In other respects also his student's career was a brilliant

one.     Intha8t 43hishe"  won the first   chemical prize,                 the certificate
stating                    extraordinary    diligence and                  success in the

pursuit of this branch of science do him infinite honour."

At the same time, he also won the first prize in the class of

anatomy and physiology.                    On the   back of    Wharton Jones'
                                           pencil    " Well,    'tis no matter.
certificate          scribbled in
              I                                   ?:
                  is
                                                           if
                                    a?
Honour pricks me on. Yea, but how                              honour prick me
                                        How then "
off when come on

      Finally, in 1845 he went up for his M.B. at London
University, and won gold medal for anatomy and physiology,

being second in honours in that section.
     Whatever then he might think of his own work, judged

by his own standards, he had done well enough as medical

students go. But a brilliant career as a student did not

suffice to start him in life or provide him with livelihood.
                                                                           I AI
How he came to enter the Navy                      I is  best told in his own    a

words.

   It was in the early spring of 1846, that, having finished my
obligatory medical studies and passed the first M.B. examination at

the London University, though was still too young to qualify at
                                           II I
the College of Surgeons,                I        Iwas talking to fellow-student (thea

present eminent physician, Sir Joseph Fayrer), and wondering what

I  should do to meet the imperative necessity for earning my own

bread, when my friend suggested that should write to Sir William

Burnett, at that time Director-General for the Medical Service of

the Navy, for an appointment.                     thought this rather strong
                                                                                    a

thing to do, as Sir William was personally unknown to me, but my

cheery friend would not listen to my scruples, so went to my

lodgings and wrote the best letter could devise.                           few days after

wards received the usual official circular of acknowledgment, but at
   I

            a
the bottom there was written an instruction to call at Somerset House

on such        day.  I     thought that looked like business, so at the
                        I
appointed time called and sent in my card while waited in Sir

William's anteroom. He was tall, shrewd-looking old gentleman,
                                           a

                                               I
with a broad Scotch accent, and think see him now as he
                                                       I

entered with my card in his hand. The first thing he did was to

return   it,  with the frugal reminder that should probably find                       I it

useful on some other occasion. The second was to ask whether

24                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     chap, ii

Iwas an Irishman.             suppose the air of modesty about my appeal
must have struck him. I satisfied the Director-General that I was

English to the backbone, and he made some inquiries as to my

student career, finally desiring me to hold myself ready for examina

tion. Having passed this, I was in Her Majesty's Service, and

entered on the books of Nelson's old ship the Victory, for duty

at Haslar Hospital, about a couple of months after my application.

    My official chief at Haslar was a very remarkable person, the

late Sir John Richardson, an excellent naturalist and far-famed as an
indomitable Arctic traveller. He was a silent, reserved man, out

Iside the circle of his       family and intimates ; and  having     a full  "shOarlde
                                was extremely disgusted   to find    that
of youthful vanity,

IJohn," as we irreverent youngsters called him, took not the slightest

notice of my worshipful self, either the first time attended him, as
Iit was my duty to do, or for some weeks afterwards.
                                                                     am afraid

to think of the lengths to which my tongue may have run on the

subject of the churlishness of the chief, who was, in truth, one of

the kindest-hearted and most considerate of men. But one day, as

I was crossing the hospital square, Sir John stopped me and heaped

coals of fire on my head by telling me that he had tried to get me

one of the resident appointments, much coveted by the assistant-
                                                  put in another man. " How -
                                                  here till can get you some
Isurgeons, but          that                 had
                                             you
ever," said he,          "I
                              the Admiralty
                              mean to keep

tthheingthyaonukswiIll   like," and  turned upon   his heel without  waiting for
                        stammered    out. That    explained how it
                                                                     was I had

Inot been packed off to the West Coast of Africa like some of my
juniors, and why, eventually,                remained altogether seven months

at Haslar.                           during which " Old John " ignored my
      After a long interval,

existence almost as completely as before, he stopped me again as we

met in a casual way, and describing the service on which the

Rattlesnake was likely to be employed, said that Captain Owen

Stanley, who was to command the ship, had asked him to re

Icommend an assistant surgeon                who knew   something    "ofVesrcyienwceell,;
would I like that ? Of course                jumped at  the offer.
I give you leave ; go to London at once and see Captain Stanley."
I went, saw my future commander, who was very civil to me, and
promised to ask that I should be appointed to his ship, as in due
time I was. It is a singular thing that during the few months of
Imy stay at Haslar had among my messmates two future Directors-

General of the Medical Service of the Navy (Sir Alexander Arm
strong and Sir John Watt-Reid), with the present President of the
College of Physicians, and my kindest of doctors, Sir Andrew

Clark.

    A letter to his eldest sister, Lizzie, dated from Haslar

1846 APPOINTMENT TO THE 'RATTLESNAKE'                                                                                   25

May 24, 1846, shows how he regarded the prospect now
opening before him.

... Igo on                                                                       letter, I think   I
    As            see   no special                queries in your                                     --shmayll
                you    what that                 same way of life                 is likely to    be
to tell

fortune  having already been                     told  fIorwamselik(efolyr       the next   five years at
                                                 that                            to have a  permanency
least).  I told you in my last
here.    Well, I was recommended by Sir John Richardson, and

should have certainly had had not (luckily) the Admiralty put in
                                           it,
                                                    a
a man of their own. Having good impudent faith in my own

star (Wie das Gestirn, ohne Hast, ohne Rast), knew this was only
because was to have something better, and so turned out for
         I                                                                       aI

                                                                                    it

                                                                                           a J.
                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                      a
day or two after was ousted from the museum, Sir Richardson
                I
(who has shown himself for some reason or another special good
                        is                                                       letter from Captain
friend to me) told me that he had received
Owen Stanley, who                          to command an exploring expedition to New

Guinea (not coast of Africa, mind), requesting him to recommend an
assistant surgeon for this expedition --would like the appointment
                                                                          I

                                                                                                                    is ?
As you may imagine was delighted at the offer, and immediately
              I
                      I

                          I
                                I
accepted it.    was recommended accordingly to Captain Stanley

and Sir W. Burnett, and shall be appointed as soon as the ship

in commission. We are to have the Rattlesnake, a 28-gun frigate,

and as she will fit out here                           shall have no trouble. We sail

probably in September.

New Guinea, as you may be aware,                                          is     place almost unknown,
                                                                              a

and our object to bring back full account of its Geography,

Geology, and Natural History. In the latter department with
it

     I
                              is
                                                                       a
which shall have (in addition to my medical functions) somewhat
to do, we shall form one grand collection of specimens and deposit

in the British Museum or some other public place, and this

main object being always kept in view, we are at liberty to collect

and work for ourselves as we please. Depend upon unless some
                                                                                    I it
                                                                                           Ia
sudden attack of laziness supervenes, such an opportunity shall not

slip unused out of my hands. The great difficulty in such wide
field to choose an object. In this point, however, hope to be
I
            is
             I
                                       is
greatly assisted by the scientific folks, to many of whom have

already had introductions (Owen, Gray, Grant, Forbes), and this,                                                        aa I

assure you, look upon as by no means the least of the advantages

shall derive from being connected with the expedition.                                                have
                                                                                    is
been twice to town to see Captain Stanley. He                                           a
                                                                                            a

                                                                                             I
                                                                                            son of the

Bishop of Norwich, an exceedingly gentlemanly man, thorough

scientific enthusiast, and shows himself altogether very much dis

posed to forward my views in every possible way. Being

scientific man  himself he                 will  take care                wtoithhavsecietnhteifischipp'usrsaurirtasn--ge
ments as far    as possible                  in  harmony

circumstance you would appreciate as highly as do you were as
                                                                                 I  if

26    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                      CHAP. II

well acquainted as I now am with the ordinary opportunities of an
Iassistant surgeon. Furthermore, am given to understand that if

one does anything at all, promotion is almost certain. So that

altogether I am in a very fair way, and would snap my fingers at
the Grand Turk. Wharton Jones was delighted when I told him

about my appointment. Dim visions of strangely formed corpuscles
seemed to cross his imagination like the ghosts of the kings in

Macbeth.
                                                                     What seems his head

                              The likeness of a nucleated cell has on.

      The law's delays are proverbial, but on this occasion, as

on the return of the Rattlesnake, the Admiralty seem to

have been almost as provoking to the eager young surgeon

as any lawyer could have been. The appointment was

promised in May ; it was not made till October.                                     On

the 6th of that month there is another letter to his sister,

giving fuller particulars of his prospects on the voyage : --

      My dearest Lizzie -- At last I have really got my appointment
and joined my ship. I was so completely disgusted with the many
delays that had occurred that I made up my mind not to write to
anybody again until I had
                              my  dcwoemllminigs-spiolanceinwimll ybehtahned."     Hence
forward, like another Jonah,  my                                                inwards "
of the Rattlesnake, and upon the whole I really doubt whether

Jonah was much worse accommodated, so far as room goes, than
myself. My total length, as you are aware, is considerable, 5 feet
1 1 inches, possibly, but the height of the lower deck of the Rattle

Isnake, which will  be my especial location, is at the outside                  I4  feet 10
                     am to do with the superfluous foot                             cannot
inches. What

divine. Happily, however, there is a sort of skylight into the

berth, so that I shall be able to sit with the body in it and my head

out.

    IApart from joking, however, this is not such a great matter, and

it is the only thing would see altered in the whole affair. The

Iofficers, as far as have seen them, are a very gentlemanly, excellent

set of men, and considering we are to be together for four or five
                                                  I am not given to
Iyears, that is a matter of no small importance.
be sanguine, but I confess expect a good deal to arise out of this
appointment. In the first place, surveying ships are totally

different from the ordinary run of men-of-war. The requisite

discipline is kept up, but not in the martinet style. Less form is

observed. From the men who are appointed having more or less

scientific turns, they have more respect for one another than that

given by mere position in the service, and hence that position is

less taken advantage of. They are brought more into contact, and

1846 PROSPECTS OF THE VOYAGE                                                27

hence those engaged in the surveying service almost proverbially

stick by one another. To me, whose interest in the service is

almost all to be made, this is a matter of no small importance.
     Then again, in a surveying ship you can work. In an ordinary
frigate if a fellow has the talents of all the scientific men from

Archimedes downwards compressed into his own peculiar skull they
are all lost. Even if it were possible to
berth, you have not room in your " chat           s"tufdoyr   in a  midshipmen's
                                                             more   than a dozen

books. But in the Rattlesnake the whole poop is to be converted

into a large chart-room with bookshelves and tables and plenty of
light. There I may read, draw, or microscopise at pleasure, and
as to books, I have a carte blanche from the Captain to take as
I I--maannyd
       as please,    of which permission we       shall avail ourself--rather
        besides all  this, from the peculiar
                                                  way in which obtained
this appointment, I shall have a much wider swing than assistant
surgeons in general get. I can see clearly that certain branches of
the natural history work will fall into my hands if I manage properly

through Sir John Richardson, who has shown himself a very kind

friend all throughout, and also through Captain Stanley I have
been introduced to several eminent zoologists -- to Owen and Gray

and Forbes of King's College. From all these men much is to be

learnt which becomes peculiarly my own, and can of course only be

used and applied by me. From Forbes especially I have learned

and shall learn much with respect to dredging operations (which
bear on many of the most interesting points of zoology). In con

sequence of this I may very likely be entrusted with the carrying of

Ithem out, and all that is so much the more towards my opportunities.

Again, have learnt the calotype process for the express purpose of

managing the calotype apparatus, for which Captain Stanley has

applied to the Government.

     And having once for all enumerated all these meaner prospects

of mere personal advancement, I must confess I do glory in the

prospect of being able to give myself up to my own favourite pur

suits  without thereby neglecting the proper      duties of         life.  And
then   perhaps by the following of my favourite
                                                  motto --

                                Wie das Gestirn,

                        Ohne    RHaasstt,--
                        Ohne

something may be done, and some of Sister Lizzie's fond imagina

tions turn out not altogether untrue.

    I Iperceive that have nearly finished a dreadfully egotistical
letter, but I know you like to hear of my doings, so shall not apolo
        Kind regards
gise.  long letter all  to the  Doctor and kisses to the     babbies.      Write
me a                    about                                brother,
                                yourselves. -- Your affect,

                                                             T. H. Huxley.

j8           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             chap, ii

      One more description to complete the sketch of his
quarters on board the Rattlesnake. It is from a letter to

his mother, written at Plymouth, where the Rattlesnake put
in after leaving Portsmouth. The comparison with the
ordinary quarters of an assistant-surgeon, and the shifts to

which a studious man might be put in his endeavour to find
a quiet spot to work in, have a flavour of Mr. Midshipman

Easy about them to relieve the deplorable reality of his

situation :--

    You will be very glad to know that I am exceedingly comfort

able  mheyreb. ookMsy--cwahbiicnh  has   now got into   tolerable order,  and what
with                               are,                to say, not a few
                                         I am happy                       -- my gay

curtain and the spicy oilcloth which will be down on the floor, looks

most respectable. Furthermore, although it is an unquestionably
Idull day I have sufficient light to write here, without the least trouble,
to read, or even if necessary, to use my microscope.                      went to

Isee a friend of mine on board the Recruit the other day, and truly
I hugged myself when                     compared my position with his. The

berth where   he and    seven            others eat  --thaendir,  daily bread is  hardly
bigger than  my cabin,   except           in height               of course, he   has to

sleep in a hammock. My friend is rather an eccentric character,

              in        the ship, was discovered
             the         only place, as he said,
Iianndt,hebeminaginmtoipss--ed                                    the other day reading
                                                                  sufficiently retired for
study. And this is really no exaggeration. If had no cabin I

should take to drinking in a month.

     It was during this period of waiting that he attended his
first meeting of the British Association, which was held in

1 846 at Southampton. Here he obtained from Professor
Edward Forbes one of his living specimens of Amphio.xus
lanceolatus, and made an examination of its blood. The
result was a short paper read at the following meeting of
the Association,* which showed that in the composition of

its blood this lowly vertebrate approached very near the

invertebrates.

     1 "Examination of the Corpuscles of the Blood of Amphioxus lanceolatus,"
Biitish Association Report, 1847, ii. p. 95, and Set. Memoirs, i.

                          CHAPTER III

                                i 846-1 849

It is a curious coincidence that, like two other leaders of

science, Charles Darwin and Joseph Dalton Hooker, their

close friend Huxley began his scientific career on board one

of Her Majesty's ships. He was, however, to learn how little

the British Government of that day, for all its professions,

really cared for the advancement of knowledge.* But of

the immense value to himself of these years of hard

training, the discipline, the knowledge of men and of the

capabilities of life, even without more than                    the barest
                                -- of
necessities of existence         :--   this  he  often  spoke.  As he puts
it in his Autobiography

Life on board Her Majesty's ships in those days was a very

different affair from what it is now, and ours was exceptionally

rough, as we were often many months without receiving letters or
seeing any civilised people but ourselves. In exchange, we had

the interest of being about the last voyagers, I suppose, to whom it

could be    possible  to  meet with people         who    knew  --noatnhdinogf  of fire
             we did   on  the south coast of     New    Guinea                  making
arms -- as

acquaintance with a variety of interesting savage and semi-civilised

people. But, apart from experience of this kind and the oppor-

1 The key to this attitude on the part of the Admiralty is to be found in the
scathing description in Briggs' Naval Administration from 1827 to 1892, p. 92,
of the ruinous parsimony of either political party at this time with regard to the
navy -- a policy the results of which were only too apparent at the outbreak of the
Crimean War.     I quote a couple of sentences, "The navy estimates were
upon the lowest                                                                 "fraEmveend
                 scale, and reduction pushed to the very verge of danger."

from a financial point of view the course pursued was the reverse of economical,
and ultimately led to wasteful and increased expenditure." Thus the liberal

professions of the Admiralty were not fulfilled ; its goodwill gave the young
surgeon three and a half years of leave from active service ; with an obdurate

treasury, it could do no more.

3o           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       chap, h1

tunities offered for scientific work, to me, personally, the cruise was

extremely valuable. It was good for me to live under sharp dis

cipline ; to be down on the realities of existence by living on

bare necessaries : to find how extremely well worth living life seemed

to be when one woke up from a night's rest on a soft plank, with

the sky for canopy, and cocoa and weevilly biscuit the sole prospect

for breakfast ; and, more especially, to learn to work for the sake
of what I got for myself out of even
                                                         all went to the bottom
    I

                              it.
                                                       it,

                                                         if
                                                                   it
                                                                                      aI
and along with  My brother officers were as good fellows as

sailors ought to be and generally are, but, naturally, they neither

knew nor cared anything about my pursuits, nor understood why

should be so zealous in pursuit of the objects which my friends, the

middies, christened "Buffons," after the title conspicuous on

volume of the Suites d Buffon, which stood on my shelf in the

chart-room.

    On the whole, life among the company of officers was

satisfactory enough.* Huxley's immediate superior, John
Thompson, was a man of sterling worth and Captain Stanley
was an excellent commander, and sympathetic withal. Among
                                                         ;

                                                                         a
Huxley's messmates there was only one, the ship's clerk, who

ever made himself actively disagreeable, and quarrel with

him only served to bring into relief the young surgeon's
integrity and directness of action. After some dispute, in

which he had been worsted, this gentleman sought to avenge

himself by dropping mysterious hints as to Huxley's conduct
before joining the ship. He had been treasurer of his mess
there had been trouble about the accounts, and a scandal
had barely been averted. This was not long in coming to
                                                         a
Huxley's ears. Furiously indignant as he was, he did not                   a

lose his self-control but promptly inviting the members of                                               a;
the wardroom to meet as court of honour, laid his case
                ;

                                a

before them, and challenged his accuser to bring forward any
tittle of evidence in support of his insinuations. The latter

had nothing to say for himself, and made formal retraction

and apology. A signed account of the proceedings was kept

by the first officer, and duplicate by Huxley, as                           defence
against any possible revival of the slander.
    1
                            a
                                                      ;

                                              a
       The Assistant-Surgeon messed in the gun-room with the middies. A man
in the midst of lot of boys, with hardly any grown-up companions, often has
rather unenviable position but, says Captain Heath, who was one of these

middies, Huxley's constant good spirits and fun, when he was not absorbed in
his work, his freedom from any assumption of superiority over them, made the

boys his good comrades and allies.

1846-47                 LEA VES ENGLAND                                   3i

On December 3, 1846, the Rattlesnake frigate left Spit-

head, but touched again at Plymouth to ship £65,000 of

specie for the Cape. This delay was no pleasure to the

young Huxley ; it only served to renew the pain of parting

from home, so that, after writing a last letter to reassure

his mother as to the comfort of his present quarters, he was

glad to lose sight of the English coast on the 1 1th.

Madeira was reached on the 18th. On the 26th they

sailed for Rio de Janeiro, where they stayed from January 23
to February 2, 1847. Here Huxley had his first experience

of tropical dredging in Botafago Bay, with Macgillivray,

naturalist to the expedition. It was a memorable occasion,

the more so, because in the absence of a sieve they were

compelled to use their hands as strainers the first day.

Happily the want was afterwards supplied by a meat cover.

From    the  following    letter it  seems         that  several  prizes  of
value  were  taken in   the dredge
                                     :--

                                           R1o Jane1ro, Jan. 24, 1847.

My dear Mother -- Four weeks of lovely weather and un
interrupted fair winds brought us to this southern fairyland. In

my last letter I told you a considerable yarn about Madeira, I guess,
and so for fear lest you should imagine me scenery mad I will spare
you any description of Rio Harbour. Suffice it to say that it

contends with the Bay of Naples for the title of the most beautiful
place in the world. It must beat Naples in luxuriance and variety

of vegetation, but from all accounts, to say nothing of George's 1

picture, falls behind it in the colours of sky and sea, that of the

latter being in the harbour and for some distance outside of a dirty

olive green like the washings of a painter's palette.

We have come in for the purpose of effecting some trifling

repairs, which, though not essential to the safety of the ship, will

nevertheless naturally enhance the comfort of its inmates. This
Iyou will understand when tell you that in consequence of these
Isame defects
                  have had water an inch or two deep in my cabin,

wish-washing about ever since we left Madeira.

      We crossed  the line   on the  13th  of this month, and as one of
the uninitiated             through   the  usual tomfoolery practised on
                  I went
that occasion. The affair has been too often described for me to

say anything about it. I had the good luck to be ducked and

shaved early, and of course took particular care to do my best in

                            1 His eldest brother.

32

serving out the unhappy beggars who had to follow. I enjoyed the

fun well enough at the time, but unquestionably it is on all grounds

Ia most pernicious custom. It swelled our sick list to double the

usual amount, and one poor fellow, am sorry to say, died of the

effects of pleurisy then contracted.

      We have been quite long enough at sea now to enable me to

Ijudge how shall get on in the ship, and to form a very clear idea
Iof how it fits me and how I fit it. In the first place am exceed

ingly well and exceedingly contented with my lot. My opinion of

I Ithe advantages lying open to me increases rather than otherwise as
    see my way about me.  am on capital terms with all the superior
officers, and I find them ready to give me all facilities. I have a
Iplace for my books and microscope in the chart room, and there I

sit and read in the morning much as though were in my rooms in

Agar Street. My immediate superior, Johnny Thompson, is a long
-headed good fellow without a morsel of humbug about him -- a man

whom I thoroughly respect, both morally and intellectually. I think
it will be my fault if we are not fast friends through the commission.

One friend on board a ship is as much as anybody has a right to

expect.
     It is just the interval between the sea and the land breezes,
Ithe sea like glass, and not a breath stirring. I shall become soup
if   do not   go on    deck.    Temp, in sun at noon 86 in   shade,
     in sun.                    been up to 89 in shade, 139  in sun
139            N.B.  -- It has

Isince this.      see concluded with a statement of    temp. Since
    March 28. -- I                                       however, in
                   considerably better -- 140 in sun;
then it has been

the shade it rarely rises above 86 or so, and when the sea or land

breezes are blowing this is rather pleasant than otherwise.

    I have been ashore two or three times. The town is like most

Portuguese towns, hot and stinking, the odours here being improved
by a strong flavour of nigger from the slaves, of whom there is an
immense number. They seem to do all the work, and their black

skins shine in the sun as though they had been touched up with

Warren, 30 Strand. They are mostly in capital condition, and on
the whole look happier than the corresponding class in England,

the manufacturing and agricultural poor, I mean. I have a much

greater respect for them than for their beastly Portuguese masters,

than whom there is not a more vile, ignorant, and besotted nation

under the sun. I only regret that such a glorious country as this
should be in such hands. Had Brazil been colonised by English

men, it would by this time have rivalled our Indian Empire.

    The naturalist Macgillivray and I have had several excursions

under pretence of catching butterflies, etc. On the whole, how
Iever,
         think we have been most successful in imbibing sherry

cobbler, which you get here in great perfection. By the way, tell

1847 FIRST WORK IN THE 'RATTLESNAKE'                                                                                    33

Cooke,* with my kindest regards, that                                       is a lying old thief,

many of the things he told me about Macgillivray, e.g., being an

Iignoramus in natural history, etc. etc., having proved to be lies.

He is at anyrate a very good ornithologist, and, can testify, is

exceedingly zealous in his vocation as a collector. As in these
I(points) Mr.
                              's statements are unquestionably false,                        must
Iconfess
    IMarch

finish up.
      feel    g--reWately     inclined to    disbelieve his other assertions.                  will
                              sail hence     on Sunday for the Cape, so
       2I9f.
              you have not already written to me at that place,
direct your letters to H.M.S. Rattlesnake, Sydney (to wait arrival).
We shall probably be at the Cape some weeks surveying, thence

shall betake ourselves to the Mauritius, and leave a card on Paul

and Virginia, thence on to Sydney ; but it is of no use to direct to

any PpSlac.e--bTuhtethRe altatslet.snakes are not idle. We shall most likely
Ihave something to say to the English savans before long. If have
Iany friz in the fire will let you know.

He gives a fuller account of this piece of work in a

letter to his sister, dated Sydney, August 1, 1847. The

two papers in question, as appears from the briefest notice

in the Proceedings of the Linnean            Society, ascribing                          them                           to
William Huxley, were read in
                                              849 --
      (!)

                I
                          I

                                                                        1
                                                                                      :

                                                     I
In my last letter think mentioned to you that had worked

out and sent home to the President of the Linnaan Soc., through
Capt. Stanley, an account of Physalia, or Portuguese man-of-war as

called, an animal whose structure and affinities had never been
I it
properly worked out. The careful investigation made gave riseis
            is,                              I
                          it                       I

                                                                     is

                                                               is, I

                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                            a
to several new ideas covering the whole class of animals to which

this creature belongs, and these ideas have had the good fortune

to have had many opportunities of working out in the course of our

subsequent wanderings, so that am provided with materials for

second paper far more considerable in extent,                                 and embracing                             --an
                                                                            now partly in esse
athltaotgethewrritwteidneroufite--ld.andThpiasrtslyecionndposspeap--erthat
                                                                            "    in my head    but
   shall send before leaving. Its title will be                                Observations  upon

the Anatomy of the Diphydae, and upon the Unity of Organisation
of the Diphydae and Physophoridae," and will have lots of figures
                                             a
                                                                  it

                                                                          I
to illustrate it. Now when we return from the north hope to

Ifhave collected materials for much bigger paper than either of
these, and to which they will serve as steps.                               my present anticipa

tions turn out correct, this paper will achieve one of the great

ends of Zoology and Anatomy, viz. the reduction of two or three

    I                                        His brother-in-law.
                                          1
VOL.                                                                                     I)

34                         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                           chap, h1

apparently widely separated and incongruous groups into modifica
tions of the single type, every step of the reasoning being based
upon anatomical facts. There ! Think yourself lucky you have
only got that to read instead of the slight abstract of all three papers

with which I had some intention of favouring you.*
    IBut five years ago you threw a slipper after me for luck on my

first examination, and must have you to do it for everything else.

    At the Cape a stay of a month was made, from March 6

to April 10, and certain surveying work was done, after

which the Rattlesnake sailed for Mauritius. In spite of the

fact that the novelty of tropical scenery had worn off, the

--place made a deep impression.                   He writes to his mother,

May 15, 1847 :

      After a long and somewhat rough passage from the Cape, we
made the highland of the Isle of France on the afternoon of the

3rd of this month, and passing round the northern extremity of the

Iisland, were towed into Port Louis by the handsomest of tugs about

noon on the 4th. In my former letter have spoken to you of the
beauty of the places we have visited, of the picturesque ruggedness

of Madeira, the fine luxuriance of Rio, and the rude and simple

grandeur of South Africa. Much of my admiration has doubtless

arisen from the novelty of these tropical or semi-tropical scenes, and
Iwould be less vividly revived by a second visit.
                                                                            have become in

a manner blase with fine sights and something of a critic. All this
is to lead you to believe that I have really some grounds for the
Iraptures am going                                                          In truth it is
                           into  pirfesIenhtlayd  about Mauritius.
a complete paradise,        and                   nothing better to         do, I should

pick up some pretty French Eve (and there are plenty) and turn

Adam. N.B. There are no serpents in the island.

    This island you know, the scene of St. Pierre's beautiful story
    a
of Paul and Virginia, over which                  suppose most people have
      I                          aa
               is,
sentimentalised at one time or another of their lives. Until wei. a I

reached here did           not know that the tale was like the lady's
                           founded on fact, and that Paul and Virginia
improver -- fiction

were at one time flesh and blood, and that their veritable dust was

buried at Pamplemousses in spot considered as one of the lions

of the place, and visited as classic ground. Now, though never
                                                                                               aI
was greatly given to the tender and sentimental, and have not had                                     I

any tendencies             mthiadtshwipamy angr'seatblyerthin,c--reanseodt   by the elegancies         and
courtesies of                                                               to say that, as far        as
    1
                       p.

                       a
recollect, Mdlle. Virginia was bit of prude, and M. Paul pump,

        These papers are to be found in vol.      of the Scientific Memoirs of T.
H. Huxley, 9.

1847 MA URIT1 US AND S YDNE Y                                                                    35

--yet were it but for old acquaintance sake, I determined on making

a pilgrimage. Pamplemousses is a small village about seven miles

from Port Louis, and the road to it is lined by rows of tamarind

trees, of cocoanut trees, and sugar-canes. I started early in the

morning in order to avoid the great heat of the middle of the day,

and having breakfasted at Port Louis, made an early couple of

hours' walk of             a        meeting on my way numbers of the coloured
                               it,
population hastening to market in all the varieties of their curious
H" iTnodmoboeacuoxstu"maes.
                                    After some trouble     found my way   to the
                                  they call them. They  are situated in   garden
                                             it                           a
at the back of house now in the possession of one Mr. Geary, an                           a
                                               I
English mechanist, who puts up half the steam engines for thea is I
sugar mills in the island. The garden
                                                                  anow an utter wilderness,
                                                                       a
but still very beautiful round               runs grassy path, and in the
                                       aI ;
middle of the path on each side towards the further extremity of

the garden  is                      funeral urn supported on              pedestal, and as
                  a

dilapidated as the rest of the affair. These dilapidations, as usual,

are the work of English visitors, relic-hunters, who are as shameless

here as elsewhere.                  I  was exceedingly pleased on the whole with

my excursion, and when returned made drawing of the place,

which will send some day or other.
I

Since this have made, in company with our purser and
            I

passenger, Mr. King, regular pedestrian trip to see some very

beautiful falls up the country.

Leaving Mauritius on May 17, they prolonged their

voyage to Sydney by being requisitioned to take more

specie to Hobart Town, so that Sydney was not reached

until July 16, eight months since they had had news of

home.

      The three months spent in this first visit to Sydney
proved to be one of the most vital periods in the young

surgeon's career. From boyhood up, vaguely conscious of

unrest, of great powers within him working to find expression,

he had yet been to a certain extent driven in upon himself.
He had been somewhat isolated from those of his own age

by his eagerness for problems about which they cared
nothing and the tendency to solitude, the habit of outward
       ;

                                                                             a
                                                                                             is
reserve imposed upon an unusually warm nature, were

intensified by the fact that he grew up in surroundings not

wholly congenial.                      One member alone of his family felt

with him that complete and vivid sympathy which                                                  so

necessary to the full development of such nature. When

he was fourteen this sister married and left home, but the

36  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                 CHAP. Ill

bond between them was not broken. In some ways it was

strengthened by the lad's love for her children ; by his grief,
scarcely less than her own, at the death of her eldest little

girl. Moreover they were brought into close companionship

for a considerable time when, after his dismal period of
                    Rotherhithe -- to which
apprenticeship at  a shudder -- he came to   he could never
look back without                            work under her

husband. She had encouraged him in his studies ; had

urged him to work for the Botanical prize at Sydenham

College ; had brightened his      life with her sympathy, and
believed firmly in the brilliant
                                  future which awaited him -- a

belief which for her sake, if for nothing else, he was eager to

justify by his best exertions.

    He had not had, so far, much opportunity of entering

the social world ; but his visit to Sydney gave him an
opportunity of entering a good society to which his com

mission in the navy was a sufficient introduction. He was

eager to find friendships if he could, for his reserve was any
                         It was not long before he made
thing but misanthropic.

the acquaintance of William Macleay, a naturalist of wide

research and great speculative ability ; and struck up a close
friendship with William Fanning, one of the leading

merchants of the town, a friendship which was to have

momentous consequences. For it was at Fanning's house

that he met his future wife, Miss Henrietta Anne Heathorn,

for whom he was to serve longer and harder than Jacob
thought to serve for Rachel, but who was to be his help

and stay for forty years, in his struggles ready to counsel,

in adversity to comfort ; the critic whose judgment he

valued above almost any, and whose praise he cared most

to win ; his first care and his latest thought, the other self,
whose union with him was a supreme example of mutual

sincerity and devotion.

     It was a case of love, if not actually at first sight, yet of

very rapid growth when he came to learn the quiet strength

and tenderness of her nature as displayed in the manage

ment of her sister's household. A certain simplicity and

directness united with an unusual degree of cultivation, had

attracted him from the first. She had been two years at

school in Germany, and her knowledge of German and of

IS48 ENGAGEMENT                                                                                           37

German literature brought them together on common ground.

Things ran very smoothly at the beginning, and the young

couple, whose united ages amounted to forty-four years,

became engaged.

      The         fumllasrruiarggeeonw--as    to take place   on his  promotion to the
rank of                                      a promotion he    hoped  to attain speedily

at the conclusion of the voyage on the strength of his

scientific work, for this was the inducement held out by the

Admiralty to energetic                        subalterns.     The     following     letter to

his sister describes the                     situation :--

... I Sydney Harbour, March 21, 1848.
           have deferred writing to you in the hope of knowing
something from yourself of your doings and whereabouts, and now

that we are on the eve of departing for a long cruise in Torres
IS"twraaitss,ist
                  gweislcl henhoenlon"georn  postpone    the giving you   some account of
                                              this side   of the world.
                                                                         weWehads,p--entnotthhrineeg
months in Sydney, and a gay three                         months of it

but balls and parties the whole time. In this corner of the

universe, where men of war are rather scarce, even the old Rattle

snake is rather a lion, and her officers are esteemed accordingly.

Besides, to tell you the truth, we are rather agreeable people than

otherwise, and can manage to get up a very decent turn-out on

board on occasion.     What think                        ydoouingoftheyo"ulrighgtravfea,ntassctiiecn"tiftioc
brother turning out a  ball-goer and
Ia great extent ? It is a great fact,
Imethod in my madness.                                        assure you. But there is a

                                             found it exceedingly disagreeable to

Icome to a great place like Sydney and think there was not a soul
who cared whether was alive or dead, so I determined to go into
Iwhat society was to be had and see if could not pick up a friend
Ior two among the multitude of the empty and frivolous.
                                                                                                          am
I Ihappy to say that have had more success than hoped for or
Ideserved, and then as now, two or three
                                                                                      can go and
feel myself at home at all times. But                                               in Sydney is
                                                              mhoyuse" showmheere"

the house of my good friend Mr. Fanning, one of the first merchants

in the place. But thereby hangs a tale which, of all people in the
Iworld, must tell you. Mrs. Fanning has a sister, and the dear
Ilittle
Imost
sister and managed                            to fall    in   loavne otwhiethr --onewaillnontohterteilnl  the
absurd manner after                          seeing      one                                              you

how few times, lest you should laugh. Do you remember how you
... Iused to talk to me about choosing a wife ? Well, think that my
choice would justify even your fastidiousness.                           I think you will
understand how happy her love ought to and does make me. I

fear that in this respect indeed the advantage is on my side, for

38               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, hi

my present wandering life and uncertain position must necessarily

give her many an anxious thought. Our future is indeed none of

Ithe clearest. Three years at the very least must elapse before the

Rattlesnake returns to England, and then unless can write myself

into my promotion or something else, we shall be just where we

Iwere. Nevertheless have the strongest persuasion that four years
Ihence shall be married and settled in England. We shall see.

    I am getting on capitally at present. Habit, inclination, and
now a sense of duty keep me at work, and the nature of our cruise

affords me opportunities such as none but a blind man would fail
Ito make use of.
                  have sent two or three papers home already to
Ibe published, which have great hopes will throw light upon some
Ihitherto obscure branches of natural history, and
                                                           have just
Ifinished a more important one, which intend to get read at the
IRoyal Society. The other day submitted it to William Macleay

(the celebrated propounder of the Quinary system), who has a

Ibeautiful place near Sydney, and, hear, "werry much approves
Iwhat have done." All this goes to the comforting side of the

question, and gives me hope of being able to follow out my favourite

pursuits in course of time, without hindrance to what is now the
IPmraoifnessoobrjienct"                                     a "Frau
    of my          life.      tell Netty to look to being
    one of         these  odd days, and she has faith, as   I believe
would have if I told her I was going to be Prime Minister.
    We go to the northward again about the 23rd of this month
I(April), and shall be away for ten or twelve months surveying in
Torres Straits.   believe we are to refit in Port Essington, and

that will be the only place approaching to civilisation that we shall

see for the whole of that time ; and after July or August next, when

a provision ship is to come up to us, we shall not even get letters.
I Ihope and trust
                   shall hear from you before then. Do not

suppose that my new ties have made me forgetful of old ones. On
I Ithe other hand, these are if anything strengthened.
                                                           Does not my

dearest Nettie love you as do ! and do not often wish that you
Icould see and love and esteem her as know you would. We often
talk about you, and I tell her stories of old times.

      Another letter, a year later, gives his mother the answers
to a string of questions which, mother-like, she had asked

him, thirsting for exact and minute information about her

future daughter-in-law :--

                                                           Sydney, Feb. 1, 1849.

mont(hAsf'tercrudiessec)r--ibinFgirsthowandhe    had just   come back from  a  nine
                                               foremost,   my dear mother,     must
                                                                            I
Ithank you for your very kind letter of September 1848.
                                                                               read
Ithe greater part of it to Nettie, who was as much pleased as

1848 AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY                                                         39

with your kindly wishes towards both of us. Now I suppose I

must do my best to answer your questions. First, as to age,
Nettie is about three months younger than myself-- that is the

difference in our years, but  she is                    in fact as much younger than her
                               mine.                        Next, as to complexion she is
Iyears as am older than
                                                                                   Then
Iexceedingly   fair, with the Saxon  yellow hair and                blue eyes.
                  really don't know   whether she is                pretty or   not. I
as to face,

Ihave never been able to decide the matter in my own mind.
Sometimes      think she  I is,and sometimes wonder how the idea
                                                          a

                                                               I
                                                                        I
ever came into my head. Whether or not, her personal appear

ance has nothing whatever to do with the hold she has upon my

mind, for have seen hundreds of prettier women. But never
          I                                                                     I
                                                                                  I
met with so sweet temper, so self-sacrificing and affectionate
                  a                                                                          a
disposition, or so pure and womanly mind, and from the perfectly
                    I
intimate footing on which stand with her family have plenty of
opportunities of judging. As tell her, the only great folly am
                                 II
aware of her being guilty of was the leaving her happiness in the
hands of man like myself, struggling upwards and certain of
        is I
nothing.    a

As to my future intentions can say very little about them.

With my present income, of course, marriage               a         rather bad look
                                                                is         a

out, but do not think would be at all fair towards N. herself
                          it

...to leave this country without giving her wife's claim upon me.
       It very unlikely shall ever remain in the colony. Nothing
but very favourable chance could induce me to do so.
a    Much must depend upon how things go in England.

                                                                                If my

various papers meet with any success, may perhaps be able to
leave the service. At present, however,                   II
                                                                 I
                                                          have not heard word
                                                                                Ia
of anything have sent. Professor Forbes has, believe, published
           I

some of MacGillivray's letters to him, but he has apparently for

gotten to write to MacGillivray himself, or to me. So shalla
certainly send him nothing more, especially as Mr. MacLeay (of
this place, and great man in the naturalist world) has offered to
get anything of mine sent to the Zoological Society.

In the paper mentioned in the letter of March 21, above

On the Anatomy and Affinities of the Family of the
("
                 "),
                                                                                                          a
Medusae        Huxley aimed at " giving broad and general

views of the whole class, considered as organised upon

given type, and inquiring into its relations with other

families," unlike previous observers whose patience and
ability had been devoted rather to " stating matters of

detail concerning particular                            --genera and species."  At the
outset, section (Sci. Mem.,                               11), he states
I
                             8
                                                      i.
   would wish to lay particular stress upon the composition of

4°           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 CHAP. Ill

this (the stomach)   and other organs      of the Medusae out of two
distinct membranes,                        it is one of the essential
                     as I believe that

peculiarities of their structure, and that a knowledge of the fact is

of great importance in investigating their homologies. I will call

these  two   membranes   oragsanssu, ch",   and independently of any  modifica
tions  into  particular                    foundation membranes."

     And in section 56 (p. 23) one of the general conclusions
which he deduces from his observations, is

     That a Medusa consists essentially of two membranes inclosing
a variously-shaped cavity, inasmuch as its various organs are so

composed,

a peculiarity shared by certain other families of zoophytes.
This is the point which that eminent authority, Professor G.

J. Allman, had in his mind when he wrote to call my

attention

Ito a fact which has been overlooked in all the notices have seen,
Iand which regard as one of the greatest claims of his splendid
Iwork on the recognition of zoologists.
                                           refer to his discovery

that the body of the Medusae is essentially composed of two

membranes, an outer and an inner, and his recognition of these as

the homologues of the two primary germinal leaflets in the

vertebrate embryo. Now this discovery stands at the very basis of
a philosophic zoology, and of a true conception of the affinities of
animals. It is the ground on which Haeckel has founded his

famous Gastraea Theory, and without it Kowalesky could never
have announced his great discovery of the affinity of the Ascidians

and Vertebrates, by which zoologists had been startled.

               CHAPTER IV

               1848-1850

The whole cruise of the Rattlesnake lasted almost precisely

four years, her stay in Australian waters nearly three. Of

this time altogether eleven months were spent at Sydney,

namely, July 16 to October 11, 1847; January 14 to

February 2, and March 9 to April 29, 1848 ; January 24
to May 8, 1849; and February 14 to May 2, 1850. The
               oIfnsthhoerefirPsat ssnaogreth--ertnhecrupiassesawgee,rethsaptent
three months   a                                                                  in the
                                                                                  within
survey of the                                          1

                                                                       is,
the Great Barrier Reef for ships proceeding from India to

Sydney. In 1848, while waiting for the right season to

visit Torres Straits, short cruise was made in February

and March, to inspect the lighthouses in Bass' Straits. It

was on this occasion that Huxley visited Melbourne, then

an insignificant town, before the discovery of gold had

brought a rush of immigrants.

The second northern cruise of 848, which lasted nine

months, had for its object the completion of the survey of

the Inner Passage as far as New Guinea and the adjoining

archipelago. The third cruise in 1849-50 again lasted nine
months, and continued the survey in Torres Straits, the

Louisiade archipelago, and the south-eastern part of New

Guinea. After this the original plan was to make a

fourth cruise, filling up the charts of the Inner Passage

on the east coast, and surveying the straits of Alass

between Lombok and Sumbawa in the Malay Archi

pelago then, instead of returning to Sydney, to proceed
;

to Singapore and so home by the Cape.  But these

plans were altered by the untimely death of Captain Stanley

42  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, 1v

on March 1 3, and the Rattlesnake sailed for England direct
in May 1850.

      There was a great monotony about these cruises, particu
larly to those who were not constantly engaged in the active
work of surveying. The ship sailed slowly from place to place,
hunting out reefs and islets ; a stay of a few days would be

made at some lonely island, while charting expeditions went
out in the boats or supplies of water and fresh fruits were
laid in. On the second expedition there were two cases of

scurvy on board by the time the mail from Sydney reached

the ship at Cape York with letters and lime-juice, the first
reminder of civilisation for four months and a half. On this
cruise there was an unusual piece of interest in Kennedy's

ill-fated expedition, which the Rattlesnake landed in Rock

ingham Bay, and trusted to meet again at Cape York. Happy
it was for Huxley that his duties forbade him to accept
Kennedy's proposal to join the expedition. After months
of weary struggles in the dense scrub, Kennedy himself,

who had pushed on for help with his faithful black man
Jacky, was speared by the natives when almost in sight of

Cape York ; Jack barely managed to make his way there

through his enemies, and guided a party to the rescue of
the two starved and exhausted survivors of the disease-

stricken camp by the Sugarloaf Hill. It was barely time.

Another hour, and they too would have been killed by the
crowd of blackfellows who hovered about in hopes of booty,

and were only dispersed for a moment by the rescue party.

      On the third cruise there were a few adventures more

directly touching the Rattlesnake. Twice the landing parties,
including Huxley, were within an ace of coming to blows
with the islanders of the Louisiades, and on one occasion a
portly member of the gun-room, being cut off by these

black gentry, only saved his life by parting with all his

clothes as presents to them, and keeping them amused by
an impromptu dance in a state of nature under the broiling

sun, until a party came to his relief. At Cape York also,

a white woman was rescued who had been made prisoner
by the blacks from a wreck, and had lived among them
for several years. Here, too, Huxley and MacGillivray

made a trip inland, and were welcomed by a native chief,

1849 VOYAGE OF THE 'RATTLESNAKE'                            43

who saw in the former the returning spirit of his dead

brother.

Throughout the voyage Huxley was busy with his

pencil, and many lithographs from his drawings illustrate
the account of the voyage afterwards published. As to
his scientific work, he was accumulating a large stock of

observations, but felt rather sore about the papers which he

had already sent home, for no word had reached him as to

their fate, not even that they had been received or looked over
by Forbes, to whom they had been consigned. As a matter
of fact, they had not been neglected, as he was to find out
on his return ; but meanwhile the state of affairs was not

reassuring to a man whose dearest hopes were bound up in

the reception he could win for these and similar researches.
Altogether, it was with no little joy that he turned his back
on the sweltering heat of Torres Straits, on the great moun
tains of New Guinea, the Owen Stanley range, which had

remained hidden from D'Urville in the Astrolabe to be dis

covered by the explorers on the Rattlesnake, and the far
stretching archipelago of the Louisiades, one tiny island in
which still bears the name of Huxley, after the assistant-

surgeon of the Rattlesnake.

     A few extracts from letters of the time will give a more

...vivid idea of what the voyage was like.   The first  is  from

a letter to his mother, dated February 1,   1849 :--

          I suppose you have wondered at the long intervals of my
Iletters, but my silence has been forced.
                                           wrote from Rockingham

Bay in May, and from Cape York in October. After leaving the

latter place we have had no communication with any one but the

folks at Port Essington, which is a mere military post, without any

certain means of communication with England. We were ten

weeks on our passage from Port Essington to Sydney and touched

nowhere, so that you may imagine we were pretty well tired of the

sea by the time we reached Port Jackson.
     Thank God we are now safely anchored in our old quarters,

and for the next three months shall enjoy a few of those comforts

that make life worth the living. . . .
     The only place we have visited since my last budget to you was

Port Essington, a military post which has been an object of much

attention for some time past in connection with the steam naviga

tion between Sydney and India. It is about the most useless,
miserable, ill-managed hole in Her Majesty's dominions. Placed

44            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      CHAP. IV

fifteen miles inland on the swampy banks of an estuary out of

reach of the sea breezes, it is the most insufferably hot and ener

vating place imaginable. The temperature of the water alongside

the ship was from 88 to 90, i.e. about that of a moderately warm

bath, so that you may fancy what it is on land. Added to this,

the commandant is a litigious old fool, always at war with his
officers, and endeavouring to make the place as much of a hell

morally as it is physically. Little more than two years ago a
detachment of sixty men came out to the settlement. At the
Iparade on the Sunday was there ; there were just ten men present.
IThe rest were invalided, dead, or sick.  have no hesitation in

saying that half of this was the result of ill-management.                                            The

climate in itself is not particularly unhealthy. We were all glad to

get away from the place.

    Another is to his sister, under date Sydney, March 14,
1 849 :--

   IBy the way, may as well give you a short account of our

cruise. We started from here last May to survey what is called

the inner passage to India. You must know that the east coast of

Australia has running parallel to it at distances of from five miles

to seventy or eighty an almost continuous line of coral reefs, the

Great Barrier as it is called. Outside this line is the great Pacific,

inside is a space varying in width as above, and cut up by little
islands and detached reefs. Now to get to India from Sydney, ships
must go either inside or outside the Great Barrier. The inside passage
has been called the Inner Route in consequence of its desirability

for steamers, and our business has been to mark out this Inner

Route safely and clearly among the labyrinth-like islands and reefs
within the Barrier. And a parlous dull business it was for those

who, like myself, had no necessary and constant occupation. Fancy
for five mortal months shifting from patch to patch of white sand

in latitude from 17 to 10 south, living on salt pork and beef, and
seeing no mortal face but our own sweet countenances considerably

obscured by the long  beard  caonmdfomrto,uswtaechehsadwibtehcowmheich,adpoarrntleyd.fromI
laziness and partly   from

cultivated a peak in Charles I. style, which imparted a remarkably

peculiar and triste expression to my sunburnt phiz, heightened by
Ithe fact that
                                                                            of very
questionable
              1
                 1

                     aa

                         I

                                                  a

                                                             it
                                                                                          it,
                                                                                                   a
           authbeurnaf--oremsayidmebsesmaradteswasc,alledregrerted.to  say

    We convoyed land expedition as far as the Rockingham Bay

in 17 south under Mr. Kennedy, which was to work its way up to
Cape York in  south and there meet us. A fine noble fellow

poor Kennedy was too.        was good deal with him at Rocking

ham Bay, and indeed accompanied him in the exploring trips which

he made for some four or five days in order to see how the land

1850 SECOND CRUISE OF THE 'RATTLESNAKE'                                    45

lay about him. In fact we got on so well together that he wanted

me much to accompany him and join the ship again at Cape York,

and if the Service would have permitted of my absence I should
certainly have done so. But it was well I did not. Out of thirteen

men composing the party but three remain alive. The rest have

perished by starvation or the spears of the natives. Poor Kennedy

himself had, in company with the black fellow attached to the

party, by dint of incredible exertions, pushed on until he came

within sight of the provision vessel waiting his arrival at Cape

York. But here, within grasp of his object, a large party of natives

attacked and killed him. The black fellow alone reached Cape

York with the news. The other two men who were saved were the

sole survivors of the party Kennedy left behind him at a spot near

the coast, and were picked up by the provision vessel when she

returned.                                                                 I say home

    IYou may be sure am not sorry to return home.

advisedly, for my friend Fanning's house is as completely my home
as it well can be. And then Nettie had not heard anything of me
...for six months, so that I have been petted and spoiled ever since
we came in.       I IAs tell her fear she has rested her happiness

on a very insecure foundation ; but she is full of hope and con

fidence, and to me her love is the faith that moveth mountains.

IWe have, as you  may be sure,   amothttoou, sa"nDdedli'fafuicdualctiees   in our way,
                    take for my                                           et encore de
but like Danton

l'audace et toujours de l'audace," and look forward to a happy

termination, nothing doubting.

                  To his Mother

(Announcing the probable time of his return).

                                                   Sydney, Feb. 11, 1850.

I cannot at all realise the idea of our return. We have been

leading such a semi-savage life for years past, such a wandering

nomadic existence, that any other seems in a manner unnatural to

me. Time was when I should have looked upon our return with

unmixed joy; but so many new and strong ties have arisen to

unite me with Sydney, that now when the anchor is getting up for
IEngland, scarcely know whether to rejoice or to grieve. You
Imust not be angry, my dear Mother ;
Ifor you or any other of those whom   have none the less affection

                                    love in England -- only a very
Igreat deal for a certain little lassie whom must leave behind me
without clearly seeing when we are to meet again. You must
"Aremember
Ifather and
mthoethSecrriapntudrecleaasvemuynteoxchuisse," (I      man shall leave his
                                                   wish could add) wife.

46  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           CHAP. IV

Our long cruises are fine times for reflection, and during the last I

determined that we would be terribly prudent and get married

about 1870, or the Greek Kalends, or, what is about the same

thing, whenever I am afflicted with the malheur de richesses.
    People talk about the satisfaction of an approving conscience.
    Imfeeelinmteuncshelym;orbeutinIc'llilnebed  hanged if  "Iwsoersee
...Mine approves                                                       the satis
                                                to swear                than our
faction of it.
armies in Flanders."                  So far as my private doings are con
I Icerned, hear very satisfactory news of them.
                                                 heard from an old

messmate of mine at Haslar the other day that Dr. MacWilliam,
F.R.S., one of our deputy-inspectors, had been talking about one of

my papers, and gave him to understand that it was to be printed.

Furthermore, he is a great advocate for the claims of assistant
Isurgeons to ward-room rank, and all that sort of stuff, and,
                                                                       am
told, quoted me as an example ! Henceforward I look upon the
learned doctor as a man of sound sense and discrimination ! With
Iout joking, however, am glad to have come under his notice, as he
Imay be of essential use to me.
                                      find myself getting horribly selfish,

looking at everything with regard to the influence it may have on

my grand objects.

    Further descriptions of the voyage are to be drawn from

an article in the Westminster Review for January 1854
(vol. v.), in which, under the title of" Science at Sea," Huxley
reviewed the Voyage of the Rattlesnake by MacGillivray,
the naturalist to the expedition, which had recently appeared.
This book gave very few descriptions of the incidents and

life on board, and so drew in many ways a colourless picture

of the expedition. This defect the reviewer sought to remedy
by giving extracts from the so-called " unpublished corre
                                      the officers -- sketches apparently written
sfopronthdeenoccec"asoiofnon--e aosf
                                      well as from an equally unpublished but

more real journal kept by the same hand.

    The description of the ship herself, of her inadequate

equipment for the special purposes she was to carry out, of

the officers' quiet contempt of scientific pursuits, which not

even the captain's influence was able to subdue, of the

illusory promises of help and advancement held out by the

Admiralty to young investigators, makes a striking foil to

the spirit in which the Government of thirty years later

undertook a greater scientific expedition. Perhaps some
vivid recollections of this voyage did something to better the

conditions under which the later investigators worked.

1846 EQUIPMENT OF A SURVEYING SHIP                                              47

Thus, p. 100 :

In the year 1846, Captain Owen Stanley, a young and zealous

officer, of good report for his capabilities as a scientific surveyor,

was entrusted with the command of the Rattlesnake, a vessel of six-
                                                                                un
and-twenty guns, strong and    seaworthy, but  "odnoenkoefy-tfhriagtatcel.a"ss  To
enviably distinguished in the  war-time as a

the laity it would seem that a ship journeying to unknown regions,

when the lives of a couple of hundred men may, at any moment,

depend upon her handiness in going about, so as to avoid any

suddenly discovered danger, should possess the best possible sailing
powers. The Admiralty, however, makes its selection upon other

principles, and exploring vessels will be invariably found to be the

slowest, clumsiest, and in every respect the most inconvenient ships
which wear the pennant. In accordance with the rule, such was

the Rattlesnake ; and to carry out the spirit of the authorities more

completely, she was turned out of Portsmouth dockyard in such a

disgraceful state of unfitness, that her lower deck was continually

under water during the voyage.

      Again, p. 100 :

     It is necessary to be provided with books of reference, which
are ruinously expensive to a private individual, though a mere dew
drop in the general cost of the fitting-out of a ship, especially as

they might be kept in store, and returned at the end of a com

mission, like other stores. A hundred pounds would have well

supplied the Rattlesnake; but she sailed without a volume, an
application made by her captain not having been attended to.

       P. 103 :

     Of all those who were actively engaged upon the survey, the
young commander alone was destined by inevitable fate to be
robbed of his just reward. Care and anxiety, from the mobility of
his temperament, sat not so lightly upon him as they might have
done, and this, joined to the physical debility produced by the
enervating climate of New Guinea, fairly wore him out, making him
prematurely old before much more than half of the allotted span
was completed. But he died in harness, the end attained, the work
that lay before him honourably done. Which of us may dare to
ask for more ? He has raised an enduring monument in his works,
and his epitaph shall be the grateful thanks of many a mariner thread
ing his way among the mazes of the Coral Sea.

       P. 104:

      The world enclosed within the timbers of a man-of-war is a most
remarkable community, hardly to be rendered vividly intelligible to

48  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             chap, iv

the mere landsman in these days of constitutional government and
freedom of the press.

      Then follows a vigorous sketch of sea life from Chamisso,
suggesting that the type of one's relation to the captain is
to be found in Jean Paul's Biography of the Twins, who were
united back to back. This sketch Huxley enforces by a
passage from the imaginary journal aforesaid, " indited

apparently when the chains were yet new and somewhat
galled the writer," to judge from which " little alteration
would seem to have taken place in nautical life" since

Chamisso's voyage, thirty years before.

     You tell me (he writes), that you sigh for my life of freedom
and adventure ; and that, compared with mine, the conventional
monotony of your own stinks in your nostrils. My dear fellow, be

Ipatient, and listen to what have to say ; you will then, perhaps,

be a little more content with your lot in life, and a little less desirous

of mine. Of all extant lives, that on board a ship-of-war is the most

artificial -- whether necessarily so or not is a question I will not

undertake to decide ; but the fact is indubitable.
     How utterly disgusted you get with one another ! Little pecu

liarities which would give a certain charm and variety to social

intercourse under any other circumstances, become sources of

absolute pain, and almost uncontrollable irritation, when you are

shut up with them day and night. One good friend and messmate
of mine has a peculiar laugh, whose iteration on our last cruise

nearly drove me insane.

    There is no being alone in a ship. Sailors are essentially

gregarious animals,  and don't    at all understand  --thoef  necessity   under
which many people                                              having    a little
                      labour --  I among the rest
solitary converse with one self occasionally.

    Then, to a landsman fresh from ordinary society and its pecu

liarly undemonstrative ways, there is something very wonderful

about naval discipline. I do not mean to say that the subordina

tion kept up is more than is necessary, nor perhaps is it in reality

greater than is to be found in a college, or a regiment, or a large
mercantile house ; but it is made so very obvious. You not only

feel the bit, but you see it ; and your bridle is hung with bells to tell

you of its presence.
     Your captain is a very different person, in relation to his officers,

from the colonel of a regiment ; he is a demi-god, a Dalai lama,

living in solitary state ; sublime, unapproachable ; and the radia
tion of his dignity stretches through all the other members of the

nautical hierarchy ; hence all sorts of petty intrigues, disputes,

      1848 SCIENCE AT SEA                                                                                                                        49

g"riudmlebr,l"inggsiv, e  and     jealousies,    which, to         the        irreverent eye of an
                           to   the whole      little society      the        aspect of nothing so

much as the court of Prinz Irenaeus in Kater Murr's inestimable

autobiography.

           P. 107 sq. :

           After describing the illusory promises of the Admiralty

      and   their grudging           cosnptirinituetos w:--ards    the  scientific                                       members of
      the  expedition, he

            These are the facilities and encouragement to science afforded by
      the Admiralty ; and it cannot be wondered at if the same spirit runs

      through its subordinate officers.                            opposition -- quite the                                   reverse.
           Not that there is any active

      But it is a curious fact, that if you want a boat for dredging, ten

      chances to one they are always actually or potentially otherwise

      disposed of; if you leave your towing-net trailing astern in search

      of new creatures, in some promising patch of discoloured water, it

a is, in all probability, found to have wonderful effect in stopping
     a                                           ?
      the ship's way, and hauled in as soon as your back turned ora
                                     is                                                                                  is

                                                                                                                                              ;

      ascare"fmulesdsi.s"section waiting to be drawn may find its way overboard

           The singular disrespect with which the majority of naval officers

      regard everything that lies beyond the sphere of routine, tends to

      produce tone of feeling very unfavourable to scientific exertions.
           it a
      How can be otherwise, in fact, with men who, from the age of

      tthheirte"eQn,uemeene'st  wreigthulantioonsinfluaenndceinbsturtuctthiaotnsw"hicahre  teaches them                      that
                                                                                            the law and                       the

      prophets, and something more

           It may be said, without fear of contradiction, that in time of

      peace the only vessels which are engaged in services involving any

      real hardship             or   danger are  those employed upon                                                     the various
      surveys; and              yet  the men of
                                                 easy routine -- harbour                                                 heroes -- the

      officers of  regular men-of-war,         ofasshtihrekyingd--eliginhtsetoa-pbheracsael,led,"sloppreintgen."d
      to think
                   surveying             kind
      is
                                          a

                                                                                                                      ;
      It to be regretted that the officers of the surveying vessels them

      selves are too often imbued with the same spirit and though, for

      shame's sake, they can but stand up for hydrography, they are too

      apt  dtoigtnhitinykofanthaelilriadnicveinwityith--tohtehe"r  branches   of  science                                as  beneath
      the                                                          Service."

            P. 112:

            Any adventures ashore were mere oases, separated by whole
      deserts of the most wearisome ennui. For weeks, perhaps, those
      who were not fortunate enough to be living hard and getting fatigued
      every day in the boats were yawning away their existence in an

             VOL.
           I

                                                                                             E

                  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                         chap, iv

atmosphere only comparable to that of an orchid-house, a life in

view of which that of Mariana in the moated grange has its

attractions.

For instance,            !Aceounngcosuriesdteert1t8ot4uh9jiosu:--resx--tractwofrnodmer  the journal of     one   of
                                                                                                           for  the
Ithe              date                                                                  if it is possible
"ofRficaeinrs, !  rain

mind of man to conceive anything more degradingly offensive than

the condition of us 1 50 men, shut up in this wooden box, and being

watered with hot water, as we are now. It is no exaggeration to

say hot, for the temperature is that at which people at home

commonly take a hot bath. It rains so hard that we have caught
seven tons of water in one day, and it is therefore impossible to go
on deck, though, if one did, one's condition would not be much
improved. A hot Scotch mist covers the sea and hides the land,

so that no surveying can be done ; moving about in the slightest

I Idegree causes a flood of perspiration to pour out ; all energy is

completely gone, and if could help it would not think even ; it's
too hot. The rain awnings are spread, and we can have no wind
sails up ; if we could, there is not a breath of wind to fill them ; and

consequently the lower and main decks are utterly un ventilated : a

sort of solution of man in steam fills them from end to end, and
surrounds the lights with a lurid halo. It's too hot to sleep, and

my sole amusement consists in watching the cockroaches, which are

in a state of     inveterynsreemexacritkeambelentmaannndehra--ppainseusdsd. en          They manifest these
feelings in a                                                                            unanimous impulse

seems to seize the obscene thousands which usually lurk hidden in

the corners of my cabin. Out they rush, helter-skelter, and run

over me, my table, and my desk ; others, more vigorous, fly, quite

regardless of consequences, until they hit against something, upon

which, half spreading their wings, they make their heads a pivot

and spin round in a circle, in a manner which indicates a temporary

aberration of the cockroach mind. It is these outbreaks alone

which rouse us from our lassitude. Knocks are heard resounding

on all sides, and each inhabitant of a cabin, armed with a slipper,

is seen taking ample revenge upon the disturbers of his rest and

the destroyers of his body and clothes."

Here, on the                  other hand,   --is  an    oasis, a                        bartering  scene at
                               Louisiade :          as   before,                        and this   time the
Brun"yWIselalnadn,deind  the
                          at  the same place

natives ran down prancing and gesticulating. Many of them had

garlands of green leaves round their heads, knees, and ankles ;
some wore long streamers depending from their arms and ears and

floating in the wind as they galloped along, shaking their spears

and prancing just as boys do when playing at horses. They soon
surrounded us, shouting ' Kelumai ! Kelumai ! ' (their word for
iron), and offering us all sorts of things in exchange. One very

1849 INCIDENT A T BRUNY ISLAND                                                                         $1

fine athletic man, ' Kai-oo-why-who-at ' by name, was perfectly mad

to get an axe, and very soon comprehended the arrangements that

were made. Mr. Brady drew ten lines on the sand and laid an axe
down by them, giving K
                        (I really can't write that long name
all over again) to understand by signs that when there was a
' bahar ' (yam) on every mark he should have the axe. He com

prehended directly, and bolted off as fast as he could run, soon

returning with his hands full of yams, which he deposited one by

one on the appropriate lines ; then fearful lest some of the others

should do him out of the axe, he caught hold of Brady by the arm,

and would not let him go until yams enough had been brought by

the others to make up the number, and the axe was handed over

to him.
     " Then was there a yell of delight ! He jumped up with the

axe, flourished passed to his companions, tumbled down and
I
         Ia
              I

                    I it,
                                             a
                            Ia
                                           it
                                      I
rolled over, kicking up his heels in the air, and finally, catching

hold of me, we had grand waltz, with various poses plastiques, for

about quarter of mile.                          daresay he was unsophisticated

enough to imagine that was filled with sympathetic joy, but grieve
                                                                                                       ;I
to say that was taking care all the while to direct his steps
towards the village, which, as we had as yet examined none of their                                            I

houses, was most desirous of entering under my friend's sanction.

think he suspected something, for he looked at me rather

dubiously when directed our steps towards the entrance in the

bush which led to the houses, and wanted me to go back but

was urgent, so he gave way, and we both entered the open space,

where we were joined by two or three others, and sat down under

cocoanut tree.
   " persuaded him to sit for his portrait (taking care first that my
a

     I

                    '

                                                          a
                                                              a

                                               I
                                                                                                    a
back was against the tree and my pistols handy), and we ate green

cocoanuts together, at last attaining to so great pitch of intimacy
that he made me change names with him, calling himself 'Tamoo'

(my Cape York name), and giving me to understand that was to
                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                         ;
take his own lengthy appellation. When did so, and talked to

him as Tamoo,' nothing could exceed the delight of all around

they patted me as you would child, and evidently said to one

another, 'This really seems to be very intelligent white fellow.'
     " Like the Cape York natives, they were immensely curious to

look at one's legs, asking permission, very gently but very pressingly,

to pull up the trouser, spanning the calf with their hands, drawing

in their breath and making big eyes all the while. Once, when the

front of my shirt blew open, and they saw the white skin of my

chest, they set up an universal shout.          I  imagine that as they paint

their faces black, they fancied that we ingeniously coloured ours

white, and were astonished to see that we were really of that (to
them) disgusting tint all over."

    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                    CHAP. IV

      On May 2, 1850, the Rattlesnake sailed for the last time

out of Sydney harbour, bound for England by way of the
Horn. In spite of his cheerful anticipations, Huxley was

not to see his future wife again for five years more, when he

was at length in a position to bid her come and join him.
During the three years of their engagement in Australia,

they had at least been able to see each other at intervals,
and to be together for months at a time. In the long
periods of absence, also, they had invented a device to cheat
the sense of separation. Each kept a particular journal, to

be exchanged when they met again, and only to be read,

day by day, during the next voyage. But now it was
very different, their only means of communication being the
slow agency of the post, beset with endless possibilities of

misunderstanding when it brought belated answers to ques

tions already months old and out of date in the changed

aspect of circumstances.                      These perils, however, they

weathered, and it proves how deep in the moral nature of

each the bond between them was rooted, that in the end
they passed safely through the still greater danger of imper

ceptibly growing estranged from one another under the
influences of such utterly different surroundings.

     A kindly storm which forced the old ship to put into

the Bay of Islands to repair a number of small leaks that

rendered the lower deck uninhabitable, made it possible for
Huxley to send back a letter that should reach Australia in

one month instead of ten after his departure.
      He utilized a week's stay here characteristically enough

in an expedition to Waimate, the chief missionary station
and the school of the native institutions (a sort of Normal
School for native teachers), in order to judge of his own

inspection what missionary life was like.

II      have been greatly              surprised in these good      people (he writes).
  had expected a good                  deal of straight-hairedruss        you understand
                                              I

                                                    (if
                                                          it
the phrase) and methodistical puritanism, but find quite other
iwnigse--. stBraoitghhtfMorrw. aarndd
                                        Mrs.   Burrows seem very quiet and      unpretend
                                       folks  desirous of doing their best for  the people

among whom they are placed.

      One touch must not be allowed to pass unnoticed in
his appreciation of the missionaries' unstudied welcome to

1850 THE FALKLAND ISLANDS                                                         53

the belated    travellers, whose proper host            was       unable to take
               " tea unlimited and a blazing            fire,     together with a
them in :--

very nice cat."

   By July 12, midwinter of course in the southern hemi

sphere, they had rounded the Horn, and Huxley writes from

tIshlaatndsm:o--st desolate of British possessions, the Falkland

    I have great hopes of being able to send a letter to you, via

California, even from this remote corner of the world. It is the
Ultima Thule and no mistake. Fancy two good-sized islands with

undulated surface and sometimes elevated hills, but without tree or

bush as tall as a man. When we arrived the 8th inst. the barren

uniformity was rendered still more obvious by the deep coating of
                                                        How can I describe to
s"nSotwanlweyh,i"chtheensvoeleloptoewdn,  everything.                             you
                                           metropolis,  and seat of government ?
                                                                                    It

consists of a lot of black, low, weatherboard houses scattered along

the hillsides which rise round the harbour. One barnlike place

is Government House, another the pensioners' barracks, rendered

imposing by four field-pieces in front ; others smaller are the resi

dences of the colonel, surgeon, etc. In one particularly black and un

promising-looking house lives a Mrs. Sullivan (sic) the wife of Captain

ISullivan,1 who surveyed these islands, and has settled out here.
                 aIncdoumldyshealfvesahidad"
Iasked myself if                                                  you to    such a
                                                                   believe   she is
desolate place,
                                              the heart to bring
                                              No." However,

Ivery happy with her children. Sullivan is a fine energetic man, so
suppose if she loves him, well and good, and fancies              she not
                                                        I aI
                                                                 I (is

                                                                                               a
silly woman that she has her reward. Mrs. Stanley has gone to
               ?)
                                     is

                                          it
stay with them while the ship remains here, and think shall go

and look them up under pretence of making call. They say

that the present winter                   far more savage than the generality of

Falkland Island winters, and had need be, for never felt any

thing so bitterly cold in my life. The thermometer has been down

below 22, and shallow parts of the harbour even have frozen.

Nothing to be done ashore. My rifle lies idle in its case no
                                                                            ;

chance of shot at bull, and one has to go away 20 miles to get
   is            a
            a               a
hold even of the upland geese and rabbits. The only thing to be

done to eat, eat, eat, and the cold assists one wonderfully in that
operation. You consume pound or so of beefsteaks at breakfast

and then walk the deck for an appetite at dinner, when you take

        Captain Sulivan, who sailed with Darwin in the Beagle, and served with1
gTeat distinction in command of the southern division of the fleet in the battle of
Obligado (Plate River), had surveyed the Falkland Islands many years before his
temporary settlement there. During the Crimean War he was surveying officer
to the Baltic fleet, and afterwards naval adviser to the Board of Trade. He was
afterwards Admiral and K.C.B.

54             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                        CHAP. IV

another pound or two of beef or a goose, or some such trifle. By

four o'clock it is dark night, and as it is too cold to read the only

thing to be done is to vanish under blankets as soon as possible

and take twelve or fourteen hours' sleep.

    IMrs. Stanley's Bougirigards,* which have taken under my care

during the cold weather, admire this sort of thing exceedingly and

thrive under so suppose ought to.
       ;
             it,

              I
                         I
favouTrhaeblejournneoygafrleosm--Nqeuwite Zethaelanredvehresree--habsutbeleignhtupvoanriatbhlee  whole
                                                                                                 winds

and calms. The latter part of our voyage has, however, been very

cold, snow falling in abundance, and the ice forming great stalac

tites about our bows. We have seen no icebergs nor anything

remarkable. From all can learn                              most probable that we shall
               a

                      II

                                          it
                                                    it
                                                        is
leave in about week and shall go direct to England without stop

ping at any other port.  wish may be so.                                     want to get home
                                                                             I
and look about me.                                                                      I is

    We have had news up to the end of March. There                                             nothing

of any importance going on. By the Navy list for April see that

    shall be as nearly as possible in the middle of those of my own
I
       I is

          I
rank, i.e. shall have about 150 above and as many below me.
This about what ought to expect in the ordinary run of pro
               I

                       ;

                        II

                                             a
motion in eight years, and have served four and half of that
                                                                             I
                                                                                       a
time.  don't expect much in the way of promotion, especially in

these economic times but do not fear that shall be able to

keep me in England for at least year after our arrival, in order to
publish my papers. The Admiralty have quite recently published

    distinct declaration that they will consider scientific attainments
a
    a
as claim to their notice, and expect to be the first to remind
                         I
them of their promise, and will take care to have the reminderit I

so backed that they must and shall take note of it. Even                                       a if  they

will not promote me at once, would answer our purpose to have
an appointment to some ship on the home station for short

time.

     The last of the Falklands was seen on July 25 the

line was crossed in thirty-six days another month, and
                         it
water running short,                                          ;
                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                            5,
                         was found necessary to put in

at the Azores for a week. Leaving Fayal on October

the Rattlesnake reached Plymouth on the 23rd, but next

day proceeded to Chatham, which, thanks to baffling

winds, was not reached till November 9, when the ship

was paid off.

               The Australian love-bird                                      small parrakeet.
               1
                                                                     ;
                                                                          a

                   CHAPTER V

                                    1850-185 i

In the Huxley Lecture for 1898 (Times, October 4) Pro

fessor Virchow takes occasion to speak of the effect of
Huxley's service in the Rattlesnake upon his intellectual

development :--

      When Huxley himself left Charing Cross Hospital in 1846, he
had enjoyed a rich measure of instruction in anatomy and physio
logy. Thus trained, he took the post of naval surgeon, and by the
time that he returned, four years later, he had become a perfect
zoologist and a keen-sighted ethnologist. How this was possible
any one will readily understand who knows from his own experience
how great the value of personal observation is for the development
of independent and unprejudiced thought. For a young man
who, besides collecting a rich treasure of positive knowledge, has
practised dissection and the exercise of a critical judgment, a long
sea-voyage and a peaceful sojourn among entirely new surround
ings afford an invaluable opportunity for original work and deep
reflection. Freed from the formalism of the schools, thrown upon
the use of his own intellect, compelled to test each single object as
regards properties and history, he soon forgets the dogmas of the
prevailing system and becomes, first a sceptic, and then an investi
gator. This change, which did not fail to affect Huxley, and through
which arose that Huxley whom we commemorate to-day, is no un
known occurrence to one who is acquainted with the history, not
only of knowledge, but also of scholars.

      But he was not destined to find his subsequent path
easy. Once in England, indeed, he did not lose any
time. No sooner had the Rattlesnake touched at Plymouth
than Commander Yule, who had succeeded Captain Stanley
in the command of the ship, wrote to the head of the Naval

56                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                              chap, v

Medical Department stating the circumstances under which

Huxley's zoological investigations had been undertaken, and

asking the sanction  inosfetnhdeingAdthmeirfaolrtmy aflorpertmheisisriopn,ubsliacyastio:--n.
The hydrographer,

    But I have to add that their Lordships will not allow any charge

to be made upon the public funds towards the expense. You will,

however, further assure Mr. Huxley that any assistance that can be

supplied from this office shall be most cheerfully given to him, and

that I heartily hope, from the capacity and taste for scientific in

vestigation for which you give him credit, that he will produce a

work alike creditable to himself, to his late Captain, by whom he

                  and to Her Majesty's service.
was selected for;

                         it,

                                          :

                                         if

                                                                            a

                                                                        if
    Personally, the hydrographer took            great interest in

science but as for the department, Huxley somewhat

bitterly interpreted the official meaning of this well-sounding
flourish to be made " Publish you can, and give us credit

for granting every facility except the one means of

publishing."                                                                                                            the
     Happily there was another way of publishing,

Admiralty would grant him time to arrange his papers and
superintend their publication. The Royal Society had at

their disposal an annual grant of money for the publication

of scientific works. If the Government would not contri

bute directly to publish the researches made under their

auspices, the favourable reception which his preliminary

papers had met with led Huxley to hope that his greater

work would be undertaken by the Royal Society. If the

leading men of science attested the value of his work, the

Admiralty might be induced to let him stay in England with

the nominal appointment as assistant surgeon to H.M.S. Fis

guard at Woolwich, for " particular service," but with leave

of absence from the ship so that he could live and pursue

his avocations in London. There was precedent for this
course in the case of Dr. Hooker, when he had to work out
         I
                                                                 a
                                                                                                                     :
the scientific results of the voyage of the Erebus and

Terror.

      In this design he was fortified by his old Haslar friend,
Dr. (afterwards Sir John) Watt Reid, who wrote " They
cannot, and, am sure, will not wish to stand in your way

at Whitehall." Meanwhile, the first person, naturally, he

1850 SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF THE VOYAGE                                                          57

had thought of consulting was his old chief, Sir John
Richardson, who had great weight at the Admiralty, and to
him he wrote the following letter before leaving Plymouth.

                  To Sir John Richardson

                                                    Oct. 31, 1850.

I regret very much that in consequence of our being ordered

to be paid off at Chatham, instead of Portsmouth, as we always

Ihoped and expected, shall be unable to submit to your inspection
Ithe zoological notes and drawings which have made during our

cruise. They are somewhat numerous (over 180 sheets of draw
Iings),and               not
Imadewith                care
              hope             aalntdogaetttheenrtiovnaluaesless,amsinmceastethreyof--haavned  been
           as great                                                                            with
a microscope, such as has rarely, if ever, made a voyage round the
world before. A further reason for indulging in this hope con

sists in the fact that they relate for the most part to animals

hitherto very little known, whether from their rarity or from their

perishable nature, and that they bear upon many curious physio

Ilogical points.  classify     and  enumerate  the observations  I have
made --may thus

1. Upon the organs of hearing and circulation in some of the

transparent Crustacea, and upon the structure of certain of the

lower forms of Crustacea.

     2. Upon some very remarkable new forms of Annelids, and

especially upon the much contested genus Sagitta, which I have

evidence to show is neither a Mollusc nor an Epizoon, but an

Annelid.

Iopregrafen3.ctliUynpodmenasnctyrhieboefdne--trhveuomupso--n saywnsdhteamtupaoopfnpecaetrhrsteaintsotrMumcoetlulurtseocaobfehFiatihrnoeluratroinaaimnryd

Atlanta, of which latter have a pretty complete account.

4. Upon two perfectly new (ordinally new) species of Ascidians.
5. Upon Pyrosoma and Salpa. The former has never been

described  (I  think)    since Savigny's time, and  he had only specimens
preserved      spirits.                             add and alter. Then
           in               I have a great deal to

Ias to Salpa, whose mode of generation has always been so great a

bone of contention, have a long series of observations and draw
Iings which have verified over and over again, and which, if correct,
Imust give rise to quite a new view of the matter.
                                                    may mention
Ias an interesting fact that in these animals so low in the scale

have found a placental circulation, rudimentary indeed, but neverthe

less a perfect model on a small scale of that which takes place in

the mammalia.

                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                       CHAP. V

      I6. have the materials for a monograph upon the Acalephae
Iand Hydrostatic Acalephae.
                                           have   examined very  carefully more
than forty genera of these                       many of them    very rare, and
                                   animals--
Isome quite new. But paid comparatively little attention to the

collection of new species, caring rather to come to some clear and

definite idea as to the structure of those which had indeed been

long known, but very little understood. Unfortunately for science,

but fortunately for me, this method appears to have been somewhat

novel with observers of these animals, and consequently everywhere

new and remarkable facts were to be had for the picking up.

     It is not to be supposed that one could occupy one's self with the

animals for so long without coming to some conclusion as to their

systematic place, however subsidiary to observation such considera

Itions must always be regarded, and it seems to me (although on such

matters can of course only speak with the greatest hesitation) that
just  a"sVethrme emso"re    minute and careful observations made    upon   the
old                       of Linnaeus necessitated the breaking   up of   that

class into several very            distinct classes,  so more    c"ar(ewfuhl ichinvseusctciegeadteiodn
rtheequi"reVsertmheesb"reaaskinag  up of Cuvier's     " Radiata

                                   sort of zoological lumber-room) into several
very distinct and well-defined new classes, of which the Acalephae,

Hydrostatic Acalephae, actinoid and hydroid polypes, will form one.
I I IBut fear that am trespassing beyond the limits of a letter.
Ihave only wished to state what have done in order that you may
                                                         Iof what I propose to
judge concerning          the propriety  or impropriety
                          that you will  not think that     am presuming too
do. And I trust
much upon your kindness if I take the liberty of thus asking your
Iadvice about my own affairs. In truth,
                                                         feel in a manner re

sponsible to you for the use of the appointment you procured for

me ; and furthermore, Capt. Stanley's unfortunate decease has left
the interests of the ship in general and my own in particular with

Iout a representative.                                           should have either

      Can you inform me, then, what chance

(1) of procuring a grant for the publication of my papers, or
(2) should that not be feasible, to obtain a nominal appointment
(say to the Fisguard at Woolwich, as in Dr. Hooker's case) for
such time as might be requisite for the publication of my papers

I Iand
       drawings    in some other way ?   Forbes when I reach London,
                    Professors Owen and
      I shall see                        to Sir John Herschel (who has,
and I have a letter of introduction

hear, a great penchant for the towing-net). Supposing could do

so, would it be of any use to procure recommendations from them

that my papers should be published ?

    [(Half-erased) To Sir F. Beaufort also I have a letter.] Would

it not be proper also to write to Sir W. Burnett acquainting him

with my views, and requesting his acquiescence and assistance ?

1850 CHARACTER OF HIS SCIENTIFIC WORK        59

Begging an answer at your earliest convenience, addressed
                                             I remain, your obedient
either to the Rattlesnake or to my brother,
servant,                                           T. H. Huxley.

41 North Bank.

      He received a most friendly reply from " Old John."
He was willing to do all in his power to help, but could
recommend Government aid better if he had seen the draw
ings. Meantime a certificate should be got from Forbes,
the best man in this particular branch of science, backed, if
possible, by Owen. He would speak to some officials him
self, and give Huxley introductions to others, and if he
could get up to town, would try to see the collections and

add his name to the certificate.

      Both Forbes and Owen were ready to help. The former
wrote a most encouraging letter, singling out the character

istics which gave a peculiar value to these papers :--

I have had very great pleasure in examining your drawings of

animals observed during the voyage of the Rattlesnake, and have

also fully availed myself of the opportunity of going over the

Icollections made during the course of the survey upon which you
have been engaged.      can say without exaggeration that more

important or more complete zoological researches have never been

conducted during any voyage of discovery in the southern hemi
sphere. The course you have taken of directing your attention

mainly to impreservable creatures, and to those orders of the animal

kingdom respecting which we have least information, and the care

and skill with which you have conducted elaborate dissections and

microscopic examinations of the curious creatures you were so

fortunate as to meet with, necessarily gives a peculiar and unique

character to your researches, since thereby they fill up gaps in our

knowledge of the animal kingdom. This is the more important, since

such researches have been almost always neglected during voyages of
discovery. The value of some of your notes was publicly acknow

ledged during your absence, when your memoir on the structure of

the Medusae, communicated to the Royal Society, was singled out

for publication in the Philosophical Transactions. It would be a very
great loss to science if the mass of new matter and fresh observation

which you have accumulated were not to be worked out and fully

published, as well as an injustice to the merits of the expedition in

which you have served.

The latter offered to write to the Admiralty on his behalf,

6o         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  CHAP. V

giving the weight of his name to the suggestion that the

work to be done would take at least twelve months, and that

therefore his appointment to the Fisguard should not be
                                " They might be
limited to any less period.                        ddoiswpnos--edo,"n
wrote Huxley to him, " to cut  anything I request

principle." Moreover, Owen, Forbes, Bell, and Sharpey, all

members of the Committee of Recommendation of the Royal

Society, had expressed themselves so favourably to his views

that in his application he was able to relieve the economic

scruples of the Admiralty by telling them that he had a

means of publishing his papers through the Royal Society.

    The result of his application, thus backed, was that he

obtained his appointment on November 29. It was for six
months, subject to extension if he were able to report satis

factory progress with his work.

     A long letter to his sister, now settled in Tennessee,

gives a good idea of his aims and hopes at this time.

                               41 North Bank, Regent's Park,

                                                  Nov. 21, 1850.

    My dearest Lizzie --We have been at home now nearly three
Iweeks, and have been a free man again twelve days. Her Majesty's

ships have been paid off on the 9th of this month. Properly
speaking, indeed, we have been at home longer, for we touched at

Plymouth and trod English ground and saw English green fields

on the 23rd of October, but we were allowed to remain only twenty-
four hours, and to my great disgust were ordered round to Chatham
to be paid off. The ill-luck which had made our voyage home

ward so long (we sailed from Sydney on the 2nd of May) pursued us
in the Channel, and we did not reach Chatham until the 2nd of
November ; and what do you think was one of the first things I
did when we reached Plymouth ? Wrote to Eliza K. asking news
Iof a certain

a word since
           naughty  sister  oafwmayin--e,    from  whom had never     heard
            we had   been                           perchance there  should
                                           and if

Ibe any letter, begging her to forward it immediately to Chatham.

And so, when at length we got there, found your kind long letter

had been in England some six or seven months ; but hearing of

the likelihood of our return, they had very judiciously not sent

it to me.
    IYour letter, my poor Lizzie, justifies many a heartache
                                                                     have
Ihad when thinking over your lot, knowing, as well do, what

emigrant life is in climates less trying than that in which you live.

I have seen a good deal of bush life in Australia, and it enables

1850 LETTER TO HIS SISTER                                                                                                 61

me  --fuflrlyomto   sympathise      with and enter                                            into  every particular you   tell
me                 the baking      and boiling and                                            pigs  squealing, down to    that

Iferocious landshark Mrs. Gunther, of whose class Australia will
furnish fine specimens.                  IHad been at home, too, could have

enlightened the good folks as to the means of carriage in the

colonies, and could have told them that the two or twenty thousand

miles over sea is the smallest part of the difficulty and expense of

                                                                                                    iIs,
                                                                                                              I

                                                                                                                                 is
getting anything to people living inland ; as it                                                            think have

done some good in the matter their meaning was good but their
                                                                                   ;

discretion small. But the obtuseness of English in general about

anything out of the immediate circle of their own experience

something wonderful.

         had heard here and there fractional accounts of your doingsis                                                    it

from Eliza K. and my mother-- not of the most cheery descriptionI
-- and therefore was right glad to get your letter, which, though
                       I

tells of sorrow and misfortune enough and to spare, yet shows me

that the brave woman's heart you always had, my dearest Lizzie,

    still yours, and that you have always had the warm love of those

immediately around you, and now, as the doctor's letter tells us,

ymimouupsot hsesaifvbfealceeotnhtehaetmwoboriteutelrdsnoeubsresc--e--ooffI a I It Ijoy and happiness, and this new joy
                                                                                   do not say the memory, knowing how

                                                                                   your great loss.* God knows, my dear

sister, could feel for you.                                                           was as   could see again shadow
    I                                                                                 I                     Ia
                                                                                          iIf                    a
of the great sorrow that fell upon us all years ago.                                                             I

    Nothing can bind me more closely to your children than am

already, but           ; if  the christening be not all over you must let me

be godfather and though                                                             fear am too much of heretic to
promise to bring him up
                                                                                   good son of the church -- yet should

ever the position which you prophesy, and of which have an

"Ahnung" (though don't tell that to anybody but Nettie), be
                                   II I
mine, he shall (if you will trust him to me) be cared for as few
so--ns aanrde.     As   things stand,                                      am talking half nonsense, but mean
                you    know of old,                                      for good and for evil, my tenacity ofI

it

purpose.           as  to    my own      affairs --                                        am not married.  Prudently, at
      Now,                                                                            I

any rate, but whether wisely or foolishly am not quite sure yet,                             a

Nettie and resolved to have nothing to do with matrimony for                                  I
                   I
the present. In truth, though our marriage was my great wish on
                                1
many accounts, yet feared to bring upon her the consequences

that might have occurred had anything happened to me within the

next few years. We had sad parting enough, and as usually
                                                                         Ia                                 is

                                                                                                                    I
the case with me, time, instead of alleviating, renders more dis

agreeable our separation.                                                            have     woman's element in me.

hate the incessant struggle and toil to cut one another's throat

among us men, and long to be able to meet with some one in

                                   The death of her little daughter Jessie.

62               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, v

I Iwhom can place implicit confidence, whose judgment                                     can

respect, and yet who will not laugh at my most foolish weaknesses,

I Iand in whose love can forget all care. All these conditions
have fulfilled in Nettie. With a strong natural intelligence, and

knowledge enough to understand and sympathise with my aims,

with firmness of a man, when necessary, she combines the gentle
I Iness of a very woman and the honest simplicity of a child, and
then   feswhe--loivnesthemerewalellm, eaasnwinegll  as     love her,   and you know     --losvhee
but                                                 of  the word,     perhaps, but two

Iand you. And now she is away, and you are away. The worst of

it is have no ambition, except as means to an end, and that end
Iis the possession of a sufficient income to marry upon.
Iyou I would not give                                                                   assure

Ithe world. A worker           two straws for            baell--thite   honours and titles  in
I
                               I must always                           is my nature-- but   if

   had ^400      a year        would never let my name                 appear to anything
   did or shall  ever do.                                              be a voice working
                                  It would be glorious to

in secret and free from all those personal motives that have

actuated the best. But, unfortunately, one is not a "vox et

praeterea nihil," but with a considerable corporality attached which

requires feeding, and so while my inner man is continually in

dulging in these anchorite reflections, the outer is sedulously elbow

ing and pushing as if he dreamed of nothing but gold medals and

I I Iprofessors' caps.

         am getting on very
                               well --better             fear than deserve.               One

of my papers was published in 1849 in the Philosophical Trans
I Iactions, another in the Zoological

be published in the Linnozan if
                                                        Transactions, and  some more      may
                                                                                          like.
                                                        like -- but think  I shall not
Then I have worked pretty hard, and brought home a considerable

amount of drawings and notes about new or rare animals, all

particularly nasty slimy things, and they will most likely be published

as a separate work by the Royal Society.

    Owens, Forbes, Bell, and Sharpey (the doctor will tell you of
what weight these names are) are all members of the committee
Iw" hviaclhuabdliesporseessearocfhetshe"
                               money, and are all                 strongly in  favour of  my
                                (cock-a-doodle-doo                ! !) being   published   by

the Society. From various circumstances have taken a better
Iposition than could have expected among these grandees, and I

find them all immensely civil and ready to help me on, tooth and

nail, particularly Prof. Forbes, who is a right good fellow, and has

taken  a great   "deFairlstof   trouble on           my  behalf.     Owen volunteered to
write  to the                  Lord " on            my   behalf,  and did so. Sharpey,
when I saw him, reminded me, as he always does, of my great

contest with Stocks 1 (do you remember throwing the shoe and
                               1
                                                                                                    ?),

                                                                                                    is
promised me all the assistance in his power. Prof. Bell, who

secretary to the Royal, and has great influence, promised to help

                               See p. 18.

           HIS AIMS AND PROSPECTS                                                       63

Ime in every way, and asked me to dine with him and meet a lot
of nobs.   take all these things quite as a matter of course, but
am all the while considerably astonished. The other day I dined

at the Geological  Club and met                    Lyell, Murchison, de  la B[eche]
Horner, and a lot  more, and last                                        a whole lot
                                                   evening I dined with

of literary and scientific people.

    Owen was, in my estimation, great, from the fact of his smoking

his cigar and singing his song like a brick.
    I I Itell you all these things to show you clearly how stand.
Iam under no one's patronage, nor do I ever mean to be.
                                                                                        have
Inever asked, and never will ask, any man for his help from mere
Imotives of friendship. If any man thinks that am capable of

forwarding the great cause in ever so small a way, let him just give

me a helping hand and I will thank him, but if not, he is doing

both himself and me harm in offering                                and                 should be
       I

                                                                         it,

                                                                       if
                                                                                    it
necessary for me to find public expression to my thoughts on any

matter, have clearly made up my mind to do so, without allowing

myself to be influenced by hope of gain or weight of authority.

     There are many nice people in this world for whose praise or

blame care not whistle.                   don't know and don't care whether
I                                                           | II
       I                                                            will leave my mark

                             it a
                                        is

                                   aI
shall ever be what called great man.

somewhere, and shall be clear and distinct T. H. H., his mark.

and free from the  abominable blur of                                                   is
which surrounds    everything in this                                                                   a|
                                                         cant, humbug,   --anthdatself-steoekisnagy,
                                                         present world

supposing that am not already unconsciously tainted myself,
           II

                            a
result of which have morbid dread.                       I          am perhaps overrating

myself. You must put me in mind of my better self, as you did in

your last letter, when you write.

     But must come to the close of my epistle, as have one to
       II                                                                I
                                                                               I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                      I
enclose from my mother. My next shall be longer, and hope

shall then be able to tell you what am doing. At any rate hope
                                                   is I
to be in England for twelve months.

youI foarmsoveloryngm--uocphenashcaomnfeedssioonf      myself for   not   having written to
                                                          good for  the  soul, they say, and
    I
    will honestly confess that was half puzzled, half piqued, and
                               I

altogether sulky at your not having answered my last letter con

taining my love story, of which                    I     wrote you an account before

anybody. You must not suppose my affection was bit the less
                                                                    I
                                                                                   a
                                                                                                        a
because was half angry. Nettie, who knows you well, could tell

you otherwise. Indeed, now that know all, consider myself
                               is

                                     I

                                             if
great brute, and will give you leave, you will but write soon, to
scold me as much as you like. All the family are well. My fatheris I
                    is
is  the only one who much altered, and that in mind and strength,

not in bodily health, which very good. My mother has lost her

front teeth, but otherwise just the same amusing, nervous, dis

tressingly active old lady she always was.

64                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chaf'. v

    Our cruisers visit New Orleans sometimes, and if ever I am on
Ithe West India station, who knows, may take a run up to see you
all. Kindest love to the children. Tell Florry that I could not
Iget her the bird with the long tail, but that some day will send

her some pictures of copper-coloured gentlemen with great big wigs

and no trousers, and tell her her old uncle loves her very much and

never forgets her nor anybody else.        Write soon. -- Ever your
      God bless you, dearest Lizzie.

brother,                                                          Tom.

      Thus within a month of landing in England, Huxley
had secured his footing in the scientific world. He was
freed for the time from the more irksome part of his pro

fession ; his service in the navy had become a stepping-
stone to the pursuits in which his heart really was. He had

long been half in despair over the work which he had sent
out like the dove from the ark, if haply it might find him
some standing ground in the world ; no news of it had
reached him till he was about to start on his homeward

voyage, but he returned to discover that at a single stroke it
had placed him in the front rank of naturalists.

                                    41 North Bank, Regent's Park,
                                                   Jan. 3, 1851.

    IMy progress (he writes),* must necessarily be slow and un
certain.     cannot see two steps forwards. Much depends upon

                                      Hitherto all has gone as well
I Imyself, much upon circumstances.
as I    could wish.                 have gained each object that  had set

before    myself -- that
        a
                                      is,

                            I
                                       I
                                    have my shore appointment, have
                                                         a It
found means of publishing what have done creditably, and
                                                              it is

                                                                   II
                                                                         it I
have continued to come into communication with some of the first

men in England in my department of science. But, as have

found to be the case in all things that are gained, from money to

friendship,if           not so much getting as keeping.           by no means

               it
                    is
difficult    you are decently introduced, have tolerably agreeable

manners, and some smattering of science, to take position among

these folks, but        it          mighty different affair to keep and turn
                            is

                                 a

to account. Not like the man who, at the Enchanted Castle, had

the courage to blow the horn but not to draw the sword, and was

consequently shot       forth from the mouth of the      cave by which he
entered with most                                        be ready to fight
                        ignominious haste, -- one must

         When not otherwise specified, the extracts in this chapter are from letters to1
his future wife.

                               EARL Y FRIENDS                            6S

immediately after one's arrival has been announced, or be blown
into oblivion.

    I have drawn the sword, but whether I am in truth to beat the

giants and deliver my princess from the enchanted castle is yet to

be seen.

      For several months he lived with his brother George and

his wife at North Bank, St. John's Wood (the house was
pulled down in 1896 for the Great Central Railway), but the
surroundings were too easy, and not conducive to hard work.

I Imust, fear, emigrate to some " two pair back," which shall
Ihave the feel and manner of a workshop, where
                                                                      can leave my
Ibooks about and dissect a marine nastiness if think fit, sallying

forth to meet the world when necessary, and giving it no more time
                               If it were not
tuhnaknindnleyceIsssahryo.uld  Igo at once.    for a  fear that   P.   would take it
                                               must   summon     up   moral courage

somehow (how difficult when it is to pain those we love !) and trust
to her good sense for the rest.

     And later :--

  ... I have been very busy looking about for the last two days,

Iand have been in fifty houses if have been in one. 1 want some

place with a decent address, cheap, and beyond all things, clean.
The dirty holes that some of these lodgings are ! such tawdry finery

and such servants, with their faces and hands not merely dirty, but
absolutely macadamised. And they all make this confounded great

Exhibition a plea for about doubling the rent.

     So in April 1 8 5 1 he removed to lodgings hard by, at 1

Hanover Place, Clarence Gate, Regent's Park (" which sounds
grand, but means nothing more than a sitting-room and

bedroom in a small house then to St. Anne's Gardens, and"),

after that to Upper York Place, while making second home
                                                                 aa
                                                                                           a
with his brother. His other great friends already in London

were the Fannings, who had left Australia                             few months

before his own return. In the scientific world he soon made

acquaintance with most of the leading men, and began

close friendship with Edward Forbes, with George Busk
(then surgeon to H.M.S. Dreadnought at Greenwich, after
wards President of the College of Surgeons) and his accom

plished wife, and later in the year with both Hooker and

Tyndall.     The Busks, indeed, showed him the greatest

kindness throughout this period of struggle, and the sym

VOL.      I                                                           F

66         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                CHAP. V

pathy and intellectual stimulus he received from their society

were of the utmost help. They were always ready to wel

come him at Greenwich, and he not only often ran down

there for a week-end, but would spend part of his vacations

with them at Lowestoft or Tenby, where naturalists could

find plenty of occupation.

    But from a worldly point of view, it was too soon clear

that science was sadly unprofitable.                  There seemed no

speedy prospect     of making enough  to marry                on.  As early
as March 1851
                    he writes :--

    The difficulties of obtaining a decent position in England in

anything like a reasonable time seem to me greater than ever they
were. To attempt to live by any scientific pursuit is a farce.

Nothing but what is absolutely practical will go down in England.

A man of science may earn great distinction, but not bread. He

will get invitations to all sorts of dinners and conversaziones, but
not enough income to pay his cab fare. A man of science in these
                                                              stmoreys--s owfapitot;taagned.
times is like an Esau who sells      his birthright   for  a
Again, if one turns to practice,     it is still the  old

... Ionly after years of working like a galley-slave and intriguing like a
courtier is there any chance of getting a decent livelihood.       am
not at all sure if
                    it would not be the most prudent thing to

stick by the Service : there at any rate is certainty in health and in

sickness.

    Nevertheless he was mightily encouraged in the work of

bringing out his Rattlesnake papers by a notable success in

a quarter where he scarcely dared to hope for it. The

Royal Society had for some time set itself to become a body

of working men of science ; to exclude for the future all
mere dilettanti, and to admit a limited number of men whose

work was such as to deserve recognition. Thanks to the

initiative of Forbes, he now found this recognition accorded
                                     of his " Medusa " paper.
to him     oFnebtrhuearyst:r--ength                                He
writes in

     The F.R.S. that you tell me you dream of being appended to

... Imy name is nearer than one might think, to my no small surprise.
      I had no idea that it was at all within my reach, until found

out the other day, talking with Mr. Bell, that my having a paper in
the Transactions was one of the best of qualifications.

    IMy friend Forbes, to whom I am so much indebted, has taken
the matter in hand for me, and am told I am sure of getting it

                     ELECTED F.R.S.                          67

Ithis year or the next.         do not at all expect it this year, as there
... Iare a great many candidates, far better men than I.
                                                             shall
Ithink myself lucky if get it next year. Don't say anything about
...the matter till I tell you.
                                    As the old proverb says, there is

many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip.

There were thirty-eight candidates ; of these the Council

would select fifteen, and submit their names for election at a

general meeting of the Society. He was not yet twenty-six

years of age, and    certainly the youngest         and      least known
of the competitors.    Others probably had         been
                                                             up before --

possibly many times before ; nevertheless, on this, his first

candidature, he was placed among the selected. The
formal election did not take place till June 5, but on a
chance visit to Forbes he heard the great news. The F.R.S.

was a formal attestation of the value of the work he had

already done ; it was a token of success in the present, an
augury of greater success in the future. No wonder the

news was exciting.

ITo-day (he writes on April 14) saw Forbes at the Museum of
IP"rIacatmicagl laGdeotloogyb, e    often drop in  on him.      "Well," he said,
           where                to   tell you you   are all  right for the Royal
            able
ISociety ; the selection was made on Friday night, and hear that
you are one of the selected. I have not seen the list, but my
Iauthority is so good that you may make yourself easy about it."

Iconfess to having felt a little proud, though I believe spoke and

looked as cool as a cucumber. There were thirty-eight candidates,
Iout of whom only fifteen could be selected, and fear that they
Ihave left behind much better men than I.
                                                   shall not feel certain
Iabout the matter until receive some official announcement. I
almost wish that until then I had heard nothing about it. Not
Iwithstanding all my cucumbery appearance,
                                                   will confess to you
I Ithat could not sit down and read to-day after the news.

wandered hither and thither restlessly half over London. . . .

I I IWhether have it or not, can say one thing, that have left my
Icase to stand on its own strength ; have not asked for a single

Ifvote, and there are not on my certificate half the names that there
might be.  it be mine, it is by no intrigue.

    Again, on May 4 :--

   I Iam twenty-six to-day . . . and it reminds me that have left

you now a whole year. It is perfectly frightful to think how the
time is slipping by, and yet seems to bring us no nearer.

68                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                        CHAP. V

    IWhat have done with my twenty-sixth year ? Six months were

spent at sea,    and therefore     may be   considered as so much                              lost  ; and
                 have had in      England.                                                      not   been
Isix months                                    That, I may say, has
Ithrown away altogether without fruit.
I Iand have written a good deal.                                            have read a good deal

                                                                     have made some valuable
Ifriends, and have found my work more highly estimated than had
Iventured to hope.
                      must tell you something, because it will please
you, even if you think me vain for doing so.

   I Iwas talking to Professor Owen yesterday, and said that
Iimagined had to thank him in great measure for the honour of
the F.R.S. "No," he said, "you have nothing to thank but the
Igoodness of your own work." For about ten minutes felt rather
Iproud of that speech, and shall keep it by me whenever
                                                                                                     feel
Iinclined to think myself a fool, and that have a most mistaken
notion of my own capacities. The only use of honours is as an
antidote to such fits of the "blue devils." Of one thing, however,

which is by no means so agreeable, my opportunities for seeing the

scientific world in England force upon me every day a stronger and
Istronger conviction. It is that there is no chance of living by
science.         have been loth to believe                           it,    but  it       so. There are
                                                                                      is

not more than four or five offices in London which a Zoologist or

Comparative Anatomist can hold and live by. Owen, who has a

European reputation, second only to that of Cuvier, gets as Hun

terian Professor £300 a year which less than the salary of many!is

aa  bank clerk. My friend Forbes, who                                is     highly distinguished and
                                                                         a

    very able man, gets the same from his office of Paleontologist to

tumhpeewn aG--redom--loegmniecnawlhwoShuohrsvaeevyeaboiblfietieeGnsr,eaahttadwBrotihrtkaeiynf.tourrnyNeeodawrst,hetlhmaebsoeinritooaurestlhyfeirstotm-irlaainnteyg

channels of money-making, must have made large fortunes. But

...nthoeblbeeraluiftey--oaf nNdatthuirse                             of Truth allured them into
                      and the pursuit                                 In literature man may write         aa
                        the result.
          I                                                                      ;a

                   A

                               is

                             II

                                     I

                                                                  a
for magazines and reviews, and so support himself but not so in

science.         could get anything write into any of the journals or

any of the Transactions, but know no means of thereby earning

five shillings.    man who chooses life of science chooses not

life of poverty, but, so far as can see, a life of nothing, and the art

of living  upon    ntohtehni,ng"  at all   has yet                   to   be discovered.  a     You will
naturally  think,                 Why     persevere                  in   so hopeless          course "
                                                                                                     ?

At present cannot     help        myself.   For my own                           credit,  for  the  sake  of
gratifying those who  have        hitherto                                                for  the  sake  of
           I                                helped me on                         -- nay,
                         I
truth and science itself, must work out fairly and fully complete what

    have begun. And when that               is  done, will courageously and
I                                                                        I

cheerfully turn my back upon all my old aspirations. The world                                            is

wide, and there       everywhere room for honesty of purpose and
                   is

                           I
earnest endeavour. Had failed in attaining my wishes from an

18s 1 POSITION IN THE WORLD OF SCIENCE                                         69

I Iloavyerwwiteheinninmg ysseelfl-fc--onfidsehnocuel,d
                                         -- had found that the obstacles after all

                                         have bitterly despised myself, and, worst
of all, I should have felt that you had just ground of complaint.
    ISo far as the acknowledgment of the value of what have done

I Iis concerned, have succeeded beyond my expectations, and if
Ihave failed on the other side of the question, cannot blame myself.
It is the world's fault and not mine.

A few months more, and he was able to report another

and still more        unexpected testimony to the value of his
                      encouragement to persevere in the difficult
work -- another

pursuit of a scientific life. He found himself treated as an

equal by men of established reputation ; and the first-fruits

of his work ranked on a level with the maturer efforts of

veterans in science. He was within an ace of receiving the

Royal     Mheedawlr,itweshi:c--h  was    awarded        him the following year.
Of this,

withNomvyemfeblelorws7,--18to5  1. -- I  have at        last tasted what it is to mingle
                                         my place       in that society for which nature
                                take

has fitted me, and whether the draught has been a poison which

Ihas heated my veins or true nectar from the gods, life-giving,
Iknow not, but I can no longer rest where I once could have rested.
If could find within myself that mere personal ambition, the

desire of fame, present or posthumous, had anything to do with
Ithis restlessness,
                                would root it out. But in those moments of
self-questioning, when one does not lie even to one self, I feel that I
                      not so --that the real
can say it   is       self-development -- in       pleasure,  the  true sphere, lies in
the feeling  of                                    the sense  of   power and of grow

Iing oneness with the great spirit of abstract truth.
Do you understand this?                  know you do; our old oneness          of

feeling will not desert us here. . . .

      To-day a most unexpected occurrence came to my knowledge.

I must tell you that the Queen places at the disposal of the Royal
Society once a year a valuable gold medal to be given to the author
of the best paper upon either a physical, chemical, or anatomical or
physiological subject. One of these branches of science is chosen

by the   --Rosyaay l   Society  for      each year, and therefore    for any   given
subject               anatomy   and      physiology ; it becomes a  triennial  prize,

and is given to the best memoir in the Transactions for three years.
I IIt happens that the Royal Medal, as it is called, is this year
given in Anatomy and Physiology.                        had no idea that had the

least chance of getting                  and made no effort to do so. But
          a
                                      a it,

                                  I
                                                                             I
heard this morning from member of the Council that the award

was made yesterday, and that                       was within an ace of getting it.

Newport, man of high standing in the scientific world, and myself

70              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                            CHAP. V

were the two between whom the choice rested, and eventually it

Iwas given to him, on account of his having a greater bulk of matter

in his papers, so evenly did the balance swing. Had only had the

Ileast idea that should be selected they should have had enough
Iand to spare from me. However, do not grudge Newport his

medal ; he is a good and a worthy competitor, old enough to be my

Ifather, and has long had a high reputation. Except for its practical

value as a means of getting a position care little enough for the
medal. What I do care for is the justification which the being
Imarked in this position gives to the course have taken. Obstinate
Iand self-willed as
                     am . . . there are times when grave doubts

overshadow my mind, and then such testimony as this restores my

I Iself-confidence.
     To let you know     t"heRofyualll  force of  what have been    saying,
must tell you that this                 Medal "   is what such men  as Owen

and Faraday are glad to get, and is indeed one of the highest

honours in England.
    To-day I had the great  SpiInlecwaesausrIemleafotinflEynmigneldeateninbdgtedhmefyohraosmldymfraaieprnrpideodinStiar

John Richardson (to whom
ment in the Rattlesnake).
third wife, and has taken a hand in joining in search of Franklin

(which was more dreadful like an old hero as he                     but not
      !

                           is
                                                      ?),

                                                              is
                                                                                                         a

                                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                                      a
feather of him  altered, and he as grey, as really kind, and as

seemingly abrupt and grim, as ever he was. Such fine old polar

bear

                 CHAPTER VI

                                       1851-1854

The course pursued by the Government in the matter of

Huxley's papers is curious and instructive. The Admiralty
minute of 1849 had promised either money assistance for
publishing or speedy promotion as an encouragement to

scientific research in the Navy, especially by the medical

officers. On leave to publish the scientific results of the

expedition being asked for, the Department forestalled any

request for monetary aid by an intimation that none would

be given. Strong representations, however, from the leading

scientific authorities induced them to grant the appointment

to the Fisguard for six months.

The sequel shows how the departmental representatives

of science did their best for science in Huxley's case, so far

as in their power lay :--

IJune 6, 1851. --The other day                 received an intimation that
Imy presence was required at Somerset House.
                                                                   rather expected

the mandate, as  six months' leave was up. Sir William was

very civil, and told me that the Commander of the Fisguard had

applied to the Admiralty to know what was to be done with me, as
                                       "Now,"           he, "go    to Forrest"
my leave     h"adwrietexpairelde.tter            said                           (his
secretary),                            to me,  stating   what you  want, and I  will

get it done for you." So               away I  went and applied for an indefinite

I Iamount of leave, on condition of reporting the progress of my work
                                               shall get
if                                                                 feel quite easy
                                    1
                                                 iIt,
every six months, and as suppose

on that head.

      In May 185 he applied to the Royal Society for
help from the Government Grant towards publishing the

bulk of his work as a whole, for much of its value would be

lost scattered fragmentarily among the Transactions of

72  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, vi

various learned societies. Personally, the members of the

committee were very willing to make the grant, but on

further consideration it appeared that the money was to be

applied for promoting research, not for assisting publication ;
and moreover, it was desirable not to establish a precedent

for saddling the funds at the disposal of the Society with all
the publications which it was the clear duty of the Govern
ment to undertake. On this ground the application was

refused, but at the same time it was resolved that the

Government be formally asked to give the necessary sub

vention towards bringing out these valuable papers.

     A similar resolution was passed at the Ipswich meeting
of the British Association in July 1 8 5 1 , and at a meeting of

its Council in March 1852 the President declared himself
ready to carry it into effect by asking the Treasury for the

needful £300. But at the July meeting he could only

report a non possumus answer for the current year (1852)
from the Government, and a resolution was passed recom

mending that application on the subject be renewed by the
British Association in the following year.

     Meanwhile, weary of official delay, Huxley had conceived
the idea of writing direct to the Duke of Northumberland,
then First Lord of the Admiralty, whom he knew to take an
interest in scientific research. At the same time he stirred
Lord Rosse, the President of the Royal Society, to repeat
his application to the Treasury. Although the Admiralty in
April 1852 again refused money help, and bade him apply
to the Royal Society for a portion of the Government Grant

(which the latter had already refused him), the Hydrographer
was directed to make inquiries as to the propriety of granting
him an extension of leave. To his question asking the
exact amount of time still required for finishing the work of
publication, Huxley returned what he described as a " savage

reply," that his experience of engravers led him to think
that the plates could be published in eight or nine months
from the receipt of a grant ; that he had reason to believe

this grant might soon be promised, but that the long
delay was solely due to the remissness of those whose

duty it was to represent his claims to the Government ; and

finally, that he must ask for a year's extension of leave.

1852-3          TREASURY AND ADMIRALTY                                  73

      For these expressions his conscience smote him when,
on June 1 2, at a soiree of the Royal Society, Lord Rosse
took him aside and informed him that he had seen Sir C.

Trevelyan, the Under Secretary to the Treasury, who said

there would be no difficulty in the matter if it were properly

laid before the Prime Minister, Lord Derby. To Lord

Derby therefore he went, and was told that Mr. Huxley

should go to the Treasury and arrange matters in person

with Trevelyan. At the same time the indignant tone of

his letter to the Hydrographer seemed to have done good ;

he was invited to explain matters in person, and was granted

the leave he asked for.

      Everything now seemed to point to a speedy solution of
his difficulties. The promise of a grant, of course, did

nothing immediate, but assured him a good position, and
settled all the scruples of the Admiralty with regard to time.
" You have no notion," he writes, " of the trouble the grant

has cost me. It died a natural death till I wrote to the

Duke in March, and brought it to life again. The more

opposition there
I                 the more determined                 am to carry
                    I

                                      is,
                                              a
                                                                 a

                                                               :I
                                                                    I

                                                                                                 is it it
through." But he was doomed to a worse disappointment

than before. Trevelyan received him very civilly, but had

heard nothing on the matter from Lord Derby, and accord

ingly sent him in charge of his private secretary to see Lord

Derby's secretary. The latter had seen no papers relating

to any such matter, and supposed Lord Derby had not
brought them from St. James' Square, " but promised to
write to me as soon as anything was learnt.
                                                             look upon

as adjourned sine die." Parliament breaking up immediately

after gave the officials good excuse for doing nothing more.

     When his    year's    leave expired   in June      1853,  he  wrote
     following  letter to   Sir William   Burnett
the                                                   --

     As the period of my leave of absence from H.M.S. Fisguard

about to expire, have the honour to report that the duty on which

    have  been engaged has    been  carried  out, as    far   as my means
permit,   by the publication  of "  Memoir    upon    the    Homologies of

the Cephalous Mollusca," with four plates, which appeared in the

Philosophical Transactions for 1852 (published 1853), being the
fourth memoir resulting from the observations made during the
voyage of H.M.S. Rattlesnake which has appeared in these

Transactions.

74  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  CHAP. VI

    I have the pleasure of being able to add that the President and

Council of the Royal Society have considered these memoirs worthy
of being rewarded by the Royal Medal in Physiology for 1852, which

Ithey did me the honour to confer in the November of that year.

         regret that no definite answer of any kind having as yet been
given to the strong representations which were made by the

biPneree1ns8id5ee2anrtntsoesbHtloy.tMhr.eopGfeoathvteeedrnR--moyeiannlto--SrodcreeireptrtyeoseaonnbtdtaatiioonfnsathgerwaBnhrtiicthifsohrhatAvhesesorpecuicrapetoniostenly
I Iof publishing the remainder of these researches in a separate form,

   have been unable to proceed any further, and beg to request a
renewal of my leave of absence from H.M.S. Fisguard, so that if

IH.M. Government think fit to give the grant applied for, it may be

in my power to make use of it ; or that, should it be denied, may
be enabled to find some other means of preventing the total loss of
the labour of some years.

      Hereupon he was allowed six months longer, but with

the intimation that no further leave would be granted. A

final application from the scientific authorities resulted in

fresh inquiries as to the length of time still required, and the

deadlock between the two departments of State being

unchanged, he replied to the same effect as before, but to no

purpose. His formal application for leave in January 1854

was met by orders to join the Illustrious at Portsmouth.

He appealed to the Admiralty that this appointment might

be cancelled, giving a brief summary of the facts, and

pointing out that it was the inaction of the Treasury which

had absolutely prevented him from completing his work.

    I would therefore respectfully submit that, under these circum

stances, my request to be permitted to remain on half-pay until the

Icompletion of the publication of the results of some years' toil is
not wholly unreasonable.  It is the only reward for which would

ask their Lordships, and indeed, considering the distinct pledge

Igiven in the minute to which have referred, to grant it would

seem as nearly to concern their Lordships' honour as my advantage.

     The counter to this bold stroke was crushing, if not
convincing. He was ordered to join his ship immediately
under pain of being struck off the Navy list. He was of

course prepared for this ultimatum, and whether he could

manage to pursue science in England or might be compelled
to set up as a doctor in Sydney, he considered that he would

be better off than as an assistant surgeon in the Navy.

1854 SCIENTIFIC RESULTS OF THE VOYAGE                              75

Accordingly he stood firm, and the threat was carried into

effect in March 1854. An unexpected consequence followed.
As long as he was in the navy, with direct claims upon a

Government department for assistance in publishing his

work, the Royal Society had not felt justified in allotting

him any part of the Government Grant. But now that he

had left the service, this objection was removed, and in June
1854 the sum of £300 was assigned for this purpose, while
the remainder of the expense was borne by the Ray Society,

which undertook the publication under the title of Oceanic

Hydrozoa. Thus he was able to record with some satisfac

tion how he at last has got the grant, though indirectly,

from the Government, and considers it something of a

triumph for the principle of the family motto, tenax propositi.

While these fruitless negotiations with the Admiralty

were in progress, he had done a good deal, both in

publishing what he could of his Rattlesnake work, and in

trying to secure some scientific appointment which would

enable him to carry out his two chief objects : the one his

--marriage, the other the unhampered pursuit of science. In

addition to the papers sent home from the cruise one on

the Medusae, published in the Philosophical Transactions of
the Royal Society for 1 849, and one on the Animal of

Trigonia, published in the       Proceedings of the Zoological
                                                     the Admiralty
Society for the same year -- he  had reported to
                                 of seven memoirs     :--
in June 1851 the publication

1. On the Auditory Organs of the Crustacea. Published in
the Annals of Natural History.
      2. On the Anatomy of the genus Tethea.         Published in the

Annals of Natural History.            of the         Echinoderms.  To
      3. Report upon the Development

appear in the Annals for July.

      4. On the Anatomy and Physiology of the Salpae, with four
plates. Read at the Royal Society, and to be published in the

next part of the Philosophical Transactions.

      5. On two Genera of Ascidians, Doliolum and Appendicularia,
with one plate. Read at the Royal Society, and to be published

in the next part of the Philosophical Transactions.

6. On some peculiarities in the Circulation of the Mollusca.

Sent to M. Milne-Edwards, at his request, to be published in the

Annales des Sciences.

76  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y  CHAP. VI

       7. On the Generative Organs of the Physophoridae and
Diphydae. Sent to Prof. Miiller of Berlin for publication in his
Archiv.

     By the end of the year he had four more to report :--

 1. On the Hydrostatic Acalephae ; 2. On the genus Sagitta,

both published in the Report of the British Association for
1 851; 3. On Lacinularia Socialis, a contribution to the
anatomy and physiology of the Rotifera, in the Transactions
of the Microscopical Society ; 4. On Thalassicolla, a new
zoophyte, in the Annals of Natural History. Next year he

read before the British Association a paper entitled " Re
searches into the Structure of the Ascidians," and a very
important one on the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca,
afterwards published in the Philosophical Transactions. In
addition he had prepared a great part of his longer work for
publication ; out of twenty-four or twenty-five plates, nine

teen were ready for the engraver when he wrote his appeal

to the Duke of Northumberland. In this same year, 1852,

he was also awarded the Royal Medal in Physiology for the
value of his contributions to the Philosophical Transactions.

      In 1853, besides seeing some of these papers through the
press, he published one on the existence of Cellulose in the
Tunic of Ascidians, read before the Microscopical Society,
and two papers on the Structure of the Teeth ; the latter,
of course, like a paper of the previous year on Echinococcus,

being distinct from the Rattlesnake work. The greater work
on Oceanic Hydrozoa, over which the battle of the grant in

aid had been waged so long, did not see the light until 1858,

when his interest had been diverted from these subjects, and

to return to them was more a burden than a pleasure.
      In the second place, the years 1851-53, so full of

profitless successes in pure science, and delusive hopes held
out by the Government, were marked by an equally un
successful series of attempts to obtain a professorship.

If a chair of Natural History had been established, as he

hoped, in the projected university at Sydney, he would
gladly have stood for it. Sydney was a second home to
him ; he would have been backed by the great influence of

Macleay ; and in his eyes a naturalist could not desire a

finer field for his labours than the waters of Port Jackson.

                       SYDNEY AND TORONTO                                  77

But this was not to be, and the first chair he tried for was

the newly-instituted chair of Zoology at the University of
Toronto. The vacancy was advertised in the summer of
185 I ; the pay of full £300 a year was enough to marry
on ; his friends reassured him as to his capacity to fill the
post, which, moreover, did not debar him from the hope of

returning some day to fill a similar post in England.

                       1 Edward  Street, St.    John's     Wood  Terrace,
                                       July 29
                                                [1 85 1].
My dear Henfrey -- I have been detained in town, or I hope

we should long since have had our projected excursion.

What do you think of my looking out for a Professorship of

Natural History at Toronto? Pay ^350, with chances of extra
             I think
fseuems. --            that out  there one might live comfortably upon  that
             possibly  even do   the domestic and cultivate the Loves   and

Graces as well as the Muses.

    Seriously, however, I should like to know what you think of it.

The choice of getting anything over here without devoting one's self

78                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, v1

wholly to Mammon, seems to me very small. At least it involves

years of waiting.

       Toronto is not very much out of the way, and the pay is decent

Iand would enable me to devote myself wholly to my favourite pur

suits. Were it in England, could wish nothing better ; and, as

       iIs,

                           1

                       it

                                      ;

                       I
                           I
                                 I
                                          I
it think would answer my purpose very well for some years

at any rate.                                 shall have  a  very good chance

    If they go fairly to work think

of being elected but am told that these matters are often deter

mined by petty intrigues.

       Francis and looked for you everywhere at the Botanic

Gardens, and finding        you were  too wise   "toBiecro."me,  came      here,
grieving your absence,    and had an  aesthetic

         He obtained  a   remarkably strong set of testimonials

from all the leading anatomists and physiologists in the

kingdom, as well as one from Milne-Edwards in Paris.

       I  have put together (he writes) twelve or fourteen testimonials

from the first men.   II  will have no other.

      His newly-obtained F.R.S. was a recommendation in

itself. So that he writes --
                           :

                                                      is

                                                               I

                                                                                                is
       There are, learn, several other candidates, but no one fear
                  I

at all, they only have fair play. There          no one of the others
          if

who can command anything like the scientific influence which

being exercised for me, whatever private influence they may have.

       What makes all the big-wigs so marvellously zealous on my

behalf know not.          have sought none of them and flattered none
         I

of them, that can say with a good conscience, and think you
                  aI       !)I I
know me well enough to believe it.  I

                                                          :
                                                                        a

                                                        I
                                             feel very grateful to them    ;

and      if       ever happens that am able to help young man on

              it

(when am big-wig myself    shall remember it.
         I

         And again, September 23, 1851 --

      When have once sent away my testimonials and done all thatI
   to be done, shall banish the subject from my mind and make
ismyself quite easy as to results. For the present confess to beingI

somewhat anxious.
                                                         aI
         Nevertheless, after many postponements,             near relative

of an influential Canadian politician was at length appointed

late in 1853. By an amusing coincidence, Huxley's newly-

made friend, Tyndall, was likewise a candidate for a chair

a           Dr. William Francis, one of the editors of the Philosophical Magazine, and
      1member of the publishing firm of Taylor and Francis.

iSsi DISAPPOINTMENTS ABROAD AND AT HOME 79

at Toronto, and likewise rejected. Two letters, concerning
Tyndall's election to the Royal Society, contain references
both to Toronto and to Sydney.

                        4 Upper York Place, St. John's Wood,

                                                  Dec. 4 [1851].

     My dear    ISir -- I was greatly rejoiced     to find I could be of

service to you  in any way, and only regret,       for your sake, that my
name is not a more weighty one. Your election, I should think,
can be a matter of no doubt.
    I IAs to Toronto, confess am not very anxious about it. Sydney
I Iwould have been far more to my taste, and confess envy you
Iwhat, as hear, is the very good chance you have of going there.
It used to be our headquarters in the Rattlesnake and my home
for three months in the year. Should you go, I should be very
happy, if you like, to give you letters to some of my friends.
IGreatly as wish we had been destined to do our work together,
I cannot but
               offer   the most hearty  wishes  for your success in Sydney.
-- Ever yours    very   faithfully,              Thomas H. Huxley.

John Tyndall, Esq.                      41 North Bank, Regent's Park,

                                                          May 7, 1852.

My dear Tyndall -- Allow me to be one of the first to have
Ithe pleasure of congratulating you on your new honours.
                                                                  had

the satisfaction last night to hear your name read out as one of the

selected of the Council of the Royal Society for election to the

Fellowship this year, and you are therefore as good as elected.
    I always made sure             success, but I
that it is now a fait   of your    -- I am, my     am not the less pleased
                                                   dear Tyndall, faithfully
                        accompli.                  T. H. Huxley.

yours,

IP.S. -- have heard nothing of Toronto, and I begin to think

that the whole affair, University and all, is a myth.

      His hopes of the Colonies failing, he tried each of the
divisions of the United Kingdom in turn, with uniform ill-
success ; in 1852-53 at Aberdeen and at Cork; in 1853
at King's College, London. He had great hopes of Aber

deen at first ; the appointment lay with the Home Secretary,

a personal friend of Sir J. Clark, who was interested in
Huxley though not personally acquainted with him. But

no sooner had he written to urge the latter's claims than a
change of ministry took place, and other influences com

manded the field. It was cold comfort that Clark told him

80               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              chap, vi

only to wait -- something must turn up. There was still a

great probability of the Toronto chair falling to a Cork
professor ; so with this in view, he gave up a trip to
Chamounix with his brother, and attended the meeting of
the British Association at Belfast in August 1852, in order
to make himself known to the Irish men of science, for, as

his friends told him, personal influence went for so much,
and while most men's reputations were better than them
selves, he might flatter himself that he was better than his
reputation. But this, too, came to nothing, and the King's

College appointment also went to the candidate who was

backed by the most powerful influence.
    A fatality seemed to dog
writes --at the end of 1 8 5 1 :     his  efforts ;      nevertheless  he

      Among my   scientific friends  the  --monition  I  get  on  all  sides is
that of Dante's  great ancestor to   him

                 A te sequi la tua Stella.

If this were from personal friends only, I should disregard it ; but

it comes from men to whose approbation it would be foolish affecta

tion to deny the highest value. I find myself treated on a footing

of equality (" my proud self," as you may suppose, would not put up
with any other) by men whose names and works have been long

Ibefore the world. My opinions are treated with a respect altogether

unaccountable to me, and what have done is quoted as having

Ifull authority. Without canvassing a soul or making use of any
influence,  have been elected into the Royal Society at a time

when that election is more difficult than it has ever been in the

history of the Society. Without my knowledge I was within an ace
of getting the Royal Society medal this year, and if I go on I shall

very probably get it next time.

      In 1852 he was not only to receive this coveted honour,*
but also to be elected upon the Royal Society Council. In
January 1852, when standing for Toronto, he describes how
Col. Sabine, then Secretary of the Royal Society, dissuaded
him from the project, saying that a brilliant prospect lay
before him if he would only wait.

      " Make up your mind to get something fairly within your reach,
and you will have us all with you." Prof. Owen again offers to do
anything in his power for me ; Prof. Forbes will move heaven and

                                                     1 See pp. 103 sqq.

1852 CONTEMPLATED ABANDONMENT OF SCIENCE 81

earth for me if he can ; Gray, Bell, and all the leading men are, I

know, similarly inclined. Fate says wait, and you shall reach the
goal which from a child you have set before yourself. On the other

hand, a small voice like conscience speaks of one who is wasting
youth and life away for your sake.

      Other friends, who, while recognising his general capa
cities, were not scientific, and had no direct appreciation of

his superlative powers in science, thought he was following a

course which would never allow him to marry, and urged
him to give up his unequal battle with fate, and emigrate to
Australia. Of this he writes on August
Heathorn :--                              5, 1852, to Miss

I    I must make   up my mind to it if nothing turns up.                                                             However,
                                                                                                                    with great
   look upon such  a life as would await me in Australia
misgiving. A life spent in a routine employment, with no excite

ment and no occupation for the higher powers of the intellect, with

its great aspirations stifled and all the great problems of existence

set hopelessly in the background, offers to me a prospect that would
Ibe utterly intolerable but for your love. . . . Sometimes
                                                                                                                    am half

Imad with the notion of bringing all my powers in a surer struggle

for a livelihood. Sometimes am equally wild at thinking of the

long weary while that has passed since we met. There are times

I Iwhen I cannot bear to think of leaving my present pursuits, when

  feel should be guilty of a piece of cowardly desertion from my

...duty in doing and there come intervals when would give truth
         is it,
                   is

                     I
                                                 II

                                                                                 is

                                                           ;I
and science and all hopes to be folded in your arms.                                                                   know

which course right, but never know which may follow help

me . . . for there only one course in which there either hope

or peace for me.

   These repeated disappointments deepened the fits of

depression which constantly assailed him. He was torn by

two opposing thoughts. Was just, was right, to demand
         a

                                            it
                                                              it

                                                                                                                 ?
so great sacrifice from the woman who had entrusted her

future to the uncertain chances of his fortunes                                                                     Could he

ask her to go on offering up the best years of her life to
aspirations of his which were possibly chimerical, or perhaps

merely selfishness in disguise, which ought to yield to more

imperative duties  Why not clip the wings of Pegasus,
         I

                                   ?

                                            a

                                                                                                 ?
                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                                                                   ;
and descend to the sober, everyday jog-trot after plain

bread and cheese like other plain people  Time after time

he almost made up his mind to throw science to the winds

to emigrate and establish practice in Sydney to try even

   VOL.                                                                                                             G

82   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, vi

squatting or storekeeping. And yet he knew only too well

that with his temperament no life would bring him the

remotest approach to lasting happiness and satisfaction

except one that gave scope to his intellectual passion. To

yield to the immediate pressure of circumstances was per

haps ignoble, was even more probably a surer road to the
loss of happiness for himself and for his wife than the
repeated and painful sacrifices of the present. With all this,
however, and the more when assured of her entire confidence
in his judgment, he could not but feel a sense of remorse
that she willingly accepted the sacrifice, and feared that she

might have done so rather to gratify his wishes than because
reason approved it as the right course to follow.

      Here is another typical extract from his correspondence.
Hearing that Toronto is likely to go to a relative of a

Canadian minister, he writes, January 2, 1852 :--

   I think of all my dreams and aspirations, and of the path which

I know lies before me if I can only bide my time, and it seems a

sin and a shameful thing to allow my resolve to be turned ; and

then comes the mocking suspicion, is this fine abstract duty of

yours anything but a subtlety of your own selfishness ? Have you

not other more imperative duties ?
     IYou may fancy whether my life is a very happy one thus spent
without even the satisfaction of the sense of right-doing.      must

come to some resolution about and that shortly.  was talking
                                  a              I
seriously with Fanning the other night about the possibility of findI
                                   I I it,
                                         I
ing some employment of profitable kind in Australia, store

Ifkeeping, squatting, or the like.  As told him, any change in my
                                     am to change at all, the change
mode of life must be total.

must be total and complete.         will not attempt my own profession.

III  should only be led astray to think and to work as of old, and

   sigh continually for my old dear and intoxicating pursuits.  wish

     understood Brewing, and would make proposition to come
                      I
                                       Ia
   and help your father. You may smile, but am as serious as ever

     was in my life.

         The distance between them made doubly difficult toit
   keep in touch with one another, when the post took
   from four and a half to five or even six months to
   reach England from Australia. The answer to a letter
   would come when the matter in question was long done
   with. The assurance that he was doing right at one

                   DESPAIR                              83

moment seemed inadequate when circumstances had altered

and hope sunk lower. It was all too easy to suspect that

she did not understand his aims, his thirst for action, nor

the fact that he was no longer free to do as he liked,

whether to stay in the navy, to go into practice, or follow

his own pursuits and pleasure. Yet it made him despair

to be so hedged in by circumstances. With all his efforts,

he seemed as though he had done nothing but earn the

reputation of being a very promising young man. How
much easier to continue the struggle if he could but have

seen her face to face, and read her thoughts as to whether

he were right or wrong in the course he was pursuing. He

appeals to her faith that he is choosing the nobler path in

pursuing knowledge, than in turning aside to the temptation
of throwing it up for the sake of their speedier union. Still

she was right in claiming a share in his work ; but for her

his life would have been wasted.

The clouds gathered very thickly about him when in

April   1852    his mother died,  while his   father was hopelessly
ill. "  Belief   and happiness,"  he writes,  " seem to be beyond

the reach of thinking men in these days, but courage and

silence are left." Again the clouds lifted, for in October he
received Miss Heathorn's " noble and self-sacrificing letter,

which has given me more comfort than anything for a long

while," the keynote of which was that a man should pursue

those things for which he is most fitted, let them be what they

will. He now felt free to tell the vicissitudes of thought and

will he had passed through this twelvemonth, and how the
                                          him. " The
idea of  giving    up all had affected                  spectre of a
         life has   passed before me    -- a vision of  that servant
wasted

who hid his talent in a napkin and buried it."

     Early in 1853 he writes how much he was cheered by his
sister's advice and encouragement to persist in the struggle ;
but the darkest moment was still to come. His hopes

from his candidature crumbled away one after the other ;

his leave from the Admiralty was coming to an end, and

there was small hope of renewing it ; the grant from Govern

ment remained as unattainable as ever ; the long struggle had
taught him the full extent of his powers only, it seemed,

to end by denying him all opportunity for their use.

84                               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        CHAP. VI

     And so the card house I have been so laboriously building up

these two years with all manner of hard struggling will be tumbled

... Idown again, and my small light will be ignominiously snuffed out
like that of better men.                              can submit if the fates are too

strong. The world is no better than an arena of gladiators, and I, a

Istray savage, have been turned into it to fight my way with my rude

club among the steel-clad fighters. Well, have won my way into

the front rank, and ought to be thankful and deem it only the

natural order of things if I can get no further.

     And again in a letter of July 6, 1853 :--

     I know that these three years have inconceivably altered me --

that from being an idle man, only too happy to flow into the
Ihumours of the moment,
                                                have become almost unable to exist
Iwithout active intellectual excitement.                 know that in this I find
Ipeace and rest such as can attain in no other way. From being

a mere untried fledgling, doubtful whether the wish              to fly                  proceeded
                                                                 have                    now some
from mere presumption or from budding wings, I

Iconfidence in well-tried pinions, which have given me rank among
the  strongest and               foremost.  --      have always   felt how difficult it            was
for  you to realise               all this      how strange      it must be to you                 that

though your image remained as bright as ever, new interests and

purposes had ranged themselves around                            and though they could
                                                         it,
claim no pre-eminence,           thyiest--demanmdeand's         ittheir share of     my          thoughts.
   make no apology for           a                         nature and               the          necessary
I                                     it,                             ;
influence of circumstances which will so haveII
                                             it                      it
                              a                   is
                                                                                                a
                                                                 and depend, how

ever painful our present separation may be, the spectacle of man

who had given up the cherished purpose of his life, the Esau who had

sold his birthright for mess of pottage and with his self-respect,

would before long years were over our heads be infinitely more

painful.     Depend upon                    the   trust  which   --yohuasplancoetd   in my hands
when                                         for  both    of us                     been abused.
          left you -- to choose

Hemmed in by all sorts of difficulties, my choice was narrow one,
                                                                 a
                                                                            is

                                                                                 a
                                                                                        a

                                                                                    I

                                                                                                  is
and was guided more by circumstances than my own free will.

Nevertheless the path has shown itself to be fair one, neither more

difficult nor less so than most paths in life in which man of

energy may hope to do much he believes in himself, and                                                at
                                 is
peace within.                    taken.a                 will not leave London -- will
      My course in life
                                        if

                                          I if
make myself name and position as well as an income by some

kind of pursuit connected with science, which                                       the thing for

which nature has fitted me she has ever fitted any one for any

thing. Bethink yourself whether you can cast aside all repining

and all doubt, and devote yourself in patience and trust to helping

me along my path as no one else could.                           know what ask, and
                                                         I
                                                                          I

                        HAPPIER PROSPECTS

the sacrifice I demand, and if this were the time to use false
Imodesty, I should say how little have to offer in return. . . .

    I Iam full of faults, but am real and true, and the whole

...devotion of an earnest soul cannot be overprized.

cahipldrreepnaraiIgttinooinsraanfsot rifofathllliefeth'sraetareloalldlifpeluifrepoofasteou--Hroallmsovwiefo--tohdeassehiflaadswt emmeworeenrltyehsbtehheeannd
Imerely been my old doubts over again, whether had rightly or

wrongly interpreted the manner and the words that had given me

hope. . . .

     We will begin the new love of woman and man, no longer that of
boy and girl, conscious that we have aims and purposes as well
as affections, and that if love is sweet life is dreadfully stern and

earnest.

     As time went on and no permanency offered -- although
a good deal of writing fell in his way-- the strain told
heavily upon him. In the autumn he was quite out of sorts,

body and mind, more at war with himself than he ever

was in his life before. All this, he writes, had darkened his

thoughts, had made him once more imagine a hopeless dis
crepancy between the two of them in their ways of thinking

and objects in life. It was not till November 1853 that this
depression was banished by the trust and confidence of her
last letter. " I wish to Heaven," he writes, " it had reached
me six months ago. It would have saved me a world of
pain and error." But with this, the worst period of mental

suffering was over, and every haunting doubt was finally
exorcised. His career was made possible by the steady
faith which neither separation nor any misgiving nor its own
troubles could shake. And from this point all things began
to brighten. His health had been restored by a trip to the
Pyrenees with his brother George in September. He had
got work that enabled him to regard the Admiralty and its
menaces with complete equanimity ; a Manual of Compara
tive Anatomy, for Churchill the publisher, regular work on the

Westminster} and another book in prospect, " so that if I quit

      1 This regular work was the article on Contemporary Science, which in

October 1854 he got Tyndall to share with him. For, he writes, "To give

some account of the books in one's own department is no particular trouble,

and comes with me under the head of being paid for what I must, in any case,
Ido-- but I neither will, nor can, go on writing about books in other departments,
of which I am not competent to form a judgment even if had the time to give

to them."

86   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, vi

the Service to-morrow, these will give me more than my pay

has been." And on December 7 he writes how he has been
restored and revived by reading over her last two letters, and
confesses, " I have been unjust to the depth and strength of

your devotion, but will never do so again." Then he tells

all  heforhahdisgohnoelidtahyro--ughhowbefhoere   leaving England   in Septem
ber                                              had resolved to   abandon all

his special pursuits and take up Chemistry, for practical

purposes, when first one publisher and then another asked

him to write for them, and hopes were held out to him of

being appointed to deliver the Fullerian lectures at the Royal

Institution for the next three years ; while, most important of

all, Edward Forbes was likely before long, to leave his post
at the Museum of Practical Geology, and he had already

been spoken to by the authorities about filling it. This

was worth some £200 a year, while he calculated to make
about £2 50 by his pen alone. " Therefore it would be
absurd to go hunting for chemical birds in the bush when

I have such in the hand."

CHAPTER VII

1851-1853

Several letters dating from 1 8 5 1 to 1853 help to fill up
the outlines of Huxley's life during those three years of
struggle. There is a description of the British Association

meeting at Ipswich in 1851,* with the traditional touch of
gaiety to enliven the gravity of its proceedings, and the un
conventional jollity of the Red Lion Club (a dining-club of
members of the Association), whose palmy days were those
under the inspiration of the genial and gifted Forbes. This

was the meeting at which Huxley first began his alliance
with Tyndall, with whom he travelled down from town,
although he does not mention his name in this letter. With
Hooker he had already made acquaintance ; and from this

time forwards the three were closely bound together by
personal regard as well as by similarity of aims and interests.

      Then follow his sketch of the English scientific world as
he found it in 1 8 5 1 , given in his letter to W. Macleay ;
several letters to his sister ; the description of his first

lecture at the Royal Institution, which, though successful on

the whole, was very different in manner and delivery from the

clear and even flow of his later style, with the voice not loud
but distinct, the utterance never hurried beyond the point of
immediate comprehension, but carrying the attention of the
audience with eager to the end. Two letters of warning
and remonstrance against the habits of lecturing in a collo-
1

                      it,

                                         6,

                                                               if
                                                                                    I
*' Forbes advises me to go down to the meeting of the British Association
this year and make myself notorious somehow or other. Thank Heaven
                                                                                       have

impudence enough to lecture the savans of Europe necessary. Can you imagine

me holding forth?" (June 1851.)

             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, v11

quial tone,  ntseouctithantboicleaaltolaterargmeksn,oatutdooigefenstcthueed--ren--tosfofgruapnthoneuirnreigndghrisoouunwt donrdehswis,
table, but

especially

and unfamiliar  matter at breakneck    speed,   were addressed
                 a " working man "             Monday evening
to him--one by                       of his

audience at Jermyn Street in 1855, the other, undated, by

Mr. Jodrell, a frequenter of the Royal Institution, and after
wards founder of the Jodrell Lectureships at University
College, London, and other benefactions to science, and

these he kept by him as a perpetual reminder, labelled

"Good Advice." How much can be done by the frank

acceptance of criticism and by careful practice is shown

by the difference between the feelings of the later audiences

who flocked to his lectures, and those of the members

of an Institute in St. John's Wood, who, as he often        used
to tell, after hearing him in his early days, petitioned    " not

to have that young man again."

    July 12, 1 85 1. -- The interval between my letters has been a

Ilittle longer than usual, as have been very busy attending the
Imeeting of the British Association at Ipswich. The last time
Iattended one was at Southampton five years ago, when went

merely as a spectator, and looked at the people who read papers

as if they were somebodies.* This time I have been behind the

Iscenes myself and have played out my little part on the boards.

  know all about the scenery and decorations, and no longer think

Ithe manager a wizard.           went down from any especial

     Any one who conceives that                             My

interest in the progress of science makes a great mistake.

journey was altogether a matter of policy, partly for the purpose of

doing a little necessary trumpeting, and partly to get the assistance

of the Association in influencing the Government.

On the journey down, my opposite in the railway carriage

Iturned out to be Sir James Ross, the Antarctic discoverer. We
had some  very pleasant talk together.     knew    all about him, as
Dayman f  had sailed under his command  ;  oddly   enough we after

wards went to lodge at the same house, but as we were attend

ing our respective sections all day we did not see much of one

another.

When we arrived at Ipswich there was a good deal of trouble

about getting lodgings. My companions located themselves about

                      1 See Chap. II., adfin.

             One of the lieutenants of the Rattlesnake.

18s 1 BRITISH ASSOCIA TION A T IPSWICH                                89

Ia mile out  of the   town,  but    that was  too far for my " indolent
                     and at   last   found a  room in the town a little
habits ";    sought
bigger than my cabin on board ship for which I had the satisfaction
of paying 30s. a week.
     You know what the British Association is.          It is a meeting of

the savans of   England    --anthdisthyeearCoonf ttihneenAt,struonndoemretrh-Reoyparle, s--idefnocrythoef
some big-wig    or other,

purpose of exchanging information. To this end they arrange

themselves into different sections, each with its own president and
committee, and indicated by letters. For instance, Section A is

for Mathematics and Physics ; Section B for Chemistry, etc. ; my

own section, that of Natural History, was D, under the presidency

of Professor Henslow of Cambridge. I was on the committee, and

therefore saw the working of the whole affair.

On the first day there was a dearth of matter in our section.

People had not arrived with their        papers. So by way of finding

out whether I could speak in public      or not, I got up and talked to
them for about twenty minutes. I
                                          was considerably surprised to
find that when once I had made the plunge, my tongue went

glibly enough.

    On the following day I read a long paper, which I had prepared

and illustrated with a lot of big diagrams, to an audience of about
twenty people ! The rest were all away after Prince Albert, who

had been unfortunately induced to visit the meeting, and fairly

turned the heads of the good people of Ipswich. On Saturday a

very pleasant excursion on scientific pretences, but in fact a most

jolly and unscientific picnic, took place. Several hundred people

went down the Orwell in a steamer. The majority returned, but I

and two others, considering Sunday in Ipswich an impossibility,

stopped at a little seaside village, Felixstowe, and idled away our

time there very pleasantly. Babington the botanist and myself

walked in to Ipswich on Sunday night. It is about eleven miles,

and we did it comfortably in two hours and three quarters, which

was not bad walking.

On Monday at Section D again. Forbes brought forward the

subject of my application to Government in committee, and it was

unanimously agreed to forward a resolution on the subject to the

Committee of Recommendations. I made a speechification of some

length in the Section about a new animal.

    On Thursday morning I attended a meeting of the Ray Society,

and to my infinite astonishment, the secretary, Dr. Lankester, gave
me the second motion to make. The Prince of Casino moved the
Ifirst, so was in good company. The great absurdity of it was
that not being a member of the Society I had properly no right to
Ispeak at all.

and did the
             "  However,    it was only   a   vote of   thanks,  and  got up
                neat and   appropriate       in style.
                                         "

9°             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        chap, v11

    After this a party of us went out dredging in the Orwell in a

Ismall boat. We were away all day, and it rained hard coming

back, so that got wet through, and had to pull five miles to keep

off my enemy, the rheumatics.   dinner,   to which I did  not  go, as  I
     Then came the President's

preferred making myself comfortable with a few friends elsewhere.
And after that, the final evening meeting, when all the final deter

minations are announced.
              them I had the satisfaction to hear that it was resolved
--   Among
    that the  President and Council of the British Association should

co-operate with the Royal Society in representing the value and im
portance, etc., of Mr. T. H. Huxley's zoological researches to Her

Majesty's Government for the purpose of obtaining a grant towards

their publication. Subsequently I was introduced to Colonel Sabine,

the President of the Association in 1852, and a man of very high
standing and considerable influence. He had previously been

Icivil                                           Royal Society, unsolicited,
                                                 only mean that as a very
and
    enough to sign  my    certificate at  --the
    therefore knew  me    by reputation

small word. He was very civil and promised me every assistance

in his power.
    It is a curious thing that out of the four applications to Govern

ment to be made by the Association, two were for Naval Assistant-

ISurgeons, viz. one for Dr. Hooker, who had just returned from the

Himalaya Mountains, and one for me. How envied Hooker ; he

has long been engaged to a daughter of Professor Henslow's, and
at this very meeting he sat by her side. He is going to be married
in a day or two. His father is director of the Kew Gardens, and

there is little doubt of his succeeding him.
      Whether the Government accede to the demand that will be

Imade upon them or not, can now rest satisfied that no means of
influencing them has been left unused by me. If they will not listen

to the conjoint recommendations of the Royal Society and the

British Association, they will listen to nothing. . . .

    IJuly 16, 1851. -- went yesterday to dine with Colonel Sabine.
We had a long discourse about the prospects and probable means

I Iof existence of young men trying to make their way to an existence
in the scientific world.  took, as indeed what           have seen has

forced me to take, rather the despairing side of the question, and

said that as it seemed to me England did not afford even the

means of existence to young men who were willing to devote them

selves to science. However, he spoke cheeringly, and advised me

Iby no means to be hasty, but to wait, and he doubted not that
should succeed. He cited his own case as an instance of waiting,
Ieventually successful. Altogether
                                          felt the better for what he

said. . . .

    There has been a notice of me in the Literary Gazette for last

                                 RED LION CLUB                                                                         9>

          Iweek, much more laudatory than deserve, from the pen of my

          friend Forbes.* . . .

            In the same number is a rich song from the same fertile and
          Iversatile pen, which was sung at one of our Red Lion meetings.

          That is why want you to look at not that you will understand
          it,
                           it
                                  is
                                                      a

                                                                         it,
                                                                              a

                                                                                                                         in

                                                                                                                                                                          ;
          because              full of allusions to occurrences known only the

          scientific circles. At Ipswich we had grand Red Lion meeting

          about forty members were present, and among them some of the

          most distinguished members of the Association. Some foreigners

          were invited (the Prince of Casino, Buonaparte's nephew, among
          others), and were not little astonished to see the grave professors,

          whose English solemnity and gravity they had doubtless commented

          on elsewhere, giving themselves up to all sorts of fun. Among the

          Red Lions we have a custom (instead of cheering) of waving and
          wagging one coat-tail (one Lion's tail) when we applaud. This
          seemed to strike the Prince's fancy amazingly, and when he got up to

          return thanks for his health being drunk, he told us that as he was

          rather out of practice in speaking English, he would return thanks

          in our fashion, and therewith he gave three mighty roars and wags,
          to the no small amusement of every one. He singularly like the
                   I

                                                              is
                                                                  aa
                                                                                          a

                                                                                            is
          portraits of his uncle, and seems           very jolly, good-humoured old

          fellow.    believe, however, he            bit of rip. It was remarkable

          how proud the Quakers were of being noticed by him.

                               To W. Macleay, of Sydney

                                         41 North Bank, Regent's Park,

                                                             Nov. 9, 85 1.
                                 year to-day since the old Rattlesnake was
            My dear Sir--      It

                                    is
                                        a

                                                                                                      1

          paid off, and that reminds me among other things that                                                        have
                                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                  is,
          hardly kept my promise of giving you information now and then

          upon the state of matters scientific in England. My last letter

          am afraid, nine or ten months old, but here in England the fight
I
          ing and scratching to keep your place in the crowd exclude almost
         1
          all other  thoughts. When            last   wrote       was but                                a--t nthoew  edge of
          the crush  at the pit-door of       this   great   fools' theatre                                                have
                               I                                                                                    I

                                   it

                                         I

                                                          a
                                                                it,

                                                         I
                                                              I
          worked my way into and through and am, hope, not far from

          the check-takers.      have learnt good deal in my passage.

          publi[sFhoelldow--s     an account  aof his efforts to get his papers
                               substantially    repetition of what has already

been given.]

         An appreciation of his papers on the Physophoridae and Sagitta, speaking
highly both of his observations and philosophic power, in the report of the pro
ceedings in Section D.

92            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       chap, vn

    IRumours there are scattered abroad of a favourable cast, and
am told on all hands that something will certainly be done. I only

asked for £300, something less than the cost of a parliamentary

blue-book which nobody ever hears of. They take care to obliterate

any spark of gratitude that might perchance arise for what they

do, by keeping one so long in suspense that the result becomes

almost a matter of indifference. Had I known they would keep
me so long, I would have published my work as a series of papers

in the Philosophical Transactions.

    In the meanwhile I have not been idle, as I hope to show you

Iby the various papers enclosed with this. You will recollect that
on the Salpae.    No one      here   kanbeswoluatenlyythnienwg--aubnotuilt,  them, and
thought that all               were
                  my results                                                 me miserum /
I found them in a little paper of Krohn's in the Annales des Sciences

I Ifor 1846, without any figures to draw anybody's attention.
     The memoir on   the Medusae      (which      sent  to you) has, hear,
just escaped a high                  wit, the  Royal    Medal. The award
                     honour -- to                       " Impregnation."
Ihas been made to Newport for his paper on
had no idea that anything I had done was likely to have the
Islightest claim to such distinction, but was informed yesterday

by one of the Council that the balance hung pretty evenly, and was

only decided by their thinking my memoir was too small and short.

    I have been working in all things with a reference to wide views

of zoological philosophy, and the report upon the Echinoderms is

intended in common with the

Iviews of Individuality among
                                     mem.  loownertheaniSmalaplase--  to explain my
                                      the                             views which

mean to illustrate still further and enunciate still more clearly in

my book that is to be.* They have met with approval from

Carpenter, as you will see by the last edition of his Principles of

Physiology, and I think that Forbes and some others will be very

likely eventually to come round to them, but everything that relates

to abstract thought is at a low ebb among the mass of naturalists in

this country.      upon " Thalassicolla,"      and in that which I read
     In the paper

before the British Association, as also in one upon the organisation

of the Rotifera, which I am going to have published in the Micro
Iscopical Society's Transactions, have been driving in a series of

wedges into Cuvier's Radiata, and showing how selon mot they

ought to be distributed.

    I am every day becoming more and more certain that you were

on the right track thirty years ago in your views of the order and

symmetry to be traced in the true natural system.
              the next session I
      During                      mean to send in a paper to the R.S.
upon the "    Homologies of the   Mollusca," which shall astonish them.
I want to get done for the Mollusca what Savigny did for the

    1 He lectured on this subject at the Royal Institution in 1852.

                           SCIENCE HIS VOCATION                                            93

Articulata,    viz. to show              how   --thaerye  all--Cephalopoda, Gasteropoda,
Pteropoda,     Heteropoda,               etc.
                                                          organised on one type, and how

the homologous organs are modified in each. What with this and

the book, I shall have enough to do for the next six months.

        You will doubtless ask what is the practical outlook of all this ?

whether it leads anywhere in the direction of bread and cheese ?
  ITo this also I can give a tolerably satisfactory
        As  ygorueawt osno'trrhoawve--a  Professor of     Natural             answer.  at  Sydney--
        my                                have gone       in as a             History

to                                                                            candidate for a Pro

fessorial chair at the other end               of         tdheonew--orlidt ,   Toronto in  Canada.
                                               be                             is the most  hopeless
In England there is nothing to
  Iprospect
               know of ; of course the Service offers nothing for me

  except irretrievable waste of time, and the scientific appointments

are so few and so poor that they are not tempting. . . .

       Had the Sydney University been carried out as originally pro

  posed, I should certainly have become a candidate for the Natural
  History Chair. I know no finer field for exertion for any naturalist

  than Sydney Harbour itself. Should such a Professorship be here
  Iafter established, trust you will jog the memory of my Australian
  Ifriends in my behalf.
                                         have finally decided that my vocation is
  Iscience, and have made up my mind to the comparative poverty

  which is its necessary adjunct, and to the no less certain seclusion

  from the ordinary pleasures and rewards of men. I say this with

  out the slightest idea that there is anything to be enthusiastic about

  in either science or its professors. A year behind the scenes is

  quite enough to disabuse one of all rose-pink illusions.

        But it is equally clear to me that for a man of my tempera

  ment, at any rate, the sole secret of getting through this life with

  anything like contentment is to have full scope for the development

  --of  one's  faculties.     Science alone seems to me to afford this scope
        Law,   Divinity,   Physic, and Politics being in a state of chaotic

  vibration between utter humbug and utter scepticism.

        There is a great stir in the scientific world at present about

  who is to occupy Konig's place at the British Museum, and whether

  the whole establishment had better not, quoad Zoology, be re
  modelled and placed under Owen's superintendence. The heart

  -burnings and jealousies about this matter are beyond all conception.
  Owen is both feared and hated, and it is predicted that if Gray

  and he come to be officers of the same institution, in a year or two
  the total result will be a caudal vertebra of each remaining after the

  manner of the Kilkenny cats.

      However, I heard yesterday, upon what professed to be very

  good authority, that Owen would not leave the College under any

  circumstances.

       It is astonishing with what an intense feeling of hatred Owen

  is regarded by the majority of his contemporaries, with Mantell as

  94                         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                      chap, v11

  arch-hater. The truth he the superior of most, and does not
                                    it, is,
                                             it is
  conceal that he knows                           and                             must be confessed that he does
  some very ill-natured tricks now and then. A striking specimen of

  owonwheenreimhmteoepdbiilealotrefioesusunbpdoorodinrinQahutiese--kaertittni--cleit isaon Lyell in the   last Quarterly,
                                                                                     a  most inoffensive   man and his
                                                                                      manner not more
                                                                                                          remarkable for

  its severity than for its bad                   taste. That review has done him much
  harm in the estimation of                        thinking men -- and curiously enough,

  since was written, reptiles have been found in the old red sand

  stone, and insectivorous mammals in the Trias                                                Owen an able
                                                                                               !

                                                                                                                 is

  man, but to my mind not so great as he thinks himself. He can

  only work in the           locsot --ncrweittenesfsrom"    bone to bone,                      in abstract                  reason
  ing he becomes                                          Parthenogenesis                      " which he                  told me

  he considered one of the best things he had done
       He has, however, been very civil to me, and am as grateful as
                                                                                               I
                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                          !

                                                                                                           it
             possible to be towards man with whom feel                                                         necessary to
  it                         I
      isbe always on my guard.            is
                                              a
  in        atQhiusitecoaunnotrtyhe--r beinmgean  the other leader                             of Zoological Science
                                                   Edward Forbes,                              Paleontologist to the

  Geological Survey. More especially                                                    Zoologist and Geologist
                                                                                        Ia
                                                                                                                        a
  than Comparative Anatomist, he has more claims to the title of                                                           a

  Philosophic Naturalist than any man know of in England. A

  man        of     letters  and    an artist, he has not merged the man                                                   in the
  man        of     science         has sympathies for all, and an earnest,                                                 truth-
                             -- he

  seeking, thoroughly genial disposition which win for him your

  affection as well as your respect. Forbes has more influence by his
  personal weight and example upon the rising generation of scientific

  naturalists than Owen will have he write from now till Doomsday.
                    I

                               is

                                            if
             Personally am greatly indebted to him (though the opinion
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                       I
  have just expressed               that of the world in general). During my

  absence he superintended the publication of my paper, and from

  the moment of my arrival until now he has given me all the help

  one man can give another. Why he should have done so do not

  know, as when left England had only spoken to him once.
       The rest of the naturalists stand far below these two in learn

  ing, originality, and grasp of mind. Goodsir of Edinburgh should
                    if I

                                                       1

                                     is I

                                                     a
                                                                  3.
                                                                              2 is
                                                                                   a
II  suppose come next, but he can't write intelligibly. Darwin might

  be anything he had good health. Bell                                                         good man in all

  the senses of the word, but wants qualities                                                    and  R3y.merNeJwonpeosrt--a
                                                                                               and
  laborious man, but wants                        and                                   Grant
  arcades ambo -- have mistaken their vocation.

             My old chief Richardson                                              man of men, but troubles himself

  little with anything but detail zoology. What think you of his

  getting married for the third time just before his last expedition?

      hardly know by which step he approved himself the bolder

  man.

               THE SCIENTIFIC WORLD OF 1851                                                95

    I   think I have now    --fualfnilldedifmtyhisprolomnigse   of supplying you           with a
                                                               epistle has repaid            your
little  scientific scandal

trouble in getting through      am content.
               a aI
                   I
                      I
                             iIt,
                                    I
Believe me, have not forgotten, nor ever shall forget, your kind

ness to me at time when a little appreciation and encouragement

were more grateful to me and of more service than they will per

haps ever be again.         have done my best to justify you.

        send copies of all the papers have published with one ex
I
    IIception, of which have none separate. Of the Royal Society
papers send double set. Will you be kind enough to give one
       I
with my kind regards and remembrances to Dr. Nicholson                  !                  feel

ought to have written to him before leaving Sydney, but trust            ! ?I I

he will excuse my not having done so.                        time  to  write. -- Ever!
         shall be very glad you can find
                            if                                                             yours

faithfully,                                                            T. H. Huxley.

W. Macleay, Esq.

PS. -- Miiller has just made most extraordinary discovery, no
        a
                                                          a
less than the generation of Molluscs from Holothuriae                                      You

will find translation of his paper by me in the Annals for January

1852.

Dec. 13, 1851.

                            To h1s S1ster

                                                                        May 20, 85 1.
                                                                        it

                                                                                        1
      . . . Owen has been amazingly civil to me, and was through
his writing to the First Lord that got my present appointment.
                                is

                                    I
He queer fish, more odd in appearance than ever . . . and
is
    a

more bland in manner. He so frightfully polite that never feel
                                                                        I

thoroughly at home with him. He got me to furnish him with
some notes for the second edition of the Admiralty Manual of Scientific
Inquiry, and find that in                          Darwin and (comparisons are
             I                                                     I
                        I is

                                         it
                                                 is
odorous) figure as joint authorities on some microscopic matters
Professor Forbes, however,                                                     is

                                                                                                !
                                                                                                  !
                                                             my great ally, a first-rate man,

thoroughly in   earnest  andgdreisaint t--eretostehd,elpanadnyremadayn  to give  his time
and influence                                                           who       working
               -- which

for the cause. To him am indebted for the supervision of papers

that were published in my absence, for many introductions, and

most valuable information and assistance, and all done in such                             a

way as not to oppress one or give one any feeling of patronage,I
which you know (so much do retain of my old self) would not
suit me. My notions are diametrically opposed to his in some

matters, and he helps me to oppose him. The other night, or

rather nights, for took three, had long paper read at the
                     it

                                    I

                                                            a

Royal Society which opposed some of his views, and he got up and

96           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                       chap, vn

spoke in the highest terms of it afterwards. This is all as it should

Ibe. can reverence such a man and yet respect myself.
    I have been aspiring to great honours since I wrote to you last,

to wit the F.R.S., and found no little to my astonishment that I

had a chance of and so went in.
I
       a

         I
                                 it,
                                         II
                                                                a it
                                                I
                                                                                                         a
                                                                I
                                   must tell you that they have

made the admission more difficult than used to be. Candidates are

not elected by the Society alone, but fifteen only year are selected

by committee, and then elected as           matter of course by the
Society. This year there were thirty-eight candidates.
                                                                                                            did not

expect to come in till next year, but find am one of the selected.

    fancy shall be the junior Fellow by some years. Singularly

enough, among the non-selected candidates were Ward, the man

who conducted the Botanical Honours Examination of Apothe

caries' Hall nine years ago, and Bryson, the surgeon of the Fisguard,

i.e. nominally my immediate superior, and who, as he frequently
acts as Sir Wm. Burnett's deputy, will very likely examine me when
pass for Surgeon R.N.                                                        a

                                                                                    I
                       That awkward and must be annoying
it
                 ato him, butnot my fault.did not ask for single name

               a I itthat appeared upon my certificate. Owen's name and Carpenter's,
                I I is
                    I I 1!

                                                  is

                                      I I is
                                      I I iIf I

                                            it I
which were to have been appended, were not added. Forbes, my

recommender, told me beforehand not to expect to get in this year,

and did not use his influence, and so have no intriguing to reproach
myself with or to be reproached with. The only drawback that
  will cost me £14, which more than can very well afford.                                                   is

    By the way, have not told you that after staying for about five

months with George, found that     meant to work in earnest his
                                                                             -- for they
vheormyehawpapsyntohterteh,e--placseu,msmo,omneudchretsoolumtyionregarnedt,                made me
                                                                             The Boy's    Own Book

and took den of my own, whence     write at present. You had

better, however, direct to George, as am going to move and don't

know how long may remain at my next habitation. At present                                                      aI

am living in the Park Road, but find too noisy and am going to

St. Anne's Gardens, St. John's Wood, close to my mother's, against
whose forays shall have to fortify myself.

    It was minor addition to his many troubles that after

time Huxley found a grudging and jealous spirit exhibited

in some quarters towards his success, and influence used to

prevent any further advance that might endanger the exist

ing balance of power in the scientific world. But this could

be battled with directly indeed             was rather relief to
                       ;

                                   a

                                            ;

                                      a it

                                                                        a
have an opportunity for action instead of sitting still to wait

the results of uncertain elections. The qualities requisite for

such a contest he possessed, in high ideal of the dignity of
science as an instrument of truth
                                            standard of veracity in

     1852 JEALOUSY OF HIS RISE                                                                           97

scientific workers to which all should subordinate their per
sonal ambitions ; a disregard of authority as such unless its
claims were verified by indisputable fact ; and as a begin
ning, the will to subject himself to his own most rigid canons
of accuracy, thoroughness, and honesty ; then to maintain
his principle and defend his position against all attempts at

browbeating.

                                                                            March 5, 1852.

       II told you I was very busy, and I must tell you what am
     Iabout and you will believe me.
                                                    have just finished a Memoir for

     the Royal Society,* which has taken me a world of time, thought,
                                     perhaps, the best thing have done yet. It
     and reading, and         ; is,                    it is,I
                                                           I
     will not be read till May, and do not know whether they will print
                                       ;I                           a
is it   or not afterwards that will require care and little manoeuvring
     on my part. You have no notion of the intrigues that go on in

     this blessed world of science. Science            fear, no purer than any

     other region of human activity though should be. Merit alone

       very little good       I;       must be backed by tact and knowledge of the

                                   it
     world to do very much.

       For instance, know that the paper have just sent in very
                                                    I                                              if is
                                                      I
                                                                                                       it
                                                                        ?a                                it, it is
original        and  of       some importance,      a"ndpartiacmulaerqufrailelyndsu"re  that
referred         to  the        judgment of my                                                 that

     will not be published. He won't be able to say word against

     but he will pooh-pooh to dead certainty.
                                       it

                                                 a

       You will ask with some wonderment, Why                               Because for the

     last twenty years                 has been regarded as the great authority on

     these matters, and has had no one to tread on his heels, until at last,

       think, he has come to look upon the Natural World as his special
I    preserve, and "no poachers allowed." So must manoeuvre little
                                                       I
         i. 1to get my poor memoir kept out of his hands.
                                                                                          a

                                                                                 I
             The necessity for these little stratagems utterly disgusts me.

     would so willingly reverence and trust any man of high standing and

     ability.      am so utterly unable to comprehend this petty greedi
                I
     ness. And yet withal you will smile at my perversity.I                             aI         haveIa

     certain pleasure in overcoming these obstacles, and fighting theseit,                 is

     folks with their own weapons.                  do so long to be able to trust men
                                       a

                                            if I
     implicitly.            have such horror of all this literary pettifogging.

     could be so content myself, the necessity of making position

     would allow to work on anonymously, but           if                   see deter

                                                           I
     mined not to let either me or any one else rise he can help it. Let

     him beware. On my own subjects                 I  am his master, and am quite

     ready to fight half dozen dragons. And although he has bitter
                              a                                                         a

            "On the Morphology of the Cephalous        Mollusca," Scientific Memoirs,

     vol. p. 152.                                                                H

            VOL.
                I

9»           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, v11

Ipen,        flatter myself that on occasions I can match him in that

Idepartment also.                      am.         I am getting a memoir

    But I was telling you how busy

ready   for the Zoological  ISociety,  and working at my lecture for the
Royal   Institution, which     want    to make striking and original, as it

Iis a good opportunity, besides doing a translation now and then for
one of the Journals. Besides this,            am working at the British
Museum to make a catalogue of some creatures there. All these

things take a world of time and labour, and yield next to no direct
profit ; but they bring me into contact with all sorts of men, in a

very independent position, and I am told, and indeed hope, that

I Isomething must arise from it. So fair a prospect opens out before
me if can only wait.        am beginning to know what work means,

and see how much more may be done by steady, unceasing, and
I I Iwell-directed efforts.
                            thrive upon it too.            am as well as ever
Iwas in my life, and the more work the better my temper seems

to be.                                             JApril 30, 1852, 11 P.M.

    I have just returned from giving my lecture 1 at the Royal
Institution, of which I told
    I had got very nervous    you in   my last     letter.            mother's
                              about        and     my poor
                                       it,                                      death
                                              it
had greatly upset my plans for working out.

is      was the first lecture had ever given in my life, and to what
                      a
    It
                          I
    considered the best audience in London. As nothing ever works

up my energies but high flight,               had chosen               very difficult
                                       I                              a
                                          II
                                                                           I
                                                       it                            I
abstract point, in my view of which stand almost alone. When

took glimpse into the theatre and saw full of faces, did feel
it
    is                                 can now quite understand what

          a
most amazingly uncomfortable.

       to be going to be hanged, and nothing but the necessity of the

case prevented me from running away.

      However, when the hour struck, in       II    marched, and began to
deliver my discourse. For ten minutes            IIdid not quite know where

    was, but by degrees got used to and gradually gained perfect
I            I                         a it,
               I
command of myself and of my subject.                       believe contrived to
                                                                   II
interest my audience, and upon the whole think may say that

this essay was successful.
    Thank Heaven can say so, for though
                                                           it  is  no great matter

succeeding, failing would have been           bitter annoyance to me. It
has put me comfortably at my ease with regard to all future lectur

ings. After the Royal Institution there no audience shall ever
                                              is                       I

fear.

                                                                          May 9.

    The foolish state of excitement into which allowed myself to
                                                           II
get the other day completely did for me, and have hardly done
                                                                  i.
       "On Animal Individuality," Scientific Memoirs, vol.1           p. 146, cp. p. 88,

supra.

1852 DEA TH OF HIS MOTHER                                                                  99

Ianything since except sleep a great deal. It is a strange thing that

with all my will cannot control my physical organisation.

                   To his Sister

  ... April 17, 1852.
          I fear nothing will have prepared you to hear that one so

active in body and mind as our poor mother was has been taken

from us. But so it is. . . .
It was very strange that before leaving London my mother,
Ipossessed by a strange whim, as thought, distributed to many of us
Ilittle

her "
things belonging to her.      I laughed at her for what called
testamentary disposition,"
                               little dreaming that the words were

prophetic.

      [The summons to those of the family in London reached them
late, and their arrival was made still later by inconvenient trains

and a midnight drive, so that all had long been over when they
came to Barning in Kent, where the elder Huxleys had just settled

near their son James.]
      Our mother had died at half-past four, falling gradually into a

more and more profound insensibility. She was thus happily spared

Ithe pain of fruitlessly wishing us round her, in her last moments ;

and as the hand of Death was upon her, know not that it could

have fallen more lightly.

    II offer you no consolation, my dearest sister, for know of

none. There are things which each must bear as he best may with

Ithe strength that has been allotted to him. Would that were near

you to soften the blow by the sympathy which we should have in

common. . . .

                                                                             May 3, 1852.

      So much occupation has crowded upon me between the be

ginning of this letter and the present time that I have been unable
to finish it. I had undertaken to give a lecture at the Royal
Institution on the 30th April. It was on a difficult subject, requiring
a good deal of thought ; and as it was my first appearance and

I Ibefore the best audience in London, you may imagine how anxious

and nervous was, and how completely was obliged to abstract

my thoughts from everything else.
IHowever, I am happy to say it is well over. There was
good audience--    oFaf ra"dnaoy,bs,P"raomf.onFgorbmeys,auDdri.torFso.rbes,   Wharton  a very
                                                                             had made  Jones,
and [a] whole lot
                                                                                       up my

Imind all day to break down, and then go and hang myself privately.
And so you may imagine that        entered the theatre with a very

pale face, and a heart beating like a sledge-hammer nineteen to the

Idozen. For the first five minutes I did not know very clearly what

  was about, but by degrees I got possession of myself and of my

                             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, v11

Isubject, and did not

opinions from all sorts
                                coafremefnor"  anybody.               have had "golden
                                               about
                                               I         so           suppose                 may tell
                                                         it,                   II
                                                           I                         I
you have succeeded.           II  don't think, however, that ever felt so
      I

              ; is
                         is
thoroughly used up in my life as did for two days afterwards.

There         one comfort, shall never be nervous again about any

audience but at one's first attempt, to stand in the place of Fara

day and such big-wigs might excuse little weakness.I if
     The way clear before me, my external circumstances willa

only allow me to persevere but fully expect that shall have to
                                  ;

give up my dreams.              does  everything--but pay.                             You may earn
      Science in England

praise but not pudding.                                                                            a is
         have helping hands held out to me on all sides, but there
      II
nothing to help me to. Last yearI                 became              a             candidate for
                              I
Professorship at Toronto.II aI  aI
                                               I
                                      took an infinity of trouble over the

thing, and got together           mass of testimonials and recommenda

ttoiontsh,ismuchhavebehtteearrdthannothinhgadofantyherigbhutsitnoesesx--pect.       From      that time
                                                                               result for       which
                                                             a                                a
care the less, as believe the chair will be given to
of the members of the Canadian ministry, who                   iIs, a                               I
                                                                                       brother of one
                                                                                       hear, candi

date. Such qualification as that      I           of course, better than all the

testimonials in the world.                it
                                                  is,

                                                  I
       think told you when last wrote that was expecting
                                                              I                               is
                                                                                                    a
grant from Government to publish the chief part of my work, done

while away.                  am expecting still.         got tired of waiting the

other day and wrote to the Duke of Northumberland, who at
present First Lord of the Admiralty, upon the subject. His Grace

has taken the matter up, and hope now to get done.
     With all this, however, Time runs on. People look upon me,
I

                            a

                      I
                                    I

                                                                                it
      suppose, as "very promising young man," and perhaps envy

my "success," and all the while am cursing my stars that my

Pegasus will fly aloft instead of pulling slowly along in some

respectable gig, and getting his oats like any other praiseworthy

cart-horse.

     It's      charming       piece   of irony    --altaongdethoefr.                It       two years
              since left      Sydney    harbour                                        as long since
yesterday     a                                                                           is
                       is,
                                                                      course
                    II
I II  saw Nettie.            am getting thoroughly tired of our separation, and
                             I
       think  she       though the dear little soul      is                            --t--o wtdhhoeichasnewyntsoheuilndog, f
    for my    sake,   and yet dare not face the               ready
    having    failed   in the whole purpose of my
                                                         stagnation
                                                          existence

      know, sooner or later beset me, even with her,                                iIf       forsake my

    present object. Can you wonder with all this, my dearest Lizzie,
    that often as long for your brave heart and clear head to support
              I
                I
    and advise me, yet rarely feel inclined to write Pray write to
                                               ;
                                                                                    ?
    me more often than you have done tell me all about yourself and

    the Doctor and your children. They must be growing up fast, and

1852 THE IRONY OF SUCCESS                                                                                                                                 lot

Florry must be getting beyond the " Bird of Paradise " I promised

her.     Love  --anEdvekirssyeosurtoafafellctoiof ntahteem,braonthderk, indesTt .  remembrances                                                           to
the   Doctor.
                                                                                    H. Huxley.

                         To Miss Heathorn

                                                                                   Nov. 13, 1852.

IWlikeeldGt,hoeitnhgeboAlyassstiinswtaecenhkturStcoehcrteht"eartyhR,inoyksiaanli'd,Soo"'cWienteayl'uls,ghIlitbecrnoa,nr"ygrwafhotuer lnaateIboywookeu,n.t"and
                                                                                                                                                            in,

Iconfess did not see at that moment what any mortal man had to
congratulate me about. I had a deuced bad cold, with rheumatism
in my head ; it was a beastly November day and I was very grumpy,
so I inquired in a state of mild surprise what might be the matter.
Whereupon I learnt that the Medal had been conferred at the
Imeeting of the Council on the day before.
                                                       was very pleased . . .
and I thought you would be so too, and I thought moreover that it
Iwas a fine lever to help us on, and if could have sent a letter to
Iyou immediately I should have sat down and have written one to

you on the spot. As it is have waited for official confirmation

and a convenient season.
      IAnd now . . . shall be very naughty and make a confession ?
IThe thing that a fortnight ago (before got
                                                                thought so much
                                              a

                                                    it, itI)
                                                          I

                                                              I

                                                                                        it
of, give you my word do not care pin for.                                          am sick of
II                   it
and ashamed of having thought so much of and the congratula
                        a
tions get give me sort of internal sardonic grin.                                  think this
                          I
has come about partly because did not get the official confirmait, I I

                                  aI
tion of what had heard for some days, and with my habit of

facing the ill side of things came to the conclusion that Weld
          it a I
had made             mistake, and went in thought through the whole

enormous mortification of having to explain to those whom had
                                                       II
mentioned that was quite mistake.                                         I

                                                                                         it
                                                       found that all this,

when   I--caqmuiete  to look at       was   --byanndo    means   so dreadful as
seemed                bearable       short             then     laughed at myself
                                 in

...and have cared nothing about the whole concern ever since. In
truth          do not think that am in the proper sense of the
I
             I

                      I

                                           a

                                     I
word ambitious.      --  have an enormous       longing after the                  highest and
best in all shapes         longing which      haunts me and                        the demon
                                                       I
                                                                      is

                                                                         I
which ever impels me to work, and will let me have no rest unless

am doing his behests. The honours of men value so far as they

are evidences of power, but with the cynical mistrust of their

judgment and my own worthiness, which always haunts me, put
very little faith in them. Their praise makes me sneer inwardly.

...God forgive me        do them any great wrong.
        I
                iIf
          feel and know that all the rewards and honours in the

102                       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                       chap, v11

world will ever be worthless for me as soon as they are obtained.

I know that always, as now, they will make me more sad than joy
Iful. know that nothing that could be done would give me the

pure and heartfelt joy and peace of mind that your love has given

me, and, please God, shall give for many a long year to come, and

yet my demon says work ! work ! you shall not even love unless you

work.

    INot blinded by any vanity, then, hope . . . but viewing this
Istroke of fortune as respects its public estimation only, think I

must look upon the award of this medal as the turning-point of my

life, as the finger-post teaching me as clearly as anything can what
is the true career that lies open before me. For whatever may be

my own private estimation of  there can be no doubt as to the
                            it
                               it,

                                                                             it
                                                                                        is
general feeling about this thing, and in case of my candidature for
any office would have the very greatest weight. And as you will
I
             I it             only strengthens and confirms the
...have seen by my last letter,
conclusion had come to. Bid me God-speed then                                               all

want to labour cheerfully.

                                                            Nov. 28.

      . . You will hear all the details of the Great Duke's state funeral
      .

from the papers much better than can tell you them.                                     went to
                              a;
the   Cathedral           (St. Paul's) and had the  good fortune to get                   capital
seat                       close to the great doorIIby which every one                  entered.
      -- in front,                       I

                                                              a

                                                        I

                                                                                       a
I It  was bitter cold, a keen November wind blowing right in, and as

    was there from eight till three,                expected nothing less than
rpftohhitereifumuDmlouraetktoeicts--heaefnesvttatehhnrerdeeipnthogqeourwanroitetlehdxrtsbMadoaraefryqaunhieshahodoouwfri.enAvnetrghItleewskeaesyde--iidnmnp'trweyisnegsdaievrteciltoo.elsdneeourIttgohthwma--anes

the great interior lighted up by single line of light running along

the whole circuit of the cornice, and another encircling the dome,

and casting curious illumination over the masses of uniforms
                   a

which filled the great space. The best of our people were there

and passed close to me, but the only face that made any great
impression upon my memory was that of Sir Chas. Napier, the

conqueror of Scinde. Fancy very large, broad-winged, and fierce-
                            a

                                                    !

                                                  I
                                                      I
looking hawk in uniform. Such an eye

      When the coffin and the mourners had passed closed up with

the soldiers and went up under the dome, where              heard the

magnificent service in full perfection.
      All of
      I                   however, was but stage trickery compared with the

noble simplicity of the old man's life. How the old stoic, used toit,

phtoiosmthipreo--sne"nscdubaberTmdreyniitnantngiyndsgoonnht'aosorfdtohtdhahete,aibQrhyuopwewieelalnvoye'wsro,,fGawponavodecukrlndainmllgheo--antvhte.e"rsmtnhoiilntegdws oanrtethcaelmslsuatrhcyeh
                                                    it
                                                        is

1852 RECEIVES THE ROYAL MEDAL                                                             103

Imore, the only decent passages to my mind being those have

marked.

    IThe day after to-morrow go to have my medal presented and

to dine and make a speech.

      The Royal Medal was conferred on November 30, and

the medallists were entertained at the anniversary dinner of

the Society on that day. In the words with which the

President, the Earl of Rosse, accompanied the presentation
of the medal, " it is not difficult," writes Sir M. Foster,
" reading between the lines, to recognise the appreciation of

a new spirit of anatomical inquiry, not wholly free from a

timorous apprehension as to its complete validity." 1 For

the difference between this and the labours of the greatest

English comparative anatomist of the time, whose detailed

work was of the highest value, but whose generalisations

and speculations, based on the philosophy of Oken, proved

barren and fruitless, lay in the fact that Huxley, led to it

doubtless by his solitary readings in his Charing Cross days,

had    taken up the method                     of von    Baer and Johannes      Miiller,
then    almost unknown, or                                unused in England
                                               at least                         --" the

method which led the anatomist to face his problems in the

spirit in which the physicist faced his."

       He had been warned by Forbes not to speak too strongly

about the dilatoriness of the Government in the matter of
the grant, so he writes : " I will ' roar you like any sucking
dove' at the dinner, though I felt tempted otherwise." On

December 1 he tells how he carried out this advice.

My dear Forbes --You will, I know, like to learn how I got on
yesterday. The President's address to me had been drawn up by
         It was, of course, too
Bell.  points in my work -- at                 flattering, but he had  taken    hold  of  the
right
                                               least I thought so.

Bunsen spoke very well for Humboldt.                           dinner -- sixty  or seventy
There was a capital congregation at the

Fellows there. . . .

1 " In these papers (on the Medusae) you have for the first time fully
                                     and laid  the foundation  of a rational theory for their
developed their   st"ruIcntuyreo,ur   second   paper ' On the  Anatomy of Salpa and Pyro
classification."

soma,' the phenomena, etc., have received the most ingenious and elaborate
elucidation, and have given rise to a process of reasoning, the results of which
can scarcely yet be anticipated, but must bear in a very important degree upon
some of the most abstruse points of what may be called transcendental physiology."

See Royal Society, Obituary Notices, vol. lix. p. 1.

104  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                              CHAP. VII

     When it came to my turn to return thanks, I believe I made a

IvReorsysetohleardabalelludsepdeetcohif"icsactiieonnc, e  at least everybody says so. Lord
                                                          having to take care of itself in this

country," and in winding up gave them a small screed upon that
Itext. That you may see kept your caution in mind, 1 will tell
I I Iyou as nearly as may be what said.
                                                          told them that could not
Iconceive that anything had hitherto done merited the honour of
Ithat

glad
     day (I looked so    preciously                       meek over this), but             that was
                                                          so much unpublished              material as
     to be able to say  that I had
It"oTmheakeGomveernhmopeenftulofofthoisnecoduanytrdy,imoinfisthhiinsg
                                                            the             debt.          then  said,
                                                          great              country,      has   been

Itwo years debating whether it should grant the three hundred
pounds necessary for the publication of these researches.                                        have

Ibeen too long used to strict discipline to venture to criticise any act

of my superiors, but venture to hope that before long, in con
sequence of the exertions of Lord Rosse, of the President of the

British Association, and the goodwill, which I gratefully acknowledge,
of the present Lord of the Admiralty, I shall be able to lay before

Iyou something more worthy of to-day's award."                                             but both Lord

         had my doubts how the nobs would take
I

                           is

                     I

                                                            if is

                                                                                  a a it,
Rosse and Sabine warmly commended my speech and regretted                                        aI I

had not said even more upon the subject.

     Some light         thrown upon his habits at this time

by the following, part of his letter to Forbes of November

19 :--

     have frequent visits from                            . He                           good man, but

direfully argumentative, and in that sense to me bore. Besides

that, the creature will come and call upon me at nine or ten o'clock

in the morning before am out of bed, or out of bed, before
am in possession of my faculties, which never arrive before twelve
or one.

     This morning incapacity was of a piece with his hatred
of the breakfast-party of the period. To go abroad from

home or to do any work before breakfasting ensured him
headache for the rest of the day, so that he never was one
of those risers with the dawn who do half a day's work
before the rest of the world astir. And though necessity
often compelled him to do with less, he always found eight
hours his proper allowance of sleep.

      But in the end of 1853 we hear of reform in his ways,
after bad bout of ill-health, when he rises at eight, goes to

bed at twelve, and eschews parties of every kind as far as

possible, with excellent results as far as health went.
     a
                                              is

                                                                         a

1853 PRACTICAL VALUE OF THE MEDAL                                                                 105

      After his marriage, however, and indeed to the beginning
of his last illness, he always rose early enough for an eight

o'clock breakfast, after which the working day began, lasting
regularly from a little after nine till midnight.

                                 4 Upper York Place, St. John's Wood,

                                                             Feb. 6, 1853.

letteMr--aniyt  thanks,  my      dearest sister,             for your      kind and    thoughtful
                went to  my      heart no little             that you,     amidst all  your trials

Iand troubles, should find time to think so wisely and so affectionately
of mine. Though greatly tempted otherwise,                                   have acted in the

spirit of your advice, and my reward, in the shape of honours at any

rate, has not failed me, as the Royal Society gave me one of the

IRoyal medals last year. It's a bigger one than got under your
Iauspices so many years ago, being worth £50, but don't know
that I cared so much about it.
     It was assigned to
the world I, of course,          me  quite         utnheexpbeicgtgeedrly--,   and   in the eyes   of
                                 am  greatly                                        will confess
                                                                             but I                to
you privately that I am by no means dilated, and am the identical
Boy Tom I was before I achieved the attainment of my golden
porter's badge. Curiously it was given for the first Memoir I have

in the Royal    Saoncdiettrye'smbTlirnagn,saacntido,ns",      sent   home   four years ago   with
no small fear                                                after  many   days," returning  with
Ithis queer crust of bread. In the speech had to make at the
IAnniversary Dinner grew quite eloquent on that point, and talked
Iof the dove had sent from my ark, returning, not with the olive

bthreancHhe,spbeurtidweisth--aa  sprig of the bay and a fruit from the garden of
                                                             I thought
which the audience               --sidmisilteingwuhisichhed              decidedly  hcalevveers,aidb--ut
                                                              audience
                                                                        I ought to

probably didn't, as              they did not applaud that, while                   they did some
                                  were incomparably more stupid.                      This was in
things I said which
INovember, and ought to have written to you about it before, my
Idear Lizzie, but for one thing am very much occupied, and for
I Ithe other (shall confess it ?) I was rather puzzled that had not
Iheard from you since wrote. Now my useless conscience, which

never makes me do anything right in time, is pitching in to me

when it is too late.

The medal, however, must not be jested at, as it is most

                poefopprlea,cti"caplraucsteicainl                                   eyes of those
                                                                                    before, and
decidedly

Icharming
                                                   giving    me a status in the
                                                   men,"
                                                             such as I had not

                  to find some of my               friends,         whose contempt for my
                notions was not small              in time          past, absolutely advising
Ia"mdreaammuyse"d
me to take a far more dreamy course than                                     dare venture upon.
However, I take very much my own course now, even as I have
done before -- Huxley all over.

io6                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                      chap, vii

    IHowever, that is enough about myself just now. In the next

letter will tell you more at length about my plans and prospects,
Iwhich are mostly, I am

teeth hard and saying,
                            "soNreryvetro               say, only provocative of  setting                                               my
                                                                                      write                                              in
                                                       mind, I will." But what

a hurry about and want you to do at once, is to write to me and tell

me exactly how money may be sent safely to you. It is inexpedient

to send without definite directions, according to the character you

give your neighbours. Don't expect anything vast, but there is

corn in Egypt. . . .
Ithe Two
     good  classes  --of ppeeoopplele   can              deal with and no third. They are
           people                      after           my own heart, and the thorough men
of the world. Either of these I can act and sympathise with, but

the others, who are neither for God nor for the Devil, but for them

selves, as grim old Dante has and whom he therefore very justly
         a

                 I is
                                                  it,
                                       aI
                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                               .
puts in most uncomfortable place, cannot do with. . .

     So Florry      growing up into great girl the child will not

remember me, but kiss her and my godson for me, and give my love

to them all. The Lymph shall come in my next letter for the

young Yankee.               hope the juices of the English cow will prevent

him from ever acquiring the snuffle.
     Tell the Doctor all about the medal, with my kindest regards,

and believe me, my dearest Lizzie, your affectionate brother,

                                                                                                                                  Tom.

         I                                             Upper York Place, St. John's Wood,
            I                                                         April 22, 1853.

                       it

                                                    4
     My dearest Lizzie --First let me congratulate you on being

safe over your troubles and in possession of another possible Pre

sident.    think may be worth coming over twenty years hence

on the possibility of picking up something or other from one of

my nephews at Washington.

     [He sends some money.] Would                           were more worth your
                                                       it
                                                                          it
                                                                                       is
having, but have not as yet got on to Tom Tiddler's ground on
this side of the water.                  You need not be alarmed about
having involved myself in              any way -- such portion of as of                                                                 my
                                                                                                                                        my

sending has been conquered by mine own sword and spear, and

the rest came from Mary.* . . .

gpbruraognct[eeAetdfhdtees--rr]e--gihvIwaifnsogulbdeweseounrcmecmuapbtaoyoruytttoehlfilsmhyyilsoeututsetnrrauf,olglrgtaluetnhndeawteiittnhhtogriutrghaguenhitnAg--dmwavirnehardiylcthyh,guoyomhedetit
                                                            it
               I
                         a                                                   a

                                                                                  I
illustration of the encouragement afforded to Science in this country,

would not be very amusing. Once or twice has fairly died out,

only to be stirred up again by my own pertinacity. However,

                            1          Mrs. George Huxley.

               "SCIENCE" AND " MAMMON"                                                       107

have hopes of it at last, as I hear Lord Rosse is just about to make

another application to the present Government on the subject.
IWhile this business has been dragging on of course have not been
Iidle.
        have four memoirs (on various matters in Comparative
Anatomy) in the Philosophical Transactions, and they have given me
Itheir Fellowship and one of the Royal medals.
                                                         have written a
whole lot of things for the journals -- reviews for the British and
IForeign Quarterly Medical, etc.
                                          am one of the editors of Taylor's
                                     scientific translations). In conjunction
        fMrieemnodirsBus(kGerImaamn
                                     translating a great German book on the
IScientific

with my
Microscopical Anatomy of Man, and have engaged to write a long
article for Todd's Cyclopedia. Besides this, have read two long

        aItnstthiteutBiornitis--h oAnessoocfiatthioemn,  and have given two lectures at
                                                         only two days ago, when was
memoirs

Ithe Royal
Iso ill with influenza could hardly stand or speak.
      Furthermore, I have been a candidate for a Professorship of

Natural History at Toronto (which is not even yet decided) ; for
one at Aberdeen, which has been given against me ; and at present

I am a candidate for the Professorship of Physiology at King's
College, or, rather, for half of it -- Todd having given up, and

Bowman, who remains, being willing to take               only half, and that he

will  soon give up. My friend        Edward Forbes       -- a regular brick, who
has   backed me through thick
                                      and thin -- is     backing me for King's

College, where he is one of the Professors. My chance                      believe,
                                                         I
                                                           is,I

                                                                              is
very good, but nothing can be more uncertain than the result of

the contest. If they don't take one of their own men think they

will have me.  I a It  would suit me very well, and the whole chair

worth £400 year, and would enable me to live.
                                          my mind        to do, and
   Something         must make        up     doesn't     pay, and "  that speedily.
can get honour       in Science,     but  it                         honour heals
I
no wounds." In truth am often very weary. The longer oneI
                         I

lives the more the ideal and the purpose vanishes out of one's life,

and begin to doubt whether have done wisely in giving vent to
                                     I

the cherished tendency towards Science which has haunted me ever

since my childhood. Had given myself to Mammon might
                                     I                   .

                                                           if

                                                                         I

                                                                                           is
have been respectable member of society with large watch -seals
             a
by this time.     think  it           very likely that        this King's                    C--olbleugrne
               I              is     may give up the     farce altogether

business goes against me,I

my books, burn my rod, and take to practice in Australia. It no

use to go on kicking against the pricks. . .

CHAPTER VIII

                             1854

The year 1854 marks the turning-point in Huxley's career.
The desperate time of waiting came to an end. By the help
of his lectures and his pen, he could at all events stand and
wait independently of the Navy. He could not, of course,
think of immediate marriage, nor of asking Miss Heathorn

to join him in England ; but it so happened that her father
was already thinking of returning home, and finally this was

determined upon just before Professor Forbes' translation to
a chair at Edinburgh gave Huxley what turned out to be

the long-hoped-for permanency in London.

                                                                              June 3, 1854.

I have often spoken to you of my friend Edward Forbes. He has

quite recently been suddenly appointed to a Professorial Chair in

Edinburgh, vacated by the death of old Jamieson. He was obliged
to go down there at once and lecture, and as he had just commenced

his course at the Government School of Mines in Jermyn Street, it

was necessary to obtain a substitute.  He had spoken to me
IIof the possibility of his being called away long ago, and had asked if
  would take his place, to which, of course, assented, but the whole

II Iaffair was so uncertain that never in any way reckoned upon it.

Even at last did not know on the Monday whether was to go

on for him on the Friday or not. However, he did go after giving

I Itwo lectures, and on Friday the 25th May took his lecture, and

have been going on ever since, twice a week on Mondays and

                                       a course of some

                                       but like it and I
IFridays. Called upon

six-and-twenty lectures,
Iso very suddenly to give

    find it very hard work,

never was in better health.

     On July 20, this temporary work, which he had under
taken as the friend of Forbes, was exchanged for one of the

1854 A TURNING-POINT                                                                           109

permanent lectureships formerly held by the latter.                                            A

hundred a year for twenty-six lectures was not affluence ; it

would have suited him better to have had twice the work

and twice the pay. But it was his crossing of the Rubicon,

and, strangely enough, no sooner had he gained this success

than it was doubled.

                                                     July 30, 1854.

I was appointed yesterday to a post of £200 a year. It has all
Icome about in the strangest way.              told you how my friend Forbes
I Idhaednlybeteankensudhdisendluytiecsal--ledshaawrpaywtoorkEditinhbausrgbhe,enandcathnattell
                                                                                               had sud
                                                                                               you these

summer months, but it is over and done satisfactorily. Forbes got

£500     a   year,  £200    for  a double lectureship, £300 for another
             took           the
office.   I         one of       lectureships, which would have given me

£100 a year only, and another man was to have the second lecture
ship and the other office in question. It was so completely settled
a week ago that I had written to the President of the Board of Trade

who makes the appointment, accepting mine, and the other man

had done the same. Happily for me, however, my new colleague

was suddenly afflicted with a sort of moral colic, an absurd idea

that he could not perform the duties of his office, and resigned it.

The result is that a new man has been appointed to the office he

Ileft vacant, while the lectureship was offered to me. Of course

...took and so in the course of the week             have seen my paid
it,                                          a
                                                          a
   I
                                                          I
            a                                                 I
                                                                            I

                                                                                                          is a
income doubled.             So after short interval have become

Government officer again, but in rather different position flatter

myself.      am chief of         my   --owans  department, and my   position                   in
considered       very good       one           good as anything of  its kind

London.

Furthermore, on August                         1     he was " entrusted with
                                                  1

the Coast Survey investigations under the Geological Survey,

and remunerated by fee until March 31, 1855, when he

was ranked as Naturalist on the Survey with an additional

salary of £200, afterwards increased to £400, rising to £600

per annum," as the official statement has it.

Then in quick succession he was offered in August                                              a

lectureship on Comparative Anatomy at St. Thomas' Hos

pital for the following May and June, and in September he

was asked to lecture in November and March for the Science

and Art Department at Marlborough House.

Now therefore, with the Heathorns coming to England,

I IO             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                       CHAP. VIII

his plans and theirs exactly fitted, and he proposed to get

married as soon as they came over, early in the following

summer.

     A letter of this year deserves quoting as illustrating the
directness of Huxley's dealings with his friends, and his hatred
of doing anything unknown to them which might be mis
reported to them or misconstrued without explanation. As
a member of the Royal Society Council, it was his duty to
vote upon the persons to whom the yearly medals of the
Society should be awarded. For the Royal Medal first
Hooker was named, and received his hearty support ; then

Forbes, in opposition to Hooker, in his eyes equally deserving
of recognition, and almost more closely bound to him by
ties of friendship, so that whatever action he took, might be

ascribed to motives which should have no part in such a
selection. The course actually taken by him he explained

at length in letters to both Forbes and Hooker.

                                                             Nov. 6, 1854.

    IMy dear Hooker-- have been           so busy with lecturing here
Iand there that have not had time to      write and congratulate you
Ion the award of the medal. The queer position in which was

Iplaced prevents me from being able to congratulate myself on

having any finger in the pie, but am quite sure there was no

member of the Council who felt more strongly than myself that

what honour the bauble could confer was most fully won, and no

more than your just deserts ; or who rejoiced more when the thing

was settled in your favour.
      IHowever, I do trust that I shall never be placed in such an
awkward position again.      awndoulndailh--avneotgivoennly  a great deal   to   be
able to back Forbes tooth                                    on account
                                                                           of   my
personal friendship and affection for him, but because I think                   he
                                  And had I thought right to do so,
Iwell deserves such recognition.
                                  fully appreciated my motives, and
  felt sure that you would have

       it would   have done no injury to  our
                                          not
      But as I   told the Council I did
Ithat
                                               friendship.   a  case       where
                                                think this

either of you had any right to be excluded by the other.                   told
them that had Forbes been first named, I should have thought it in
Ijudicious to bring you forward, and that, as you were named, for

my own part should not have brought forward Forbes as a candi

date ; that therefore while willing to speak up to any extent for

IForbes' positive merits and deserts, would carefully be understood

to give no opinion as to your and his relative standing.

                       HIS FRANKNESS                                    III

They did not take much by my speech therefore either way,
Imore especially as voted
    I hate doing anything  for  both  koinf dyou".  unbeknownst  "  to  people,
                           of   the
Ifso there is the exact history of my proceedings.               I had been

able to come to the clear conclusion that the claims of either

Iof you were strongly superior to those of the other, I think should
have had the honesty and moral courage to "act accordin'," but I

really had   not, and   so there was no part        to play but that of a sort
of Vicar of            Ever yours faithfully,                T. H. Huxley.
             Bray. --

Forbes' reply was a letter which Huxley, after his friend's
death, held " among his most precious possessions."
                                                                        It

appeared without names in the obituary notice of Forbes in

the Literary Gazette for November 25, 1854, as an example

of his unselfish generosity :--

I heartily concur in the course you have taken, and had I been

placed as you have been, would have done exactly the same. . . .

IYour way of proceeding was as true an act of friendship as any

that could be performed. As to myself, dream so little about

medals, that the notion of being on the list never entered my

brain, even when asleep. If it ever comes I shall be pleased and

Ithankful ; if it does not, it is not the sort of thing to break my

equanimity. Indeed, would always like to see it given not as a

mere honour, but as a help to a good man, and this it is assuredly

in Hooker's case. Government people are so ignorant that they

require to have merits drummed into their heads by all possible

Imeans, and Hooker's getting the medal may be of real service to
him before long.       am in a snug, though not an idle, nest, -- he
                               yet. And so, my dear Huxley, I trust
has not got his resting-place  Ito think that am either grieved or
that you know me too well      Iand are much of the same way of

envious, and you, Hooker,

thinking.

     It is interesting to record the same scrupulosity over
the election to the Registrarship of the University of London

in 1856, when, having begun to canvass for Dr. Latham
before his friend Dr. W. B. Carpenter entered the field, he

writes to Hooker :--

I Iat once, of course, told Carpenter precisely what had done.
IHad                                                I
         known of his  candidature earlier,             should certainly have
taken  no active part
                       on either side -- not           for Latham, because I

would not oppose Carpenter, and not for Carpenter, because his

getting the Registrarship would probably be an advantage for me,

112                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                               chap, viii

as I should have a good chance of obtaining the Examinership in

Physiology and Comparative Anatomy which he would vacate.

Indeed, I refused to act for Carpenter in a case in which he

asked me to do so, partly for this reason and partly because

I felt thoroughly committed to Latham. Under these circum
stances I think you are quite absolved from any pledge to me.

It's deuced hard to keep straight in this wicked world, but as

you say the only chance is to out with                                                     and thank you
          it

                         a
                                                                               it,

                                                          I
                                                                I

                                                                                                    it
much for writing so frankly about the matter.                                                    hope      will be

as fine as to-day at Down.*

      Unfortunately the method was not so successful witha

smaller minds. Once in 1852, when he had to report unit

favourably on paper for the Annals of Natural History on                  !
the structure of the Starfishes, sent in by an acquaintance,

he felt right not to conceal his action, as he might have
done, behind the referee's usual screen of anonymity, but to
write a frank account of the reasons which had led him so
to report, that he might both clear himself of the sus
picion of having dealt an unfair blow in the dark, and give his
acquaintance the opportunity of correcting and enlarging his
paper with view of submitting again for publication.

      In this case the only result was an impassioned corre

spondence, the author even going so far as to suggest that

Huxley had condemned the paper without having so much as

dissected an Echinoderm in his life and then all intercourse

ceased, till years afterwards the gentleman in question realised
the weaknesses of his paper and repented him of his wrath.

      Before leaving London to begin his work at Tenby as
Naturalist to the Survey, he delivered at St. Martin's Hall,
on July 22, an address on the "Educational Value of the
Natural History Sciences." This, when came out later as
21                                                                                 I
              a                                                                        it

                                                   is
                                                                  2
     "Charles Darwin's home in Kent.                                               cannot but think that he
     The subsequent reference                                      to the words,

who finds certain proportion of pain and evil inseparably woven up in the life
of the very worms will bear his own share with more courage and submission
                                                                                                           a;
and will, at any rate, view with suspicion those weakly amiable theories of the

divine government, which would have us believe pain to be an oversight and
                                                                                                            This essay
mistake,  to be corrected by and                basy.""                (Collected  Essays, iii.   p. 62.)  sense," and
contains  the definition of science                                  trained and   organised     common

the reference to       new "Peter               Bell"                which         suggested Miss  May Kendall's
spirited parody of  Wordsworth --
                    a
                                             :

                    Primroses by the river's brim
                    Dicotyledons were to him,
                    And they were nothing more.

iS54 SURVEY WORK AT TENBY                                                               113

a pamphlet, he sent to his                             Tenby friend Dr. Dyster          (of
whom hereafter), to whose                              criticism on one passage         he

replied on October 10 :--

. . .-- I am rejoiced you liked my speechment.         It was written

hastily and like its speaker, fear, more forcible than eloquent,
it

                 is,
                                    p.

                                  is I
but can lay claim to the merit of being sincere.

My intention on                    28 was by no means to express any satis

faction at the worms being as badly off as ourselves, but to show

that pain being everywhere                             inevitable, and therefore like all

other inevitable things to be borne. The rest of                              the product
                                                       a
of my scientific Calvinism, which fell like shell at your feet when
                                                              I I it
we were talking over the fire.                                            is

doubt, or at least have no confidence in, the doctrine of
I                               it

       it                             II
ultimate happiness, and am more inclined to look the opposite
possibility fully in the face, and that also be inevitable, make up
                                                   if

my mind to bear also.                                                                   ;
     You will tell me there are better consolations than Stoicism

t"hgatrinmaanyd  be, butit      "    do not possess    them, and have found             my
                 bear              philosophy stand    me in such good stead in         my
                         I

course through oceans of disgust and chagrin, that should be loth

to give up.

      The summer of 1854 was spent in company with the
Busks at Tenby, amid plenty of open-air work and in great
peace of mind, varied with a short visit to Liverpool in order
to talk business with his friend Forbes, who was eager that
Huxley should join him in Edinburgh.

                                                   Tenby, South Wales, Sept.
                                                       a                      1854.
                                                                          is 3,
have been here since the middle of August, getting rid of my
it                                                                     I
yellow face and putting on brown one, banishing dyspepsias and
  I                                                Ia
hypochondrias and all such other town afflictions to the four winds,I

                            is
and rejoicing exceedingly that am out of the way of that pest, the

cholera, which raging just at present in London.

After had arranged to come here to do lot of work of my

                                   a
                                               by
own which can only be done the seaside, our Director, Sir Henry

de la Beche, gave me special mission of his own whereby have

the comfort of having my expenses paid, but at the same time get

taken out of me in additional labour, so my recreation                        anything

but leisure.

                                                                              Oct. 14.

left this place for week's trip to Liverpool in the end of
I
        II

                                                a
September.       The meeting of the British Association was held

there, but went not so much to be present as to meet Forbes,

VOL.                                                                          I

"4               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, viii

with whom I wanted to talk over many matters concerning us both.
Forbes had a proposition that I should go to Edinburgh to take

part of the duties of the Professor of Physiology there, who is in
bad health, with the ultimate aim of succeeding to the chair. It

was a tempting offer made in a flattering manner, and presenting

a prospect of considerably better emolument than my special post,

but it had the disadvantage of being but an uncertain position.
Had I accepted, I
Professor-- and that  should have       been at the mercy of the actual
                      is a position
                                        I don't like standing in, even with

the best of men, and had he died or resigned at any time the Scotch

chairs are   so  disposed of that there would have                    been nothing like
a certainty  of
                 my getting the post, so I definitely                 declined -- I hope

wisely.
      After some talk, Forbes agreed with my view of the case, so he

is off to Edinburgh, and I shall go off to London. I hope to remain

there for my life long.

      He had long felt that London gave the best oppor

tunities for a scientific career, and it was on his advice that

Tyndall had left Queen wood College for the Royal Institu
tion, where he was elected Professor of Natural Philosophy

in 1853 :--
                                  6 Upper York Place, St. John's Wood,
                                                                                 Feb. 25, 1853.

     My dear Tyndall -- Having rushed into more responsibility
than I wotted of, I have been ruminating and taking counsel what

advice to give you. When I wrote I hardly knew what kind of

work you had in your present office, but Francis has since enlight
Iened me.
                thought you had more            leisure. One thing is very
clear -- you must come out of that.             Your Pegasus is quite out of

place ploughing. You are using yourself up in work that comes to

Inothing, and so far as can see cannot be worse off.
    INow what are your prospects ? Why, as told you before, you
have made a succes here and must profit by it. The other night

your name was mentioned at the Philosophical Club (the most
influential scientific body in London) with great praise. Gassiot,
who has great influence, said in so many words, "you had made

your fortune," and I frankly tell you I believe so too, if you can

only  get over    the next   three  isyeaars".  fineSoopyeonuinsgee"  that quoad   position,
like  Quintus    Curtius,   there                                     ready for   you, only

mind you don't spoil it     --by   any  of your horrid  modesty.      been        trying
      So much for glory           now   for economics.
                                                          I have

Ito ferret out more nearly your chances of a post, and here are my

results (which, need not tell you, must be kept to yourself).

     At the Museum in Jermyn Street, Playfair, Forbes, Percy and I

think Sir Henry would do anything to get you, and eliminate                                   ;

                    ADVICE TO TYNDALL                                                                   "5

but, so far as I can judge, the probability of his going is so small

that it is not worth your while to reckon upon it. Nevertheless

it may be comforting to you to know that in case of anything

happening these men          cwhilal nhceelp--yhoeu   tooth and nail.    Cultivate Play
fair when you have a                                 is a good fellow,
                                                                        wishes you well,

has great influence, and will have more. Entre nous, he has just

got a new and important post under Government.
                             Institution. This is        where, as I told you, you
      Next,    the   Royal    to Faraday's place.
ought to            looking                                 Have no scruple about
             be --

your chemical knowledge ; you won't be required to train a college
of students in abstruse analyses ; and if you were, a year's work

would be     quite  enough to put you                at ease.    --Wshoatcletahreythwaat npt,eoapnled
what you     have,  are clear powers of              exposition
may think they understand even if they don't. That is the secret

of Faraday's success, for not a tithe of the people who go to hear

him really understand him.

    IHowever, am afraid that a delay must occur before you can

get placed at the Royal Institution, as you cannot hold the Pro

fessorship until you have given a course of lectures there, and it

would seem that there is no room for you this year. However, I

must try and learn more about this.

Under these circumstances the London Institution looks tempt
Iing. I have been talking over the matter with Forbes, whose
advice       look upon as first-rate in all these things, and he is de

cidedly of the opinion that you should take the London Institution

if it is offered you. He says that lecturing there and lecturing at

other Institutions, and writing, you could with certainty make more

than you at present receive, and that you would have the command

of a capital laboratory and plenty of time.

    Then as to position -- of which I was doubtful -- it appears that

Grove has made it a good one.        look            to  this    point  in  London -- to

     It is of great importance to

be unshackled by anything that may prevent you taking the highest

places, and it was only my fear on this head that made me advise

you to hesitate about the London Institution. More consideration

leads me to say, take that, if it will bring you up to London at

once, so that you may hammer your reputation while it is hot.                                           I
      However, consider all these things well, and don't be hasty.

will keep eyes and ears open and inform you accordingly. Write
to me if there is
                    anything you     want            diosniem, psruopbpaobslein. g--aElwvaeyrs   there  is
nobody who will                      which                                                      yours,
                    do it better --                              T. H. Huxley.

      But this year of victory was not to pass away without
one last blow from fate. On November 18, Edward
Forbes, the man in whom Huxley had found a true friend

u6        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, vm

and helper, inspired by the same ideals of truth and sincerity
as himself, died suddenly at Edinburgh. The strong but

delicate ties that united them were based not merely upon
intellectual affinity, but upon the deeper moral kinship of

two strong characters, where each subordinated interest to
ideal, and treated others by the measure of his own self-

respect. As early as March 1 8 5 i he had written :--

    I wish you knew my friend Prof. Forbes. He is the best

creature you can imagine, and helps me in all manner of ways.
A man of very great knowledge, he is wholly free from pedantry

and jealousy, the two besetting sins of literary and scientific men.
IUp to his eyes in work, he never grudges his time if it is to help
a friend. He is one of the few men  have ever met to whom I

can feel obliged, without losing a particle of independence or self-

respect.

      The following from a letter to Hooker, announcing Forbes'

death, is a striking testimony to his worth :--

    I think I have never felt so crushed by anything before. It

is one of those losses which cannot be replaced either to the private
friend or to science. To me especially it is a bitter loss. Without

the aid and sympathy he has always given me from first to last, I
should never have had the courage to persevere in the course I

have followed. And it was one of my greatest hopes that we
should work in harmony for long years at the aims so dear to us
both.

      But it is otherwise, and we who remain have nothing left but
to bear the inevitable as we best may.

     And again a few days later :--

    I have had no time to write to you again till now, but I write
Ito say how perfectly you express my own feeling about our poor

friend. One of the first things thought of was that medal

I Ibusiness,* and never rejoiced in anything more than that had
Inot been deterred by any moral cowardice from acting as did.

    I IAs it is reckon that letter (which will show you some day)

among my most precious possessions.

      Huxley's last tribute to his dead friend was the organising
a memorial fund, part of which went to getting a bust of
him made, part to establishing an Edward Forbes medal, to

                                    1 P. in.

1854 DEATH OF EDWARD FORBES                                      "7

be competed for by the students of his old school in Jermyn

Street.

      As Huxley had been Forbes' successor at Jermyn Street,
so now he seemed to many marked out to succeed him at

Edinburgh. In November he writes to Hooker :--

People have been at me about the Edinburgh chair. If I
could contrive to stop here, between you and I, I would prefer it

to half a dozen Edinburgh chairs, but there is a mortal difference

between £200 and £1000 a year. I have written to say that if
Ithe Professors can         up their minds they wish me to stand, I
                      make  For my own part, I believe my chances
will -- if not, will  not.
would be very small, and I think there is every probability of their
dividing the chair, in which case I certainly would not go. How
ever, I hate thinking about the thing.

And also to his sister :--

                                             Nov. 26, 1854.
                                                                 --a
     My dearest Lizzie --   I feel I have been silent very long
great deal too long-- but                                        how
                            you would understand if you knew
Imuch have to do ; why, with every disposition to do otherwise,
II now write hardly any but business letters. Even Nettie comes
off badly am afraid. When a man embarks as I have done, with

nothing but his brains to back him, on the great sea of life in
London, with the determination to make the influence and the

position and the money which he hasn't got, you may depend

upon it that the fierce wants and interests of his present and

immediate circle leave him little time to think of anything else,

whatever old loves and old memories may be smouldering as

Iwarmly as ever below the surface. So, sister mine, you must not
imagine because       do not write that therefore I do not think of
you or'care to know about you, but only that I am eaten up with
the zeal of my own house, and doing with all my heart the thing

that the moment calls for.

The last year has been eventful for me. There is always a
Horn in one's
Thank God             life that  one either  weathers or wrecks one's self
ICape                   think
                                 I may say   I have weathered mine -- not
on.

without a good deal of damage to spars and rigging though, for it
blew deuced hard on the other side.

     At the commencement of this year my affairs came to a crisis.
The Government, notwithstanding all the representations which were

made to them, would neither give nor refuse the grant for the
publication of my work, and by way of cutting short all further

discussion the Admiralty called upon me to serve. A corre

spondence ensued, in which, as commonly happens in these cases,

they got the worst of it in logic and words, and I in reality and

1 [8           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             chap, v111

"tin." They answered my syllogism by the irrelevant and absurd

threat of stopping my pay if I did not serve at once. Here was

a pretty business ! However, it was no use turning back when so

much had been sacrificed for one's end, so I put their Lordships'

letter up on my mantelpiece and betook myself to scribbling for

my bread. They, on the other hand, removed my name from the
List. So there was an interregnum when I was no longer in Her
gaMenatdjeashntayyd'saminseoururvenicdte.omf yssIceilehf natdtioficatlhrweeaodrlykabIojouwirnaenodtfedttr--haenssolWatteihosetnmre--inswateanrsd
                                                                                                                                                  Review,

                                                                                                                                                  I could

                                                                                                                                                  a living,

Ithough a scanty one, and amazingly hard work for it. My pen is not

a very facile one, and what write costs me a good deal of trouble.
      In the spring of this year, however, a door opened. My poor
               Professor Forbes -- whose
lost  friend   been of the utmost service        tsoteamdey--awttaaschcamlleendt     and                                                          aid
had   always                                                                        to fill                                                       the

chair of Natural History in Edinburgh at a moment's notice. It

is a very valuable appointment, and he was obliged to fill it at

once. Of course he left a number of vacancies behind, among

them one at the Government School of Mines in Jermyn Street,

where he lectured on Natural History. I was called upon to take

up his  lectures where         he left  off, in  thepesrammaenesnutdlydenattwacahye, da--nd                                                         the
upshot  of it all was                   became                                                                                                    with
                               that I
£200 a year pay. In other ways I can make a couple of hundred
a year more even now, and I hope by-and-by to do better. In
fact, a married man, as I hope soon to be, cannot live at all in the

position which I ought to occupy under less than six hundred a
Iyear.

able to
        If  Ithkisee--p    my   health, however,     have every hope                of being
                         but,  as the jockeys say,  the pace is severe.                Nettie
        do
Iis coming over in the spring, and if have any luck at all, I mean to

have paid off my debts         and to be   married  --byanthdis   time     next year.*
                                strangely  enough                very      painfully for
me --Innewthe    meanwhile,
               possibilities   have sprung up. My poor friend Forbes

died only a week ago, just as he was beginning his course and

entering upon as brilliant a career as ever was opened to any

scientific man in this country.

    I cannot tell you how deeply this has shocked me. I owe him
Iso much, I loved him so well, and have so very very few friends

I    1 He writes on July 21, 1851 : -- " I commenced life upon nothing at all, and

   had to borrow in the ordinary way from an agent for the necessary expenses of
my outfit. I sent home a great deal of money, but notwithstanding, from the
                                                                           of one
beautiful way  they have of accumulating interest   aInrdetucrhnaerdge--s  besides  description
and another,   I found myself ;£1oo in debt when                                     something
to my brother, about which, however, I do not suppose I need trouble myself
just at present. As you may imagine, living in London, my pay now hardly
keeps me, to say nothing of paying off my old scores. I could get no account
of how things were going on with my agent while I was away, and therefore I
never could tell exactly how I stood."

l854 TENAX PROPOSITI                                                                                                          119

in the true           sense  of  the       woonred,--tahlatthouitghhasthebreeen                      perhaps  a  greater
loss to me            than   to  any                                                               never was  a  man so

widely lamented. One could trust him so thoroughly ! However,

                        paogoarinf--elloawn,d  and there is                                        for  it but to shut
Ihe has gone,                                       was only   nothing                             say  that his death
                                                              going to
one's self up
leaves his post vacant, and I have been strongly urged to become

Ia candidate for it by several of the most influential Edinburgh
Professors.             ancmoarndgdirodeaaIttleyth--ipntukhzozmulegudhchwohtoahftermstoydood.wo.n   I do not want to
leave London,
                                                                                                   chances of success
if I become a
                                                                                                   On the other hand,

a stipend which varies between £800 and £1200 a year is not
to be pooh-poohed.
      IfWe shall see.              I can carry out some arrangements which are

pending with the Government to increase my pay to £400 a year,
I shall be strongly tempted to stop in London. It is the place, the

centre of the world.                                                                                                            I

     In the meanwhile, as                      things        --alwtahyosughdo           incdoirmeectlyin--    heaps,          the
obtained my long-fought-for                      Grant                                                        from

                                   is,

                                    I
Government,             wmhiocthto--tenatxhinpkro, positgi.reat    triumph                              and vindication
of the family                                  a                 Like many                                long-sough t-for
                                                    a
                                       rather bore now have as don't see
blessings, however,            it  is                            I                                 it,

                                                                                                        aI
                                                                                                             I

                                                                                                                                   a
how   I  am           to find time to write the book.                         But things " do them
        " in                                                               how many irons have
selves               afirewonderful way. I'll                t--ell(1y)ou  manual of Comparative
in the                  this present moment:
              at                                              ;a

Anatomy for Churchill; (2) my "Grant" book; (3) book for
the British Museum people (half done) (4) an article for Todd's
Cyclopedia (half done); (5) sundry memoirs on Science; (6)
regular Quarterly article in the Westminster; (7) lectures at Jermyn
Street in the School of Mines (8) lectures at the School of Art,
                        it

                                 ;

                                  I
                                                          ;
Marlborough House (9) lectures at the London Institution, and
odds and ends. Now, my dearest Lizzie, whenever you feel in

clined to think                unkind          don't write, just look at that list, and

remember that all these things require strenuous attention and

concentration of the faculties, and leave one not very fit for any

thing else. You will say that                  I                 bad to    be so                   e--ntbiruetlyyoaubsmoribgehdt
in these things, and to that                              heartily say     Amen                    !
                                                   it
                                                        is                                                                is

athsew"elOl aakrsgu"e    withit aman who has just mounted the favourite for
                        that      is   bad thing to ride fast. He admits that,

                                        a
            Myoff like shot when the bell rings nevertheless.
and     is              a                                                                                                   bell

has rung some time, and thank God the winning-post                                                                            in

sight.

      Give my kindest regards to the doctor and special love to all

the children.                send trifle for my godson and some odds and
                        I

                                           a
                                                                                     a
ends     in the book line,         among other things                                  Shakespeare            for your
self,                                me, ever your affec.                             brother,
        dear Liz. -- Believe

                                                                                                   T. H. Huxlev.

120         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, vm

      In December the Edinburgh chair was practically offered
to him undivided ; but by that time the London authorities
thought they had better make it worth his while to stay at
Jermyn Street, and with negotiations begun for this end he
refused to stand for Edinburgh. In the following spring,

however, he was again approached from Edinburgh -- not so

much to withdraw his refusal and again become a candidate,
as to let it be made known that he would accept the chair
if it were offered him. But his position in London was
now established ; and he preferred to live in London on a

bare sufficiency rather than to enjoy a larger income away
from the centre of things.

     Two letters to Tyndall, which refer to the division of
labour in the science reviews for the Westminster (see p.
92), indicate very clearly the high pressure at which Huxley

had already begun to work :--

                                                Tenby, South Wales,

                                                  Oct. 22, 1854.

    My dear Tyndall -- I was rejoiced to find you entertaining
Imy proposition at all. No one believes how hard you work more

than I, but was not going to be such a bad diplomatist as to put

Ithat at the head of my letter, and if I had thought that what
Iwant you to do involved any great accession thereto, I think

could not have mustered up the face to ask you. But really and

truly, so long as it is confined to our own department it is no great

affair. You make me laugh at the long face you pull about the
duties, based on my phrase. The fact
                                                you notice what you
                                        a
                                              a
                                                is,

                                                            it
                                                                   is

                                                                                  .
                                                                                       .

                                                                       I
like, and what you do not you leave undone, unless you get an
                                                                     book. The
editorial request to say something   ahbaonudts--aptalretaicsut lar    in mine--
whole affair entirely in your own
a

 I

         a
                      is

                          is
as went upon my principle of having row at starting.                 .

     Now here an equitable proposition. Look at my work.

have couple of monographs, odds and ends of papers for journals,

manual and some three courses of lectures to provide for this
         "My necessities are as great as thine," as Sir Philip
winter.

Sidney didn't say, so be brick, split the difference, and say you
                              a

will be ready for the April number.     will write and announce the
                                      I
fact to Chapman.
                                            it.
      What idiots we all are to toil and slave
                                           I
repent me of tempting you -- after all -- so        I
                                                           I

                                                               I

                                                                                if
                                                at this pace.               almost
                                                promise to           hold on

you really think you will be overdoing

     With you envy Francis his gastric energies.  feel have done
         I

1854 INVITED TO SUCCEED FORBES

for myself in that line, and am in for a life-long dyspeps. I have

not, now, nervous energy enough for stomach and brain both, and

if I work the latter, not even the fresh breezes of this place will
keep the former in order. That is a discovery I have made here,

and though highly instructive, it is not so pleasant as some other

physiological results that have turned up.

Chapman, who died of cholera, was a distant relative of my

man. The poor fellow vanished in the middle of an unfinished

article, which has appeared in the last Westminster, as his forlorn

vale ! to the world. After all, that is the way to die, better a

thousand   atimfaetsuotuhsanolddriavgeel.li--ngBeolfifevientomee,teernvietry   betwixt awake     and
asleep in                                                                     yours faithfully,
                                                                              T. H. Huxley.

On Tyndall consenting, he wrote again on the 29th :.--

I rejoice in having got you to put your head under my yoke,

and feel ready to break into a hand gallop on the strength of it.

    I have written to Chapman to tell him you only make an

experiment on your cerebral substance, whose continuance depends

on tenacity thereof.

     I didn't suspect you of being seduced by the magnificence of
the emolument, you Cincinnatus of the laboratory. I only sug

gested that as pay sweetens labour, a fortiori it will sweeten what
to you will be no labour.
      I'm not a miserable mortal  now --quite  the contrary.                  I never
am when I have too much to do, and my sage reflection was not
provoked by envy of the more idle. Only I do wish I could some

times ascertain the exact juste milieu of work which will suit, not

my head or will, these can't have too much ; but my absurd

stomach.

      The Edinburgh candidature, the adoption of his wider
scheme for the carrying out of the coast survey, and his

approaching marriage, are touched upon in the following
letters to Dr. Frederick Dyster 1 of Tenby, whose keen
interest in marine zoology was the starting-point of a warm

friendship with the rising naturalist, some fifteen years his
junior. He was strongly urged by the younger man to

complete and systematise his observations by taking in turn

1 It was to Dyster that Huxley owed his introduction in 1854 to F. D.
                         ewhderuitcefaisrtsint ogmn ethtMeaatypethoe6p,leen"hdeAoldtfiodJnunheiLsobc1ek8set55tK,oinh"gesWllpeh)y,atanodrKilnPaghteosrtleotyo
Maurice  (whose work in
Charles  Kingsley, whom
do you
         refer to?" he
Igraphic Kingsley ? I shall be right glad to find good men and true anywhere,

and will take your bail for any man. But the work must be critically done."

I 22          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                          CHAP. VIII

all the species of each genus of annelids found at Tenby,
and working them up into a series of little monographs
" which would be the best of all possible foundations for a
History of the British Annelida? " :--

                          To Dr. Dyster

                                                              Jan. 5, 1855.

     [He begins by confessing "a considerable liberty" he had been
taking with Dyster's name, in calling a joint discovery of this,

which he described in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal,

Protula Dysteri.]

    Are you very savage ? If so, you must go and take a walk

along the sands and see the slant rays of the sunset tipping the

rollers as they break on the beach ; that always made even me at

peace with    all the  Iwhoardld,anayndsuachforstoiuorrcieit  will you.         Chimney
      Truly,                                                  of consolation.
              I wish

pots are highly injurious to my morals, and my temper is usually

in proportion to the extent of my horizon.                                     All sorts of

    I have been swallowing oceans of disgust lately.

squabbles, some made by my own folly and others by the malice

of other people, and no great sea and sky to go out under, and be

alone and forget it all.

      You may have seen my name advertised by Reeve as about to

write a memoir of poor Forbes, to be prefixed to a collection of

his essays. I found that to be a mere bookseller's dodge on Reeve's
part, and when I made the discovery, of course we had a battle-
royal, and I have now wholly withdrawn from it.

    I find, however, that one's kind and generous friends imagine

it was an electioneering manoeuvre on my part for Edinburgh.

Imagine how satisfactory. I forget whether I told you that I had

been asked to stand for Edinburgh and have done so. Whether
I shall be appointed or not I do not know. So far as my own
wishes go, I am in a curiously balanced state of mind about it.
                                           lbifuet--I fdorreaEddinlebauvringgh
Many things make it     a desirable post,                                       London
                        Bedouin sort of                                         and no
and its freedom -- its
whistling on Sundays. Besides, if I go there, I shall have to give

Iup all my coast-survey plans, and all their pleasant concomitants.

      Apropos of Edinburgh feel much like the Irish hod-man who

betted his fellow he could not carry him up to the top of a house
in his hod. The man did but Pat turning round as he was set
                          it,
                                                 it,
down on the roof, said, "Ye've done                           sure enough, but, bedad,

I'd great hopes ye'd let me fall about three rounds from the

top." Bedad, I'm nearly at the top of the Scotch ladder, but

I've hopes.

                EFFLORESCENT PIETISM                                   123

    It is finally settled that the chair will not be divided. I told
them frankly I would not go if it were.

     Has Highly sent your books yet ?-- Ever yours faithfully,
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

                                        Jermyn Street, Feb. 13, 1855.

   My dear Dyster -- . . . I will do my best to help                   to
some alumni if the chance comes in my way, though, as you say, I
don't like him. I can't help it. I respect piety, and hope I have
some after my own fashion, but I have a profound prejudice against
Ithe efflorescent form of it.
                                        never yet found in people thoroughly

imbued with that pietism, the same notions of honour and straight
Iforwardness that obtain among men of the world. It may be
otherwise with                   , but  can't help my pagan prejudice. So

don't judge harshly of me thereanent.

    About Edinburgh, I have been going to write to you for days
past. I have decided on withdrawing from the candidature, and
Ihave done so. In fact the more thought of it the less I liked it.

They require nine months' lectures some four or five times a week,

which would have thoroughly used me up, and completely put a
stop to anything like original work ; and then there was a horrid

museum to be arranged, work I don't care about, and which would

have involved an amount of intriguing and heart-burning, and would

have required an amount of diplomacy to carry to a successful issue,
for which my temper and disposition are wholly unfitted.

    And then I felt above all things that it was for me an impos
ture. Here have I been fighting and struggling for years, sacrificing
everything to be a man of science, a genuine worker, and if I had
obtained the Edinburgh chair, I should have been in reality a mere

pedagogue and a man of science only in name. Such were my

notions, and if I hesitated at all and allowed myself to become a
candidate, it was only because I have other interests to consult

than my own. Intending to "range myself" one of these days

and become a respectable member of society, I was bound to con
Isider my material interests. And so should have been still a

candidate for Edinburgh had not the Government                  here  "prmoafetsesreiadl
                                                                the
themselves   unwilling to lose my       services,  adding
guarantee "  of an addition to my        income,   which,       though by no

means bringing it up to the point of Edinburgh, will still enable
Ime (das heisst " us ") to live comfortably here.
"  lustsmoufstthreenfloeushnc"e  the "pomps and vanities," but  all those other
                                 which may beseem a gentleman   may be reason

ably gratified.

    Don't you think I have been wise in my Hercules choice ?
After all I don't lay claim to any great merit, seeing it was any
thing but certain I should get Edinburgh.

124              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, v111

     The best of all is that I have every reason to believe that

Government will carry out my scheme for a coast survey, so happily

Iand pleasantly begun at Tenby last year.                                       believe you

     The final arrangements are almost complete, and

may make up your mind to have four months of me next year.
Tenby shall be immortalised and Jcnkyn 1 converted into a philo

Isopher. By the way, think the best way would be to retain the
Ishells till come. My main purpose is to have in them a catalogue

of what Tenby affords.

     Pray give my kind remembrances to Mrs. Dyster, and believe
                                                                             T. H. Huxley.
me, ever yours,

                                                                             April I, 1855.

    My dear Dyster --By all that's good, your last note, which lies
before me, has date a month ago. I looked at it just now, and

became an April fool on the instant.

     All the winds of March, however, took their course through my                             a is,
thorax and eventuated in lectures. At least that is all the account

I can give to myself of the time, and an unprofitable account it

for everything but one's exchequer.

     So far as knowledge goes            it                     mere prodigality spending one's

                                            I is
capital and adding nothing, for find the physical exertion of

lecturing quite unfits me for much else. Fancy how last Friday was

spent.  went to Jermyn Street in the morning with the intention
a
of preparing for my afternoon's lecture. People came talking to
me up to within quarter of an hour of the time, so had to makeIIa
        I
  dash without preparation. Then had to go home to prepare
                                   a                            I            II

                                                                         in
for second lecture in the evening, and after that                                went to

soiree, and got home about one o'clock the morning.
         go on telling myself this won't do, but to no purpose.

     You will be glad to hear that my affairs here are finally settled,

and am regularly appointed an officer of the survey with the com
mission to work out the natural history of the coast.

     Edinburgh has been tempting me again, and in fact believe
                                                                                I
                                                                                    I
was within an ace of going there, but the Government definitely
I
    I

           I

                                      a

                            I

                                                             a
offering me this position, was too glad to stop where am.

        can make six hundred year here, and that being the case,                             aI

conceive have right to consult my own inclinations and the
interests of my scientific reputation. The coast survey puts

in my hands the finest opportunities that ever                               a  man had, and

        pity                          do not make myself something better than
it
     1 is

            a

               iIf

                                      I
Caledonian pedagogue.                    have in connection with my new post
     The great first scheme

      "Jenkyn was employed to collect shells, etc., at Tenby.                    He    is    often

alluded to as the Professor."

                     THE COAST SURVEY                                                  '25

is to work out the Marine Natural History of Britain, and to have
every species of sea beast properly figured and described in the

reports which I mean from time to time to issue. I can get all the
I Iengravings and all the printing want done, but of course am
not so absurd as to suppose I can work out all these things myself.

Therefore my notion is to seek in all highways and byways for

fellow -labourers. Busk will, I hope, supply me with figures and
descriptions of the British Polyzoa and Hydrozoa, and I have con
fidence in my friend, Mr. Dyster of Tenby (are you presumptuous
enough to say you know him ?) for the Annelids, if he won't object
to that mode of publishing his work. The Mollusks, the Crusta

ceans, and the Fishes, the Echinoderms and the Worms, will give

plenty of occupation to the other people, myself included, to say
nothing of distribution and of the recent geological changes, all of

Iwhich come within my programme.

     Did not tell you it was a fine field, and could the land o'

cakes give me any scope like this ?

                                                            April 9, 1855.

    My dear Dyster -- I didn't by any means mean to be so

sphinx-like in my letter, though you have turned out an CEdipus
                                        Ithme enanexttofe"wranmgoenthms y--setlfh,"at  "live
of the first water.    True it is that
cleanly and leave    off sack," within                                                 is to

say, if nothing happen to the good ship which is at present bearing

my  fiancee   homewards.    mortal -- more                            things --
    So far   as a restless
                                            or less aweary  of most
like myself can be made happy by any other human being, I believe
Iyour good wishes are safe of realisation ; at any rate, it will be my
fault if they are not, and     beg you never         to     im" aegffinloeresctehnatt  I
could confound the piety of    friendship with       the
                                                                                       "

variety.

    I hope to marry in July, and make my way down to Tenby
shortly afterwards, and I am ready to lay you a wager that your

vaticinations touching the amount of work that won't be done

don't come true.               for worms --(I  could        not  for  the              life
     So much for wives -- now

Iof me help the alliteration). I, as right reverend father in worms

and Bishop of Annelidae, do not think ought to interfere with my

most promising son, when a channel opens itself for the publication
Jof his labours. So do what you will apropos of             . If he does

not do the worms any better than he did the zoophytes, he won't

interfere with my plans.                                             I think it

    I shall be glad to see Mrs. Buckland's Echinoderm.

must be a    novelty by what   you say. She is a     v--erEy vjeorllyyopuersr,son,     but
             unutterable fear  of scientific women.
I have an

                                                     T. H. Huxley.

126           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                CHAP. VIII

                                                                May 6, 1855.

     My ship is not come home but is coming, and I have been in

a state of desperation at the continuous east winds. However,
Ito-day there is a westerly gale, and if it lasts I shall have news soon.
You may imagine that           am in an unsatisfactory state of mind

between this  and   lecturing  fi"vegotoimdses"  a week.   are  home  produce
               say  that the
    I beg to                                     I expect

Itransplanted (or sent a voyage as you do Madeira), and not foreign
growth by any means. But it is five years since we met,                       am

another man altogether, and if my wife be as much altered, we

shall need a new introduction. Correspondence, however active, is

a poor substitute for personal communication and tells one but

little of the inner life.

      Finally, on the eve of his marriage in July, Tyndall con
gratulates him on being appointed to deliver the next course

of Fullerian Lectures at the Royal Institution :--

     The fates once seemed to point to our connection in a distant

Iland : we are now colleagues at home, and can claim you as my

scientific brother. May the gods continue to drop fatness upon
you, and may your next great step be productive of all the felicity
which your warmest friends or your own rebellious heart can
desire.

                   CHAPTER IX

                                                  1855

Miss Heathorn and her parents reached England at the

beginning of May 1855, and took up their abode at 8
Titchfield Terrace, not far from Huxley's own lodgings and
his brother's house. One thing, however, filled Huxley with
dismay. Miss Heathorn's health had broken down utterly,
and she looked at death's door. All through the preceding
year she had been very ill ; she had gone with friends, Mr. and
Mrs. Wise, to the newly-opened mining-camp at Bathurst,
and she and Mrs. Wise were indeed the first women to
visit it ; returning to Sydney after rather a rough time,
she caught a chill, and being wrongly treated by a doctor
of the blood-letting, calomel-dosing school, she was reduced
to a shadow, and only saved by another practitioner, who
reversed the treatment just in time.

      In his letters to her, Huxley had not at first realised

the danger she had been in ; and afterwards tried to keep
her spirits up by a cheerful optimism that would only look

forward to their joyful union and many years of unbroken
happiness to atone for their long parting.

      But the reality alarmed him. He took her to one of
the most famous doctors of the day, as if merely a patient
he was interested in. Then as one member of the profession
to another, he asked him privately his opinion of the case.
" I give her six months of life," said ^Esculapius. " Well,
six months or not," replied Huxley, " she is going to be my
wife." The doctor was mightily put out. " You ought to
have told me that before." Of course, the evasive answer
in such a contingency was precisely what Huxley wished to

128

avoid. Happily another leading doctor held a much more
favourable opinion, and said that with care her strength
would come back, slowly but surely.

                                          14 Waverlev Place, Wednesday.

    My dear Hooker-- My wife and I met again on Sunday last,
Iand have established herself, her father and mother, close by me

here at 8 Titchfield Terrace, Regent's Park, and whenever you and

Mrs. Hooker are in this part of the world, and can find time to

I Icall there, you will find her anything but surprised to see you.
      God help me ! discover that am as bad as any young fool

who knows no better, and if the necessity for giving six lectures a
week did not sternly interfere, I should be hanging about her lady

I Iship's apron-strings all day. She is in very bad health, poor child,

and have some reason to be anxious, but have every hope she

will mend with care.                                          sits on allit,
      Oh this life ! " atra cura," as old Thackeray has
                                                               iIf
our backs and mingles with all our happiness. But                   go on

talking in this   --waEyveryoyuourws,ill  wonder  what        has come over my
philosophership.                                                 T. H. Huxley.

Black Care was still in the background, but had relaxed

her hold upon him. His spirits rose to the old point of

gaiety. He writes how he gives                            lively lecture to his
                                          it

                                                       a
students, and in the midst of Satan prompts him to crow
or howl --a temptation happily resisted. He makes atrocious

puns in bidding Hooker to the wedding, which took place

on July 21.

                                          Jermyn Street, July 1855.
                                                              ? 6.
Mv dear Hooker -- ought long since to have thanked you
I
        is I
                         I
in Thomson's name as well as my own for your Flora Indica.

Some day  promise myself much pleasure and profit from the

digestion of the Introductory Essay, which probably as much asis

my gizzard competent to convert into nutrition.

terminate my Baccalaureate and take my degree of M.A.trimony

(isn't that atrocious?) on Saturday, July 21. After the unhappy
criminals have been turned off, there will be refreshment provided
for the sheriffs, chaplain, and spectators. Will you come
                                                                    Don't

bore, but should much like to have you there.
if

    it
        is
              a

                    aI
    It was not large party that assembled at the George

Huxleys for the wedding, but all were life-long friends,

including, besides the Fanning clan and Mrs. Griffiths, an

                       HIS MARRIAGE                     129

old Australian ally, Hooker, Tyndall, and Dr. and Mrs.

Carpenter. There was none present but felt that abundant
happiness was at least well earned after eight years of trial,

and still more that its best guarantee was the firm loyalty
and devotion that had passed through so many dangers of

absence and isolation, so many temptations to renounce the

ideal course under stress of circumstance, only to emerge

strengthened and ennobled by the stern discipline of much

sacrifice.

Great as was his new happiness, he hardly stood in need
of Darwin's word of warning : " I hope your marriage will
not make you idle ; happiness, I fear, is not good for work."
Huxley could not sit idle for long. If he had no occupation
on hand, something worth investigation --and thorough in
vestigation -- was sure to catch
Hooker from Tenby :--             his  eye.  So he writes to

                       15 St. Jul1an's Terrace, Tenby,
                                       Aug. 16, 1855.

My dear Hooker-- I am so near the end of the honeymoon
Ithat I think it can hardly be immodest if emerge from private life
Iand write you a letter, more particularly as want to know some
Ithing.
            went yesterday on an expedition to see the remains of a

forest which exists between tidemarks at a place called Amroth,

near here.

    ISo far as can judge there can be no doubt that this really is a

case of downward movement. The stools of the trees are in their

normal position, and their roots are embedded and interwoven in a

layer of stiff blue clay, which lies immediately beneath the super

ficial mud of the shore. Layers of leaves, too, are mixed up with
the clay in other parts, and the bark of some of the trees is in

perfect preservation.  The condition of the wood is very curious.
It is like very hard cheese, so that you can readily cut slices with a

spade, and yet where more of the trunk has been preserved some

Iparts are very hard. The trees are, fancy, Beech and Oak.
ICould you identify slices if were to send you some ?

      Now it seems to me that here is an opportunity one does not
often have of getting some information about the action of sea water

Ion wood, and on the mode in which these vegetable remains may

become embedded, etc. etc., and want to get you to tell me

Iwhere can find information on submerged forests in general, so as

to see to what points one can best direct one's attention, and to

Isuggest any inquiries that may strike yourself.

         do not see how the stumps can occur in this position without

VOL. I                                       K

       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                 chap, ix

direct sinking of the land, and that such a sinking should have

occurred tallies very well with some other facts which I have

observed as to the nature of the bottom at considerable depths

here.

We had the jolliest cruise in the world by Oxford, Warwick,

Kenilworth, Stratford, Malvern, Ross, and the Wye, though it was

Ia little rainy, and though my wife's strength sadly failed at times.

      Still she was on the whole much better and stronger than had

any right to expect, and although I get frightened every now and

then, yet there can be no doubt that she is steadily though slowly

improving. I have no fears for the ultimate result, but her amend

ment will be a work of time. We have really quite settled down

into Darby and Joan, and I begin to regard matrimony as the

normal state of man. It's wonderful how light the house looks

when I come back weary with a day's boating to what it used

to do.                                           Pray give her

    I hope Mrs. Hooker is well and about again.

our very kind regards, and believe me, my dear HTo. oHke. r,Huevxelreyyo. urs,

     At Tenby he stayed on through August and September,
continuing his occupations of the previous summer, dredging

up specimens for his microscope, and working partly for his

own investigations, partly for the Geological Survey.

                      CHAPTER X

                      1855-1858

Up to his appointment at the School of Mines, Huxley's

work had been almost entirely morphological, dealing with

the Invertebrates.    His first investigations, moreover, had

been directed    not to species-hunting, but to working out the
real affinities  of little known orders, and thereby evolving a
philosophical    classification from the limbo of " Vermes " and
" Radiata."

     He had continued the same work by tracing homologies
of development in other classes of animals, such as the

Cephalous Mollusca, the Articulata, and the Brachiopods.

On these subjects, also, he had a good deal of correspondence
with other investigators of the same cast of mind, and even

when he did not carry conviction, the impression made by

his  arguments may    be judged    from the words of Dr.  Allman,
no   mean authority,  in a letter
                                   of May 2, 1852 :--

    I have thought over your arguments again and again, and while
I am the more convinced of their ingenuity, originality, and strength,
I Iyet feel ashamed to confess that too must exclaim "tenax

propositi." When was it otherwise in controversy?

     Other speculations arising out of these researches had
been given to the public in the form of lectures, notably
that on Animal Individuality at the Royal Institution in

1852.
      But after 1854, Paleontology and administrative work

began to claim much of the time he would willingly have
bestowed upon distinctly zoological research. His lectures on
Natural History of course demanded a good deal of first

132  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      CHAP. X

hand investigation, and not only occasional notes in his frag

mentary journals, but a vast mass of drawings now preserved
at South Kensington attest the amount of work he still

managed to give to these subjects. But with the exception
of the Hunterian Lectures of 1868, he only published one
paper on Invertebrates as late as 1 860 ; and only half a
dozen, not counting the belated " Oceanic Hydrozoa," be

tween 1856 and 1859. The essay on the Crayfish did
not appear until after he had left Jermyn Street and Pale
ontology for South Kensington.

      The " Method of Paleontology," published in 1856, was
the first of a long series of papers dealing with fossil creatures,
the description of which fell to him as Naturalist to the

Geological Survey. By 1 860 he had published twelve such

papers, and by 1871 twenty-six more, or thirty-eight in
sixteen years.

     It was a curious irony of fate that led him into this
position. He writes in his Autobiography that, when Sir
Henry de la Beche, the Director-General of the Geological

Survey, offered him the post Forbes vacated of Paleontolo

gist and Lecturer on Natural History,

     I refused the former point blank, and accepted the latter only
provisionally, telling Sir Henry that I did not care for fossils, and
that I should give                          as soon as I could
                     up Natural History                            get a
physiological post.                         for thirty-one years,  and a
                     But I held the office

large part of my work has been paleontological.

    Yet the diversion was not without great use. A wide

knowledge of paleontology offered a key to many problems
that were hotly debated in the years of battle following the

publication of the Origin of Species in 1859, as well as pro

viding fresh subject-matter for the lectures in which he con

tinued to give the lay world the results of his thought.
      On the administrative and official side he laid before

himself the organisation of the resources of the Museum of
Practical Geology as an educational instrument. This in

volved several years' work in the arrangement of the speci

mens, so as to illustrate the paleontological lectures, and the
writing of " introductions " to each section of the catalogue,
which should be a guide to the students. The " Method of

1856 MUSEUMS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT                             133

Paleontology " mentioned above served as the prefatory

essay to the whole catalogue, and was reprinted in 1869
by the Smithsonian Institute of Washington under the title

of Principles and Methods of Paleontology.
     This work led to his taking a lively interest in the

organisation of museums in general, whether private, such as

Sir Philip Egerton's, which he visited in 1856 ; local, such as
Warwick or Chester ; or central, such as the British Museum

or that at Manchester.

With regard to the British Museum, the question had

arisen of removing the Natural History collections from the

confined space and dusty surroundings of Great Russell

Street. A first memorial on the subject had been signed,

not only by many non-scientific persons, but also by a

number of botanists, who wished to see the British Museum

Herbarium, etc., combined with the more accessible and more

complete collections at Kew. Owing apparently to official

opposition, the Natural History sub-committee of the British

Museum Trustees advised a treatment of the Botanical

Department which commended itself to none of the lead

ing botanists. Consequently a number of botanists and

zoologists took counsel together and drew up a fresh

memorial from the strictly scientific point of view. Huxley
and Hooker took an active part in the agitation. " It is
no use," writes the former to his friend, " putting any faith

in the old buffers, hardened  as they are in trespasses        and

sin." And again :--

I see nothing for it but for you and I to constitute ourselves

into a permanent "Committee of Public Safety," to watch over

... Iwhat is being done and take measures with the advice of others
when necessary.  As for       and id genus omne, have never
expected anything but opposition from them. But I don't think it
is necessary to trouble one's head about such opposition. It may
be annoying and troublesome, but if we are beaten by it we deserve

to be. We shall have to wade through oceans of trouble and abuse,

Ibut so long as we gain our end, care not a whistle whether the

sweet voices of the scientific mob are with me or against me.

      According to Huxley's views a complete system de
manded a triple museum for each subject, Zoology and
Botany, since Geology was sufficiently provided for in

134             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     chap, x

Jermyn Street--one typical or popular, " in which all pro

minent forms or types of animals or plants, recent or fossil,

should be so displayed as to give the public an idea of the
vast extent and variety of natural objects, to diffuse a
general knowledge of the results obtained by science in their

investigation and classification, and to serve as a general
                                                      "
introduction    to the student  in  Natural  Science         the second
                                                          ;
scientific, " in which collections of all available animals and

plants and their parts, whether recent or fossil, and in a

sufficient number of specimens, should be disposed con

veniently for study, and to which should be exclusively
attached an appropriate library, or collection of books and
illustrations relating to science, quite independent of any
general library " ; the third economic, " in which economic

products, whether zoological or botanical, with illustrations

of the processes by which they are obtained and applied to

use, should be so disposed as best to assist the progress of

Commerce and the Arts." It demanded further a Zoological

and a Botanical Garden, where the living specimens could be

studied.

     Some of these institutions existed, but were not under
                Others were already begun -- e.g. that of
state control.

Economic Zoology at South Kensington ; but the value of

the botanical collections was minimised by want of concen

tration, while as to zoology "the British Museum contains a

magnificent collection of recent and fossil animals, the property
of the state, but there is no room for its proper display and
no accommodation for its proper study. Its official head

...reports directly neither to the Government nor to the govern
ing body of the institution.        It is true that the people

stroll through the enormous collections of the British Museum,

but the sole result is that they are dazzled and confused
by the multiplicity of unexplained objects, and the man of

science is deprived thrice a week of the means of advancing

knowledge."

     The agitation of 1859-60 bore fruit in due season, and
within twenty years the ideal here sketched was to a great

extent realised, as any visitor to the Natural History Museum

at South Kensington can see for himself.
     The same principles are reiterated in his letter of

1856 SCHEME FOR A MUSEUM                                                 135

January 25, 1868, to the Commissioners of the Manchester

Natural History Society, who had asked his advice as to the
erection of a museum. But to the principles he adds a
number of most practical suggestions as to the actual struc
ture of the building, which are briefly appended in abstract.
The complement to this is a letter of 1872, giving advice
as to a local museum at Chester, and one of 1859 describ
ing the ideal catalogue for a geological museum.

The Commissioners of the Manchester                      Jan. 25, 1868.
           Natural History Society.

                              Scheme for a Museum.

--Objects.        1.  The public exhibition of a collection  of specimens

large enough to illustrate all the most important truths of Natural

History, but not so extensive as to weary and confuse ordinary

visitors.

2. The accessibility of this collection to the public.

     3. The conservation of all specimens not necessary for the pur
pose defined in (1) in a place apart.

     4. The accessibility of all objects contained in the museum to
the curator and to scientific students, without interference with the

public or by the public.
    Thorough exclusion of dust and dirt from the specimens.
5.  A provision of space for workrooms, and, if need be, lecture-
6.

rooms.            --  A  big  hall (350 x 40 x 30) with  narrower halls  on
      Principle.
either side, lighted from the top. The central hall for the public,
the others for the curators, etc. The walls, of arches upon piers

about 15 ft. high, bearing on girders a gallery 5 ft. wide in the
public room, and 3 ft. 6 in. in the curators'.

     The cases should be larger below, 5 ft. deep, and smaller above,
2 ft. deep, with glass fronts to the public, and doors on the curators'

side.                    specimens --e.g. a whale --the case could expand

     For very large

into the curators' part without encroaching on the public part, so

as to keep the line of windows regular.

Specimens of the Vertebrata, illustrations of Physical Geography

and Stratigraphical Geology, should be placed below.

The Invertebrata, Botanical and Mineralogical specimens in the

galleries.                                                   to the roof,

     The partition to be continued above the galleries
thus excluding all the dust raised by the public.

136                           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, x

      Space for students should be provided in the curators' rooms.
      Storage should be ample.

    A museum of this size gives twice as much area for exhibition
purposes as that offered by all the cases in the present museum.

                                                              Athen^um Club,

                                                                                  Dec. 8, 1872.

   IDear Sir-- regret that your letter has but just come into my

hands, so that my reply cannot be in time for your meeting, which,

I understand you to say, was to be held yesterday.
    I have no hesitation whatever in expressing the opinion that,

except in the case of large and wealthy towns (and even in their
                               a Local    Museum should       be exactly          what its name
cimaspeliesp,rimvaizr.ily)",              illustrating local   Geology,           local Botany,
                              Local " --

local Zoology, and local Archaeology.
     Such a museum, if residents who are interested in these sciences

take proper pains, may be brought to a great degree of perfection

and be unique of its kind. It will tell both natives and strangers

exactly what they want to know, and possess great scientific interest

and importance. Whereas the ordinary lumber-room of clubs from

New  cZoenaclahnds,heHllsin--dowohoidoslhs,allshdaerkscs'ribteeetthh,emwaenagryy  monkeys,    scorpions,
and                                                                                inutility
                                                                                              of it ? It

is really worse than nothing, because it leads the unwary to look for

the objects of science elsewhere than under their noses. What

they want    to    know is     that their  "America           is here," as Wilhelm
Meister has   it.             faithfully,                        T. H. Huxley.
                   -- Yours

     Alfred Walker, Esq., Nant-y-Glyn, Colwyn Bay.

             To the Rev. P. Brodie of Warwick

                                                                 Jermvn St. Oct. 14, 1859.

    My dear Mr. Brodie -- I am sorry Ito say that can as yet

send you no catalogue of ours. The remodelling of our museum
is only just completed, and only the introductory part of my cata

I Ilogue is written. When it is printed you shall have an early copy.
    If may make a suggestion should say that a catalogue of

your museum for popular use should commence with a sketch of
the topography and stratigraphy of the county, put into the most
intelligible language, and illustrated by reference to mineral speci
mens in the cases, and to the localities where sections showing the

Isuperposition of such and such beds is to be seen. After that

think should come a list of the most remarkable and interesting
fossils, with reference to the cases where they are to be seen ; and
under the head of each a brief popular account of the kind of

PRELIMINARY LECTURES                                                     137

animal or plant which the thing was when alive, its probable habits,

and its meaning and importance as a member of        the  great  series  of

successive forms of life. -- Yours very faithfully,T. H. Huxley.

      The reorganisation of the course of studies at Jermyn

Street, fully sketched out in the 1857 notebook, involved
two very serious additions to his work over and above what
was required of him by his appointment as Professor. He

found his students to a great extent lacking in the know
ledge of general principles necessary to the comprehen

sion of the special work before them. To enable them
to make the best use of his regular lectures, he offered
them in addition a preliminary evening course of nine
lectures each January, which he entitled " An Introduction
to the Study of the Collection of Fossils in the Museum of

Practical Geology." These lectures summed up what he

afterwards named Physiography, together with a general
sketch of fossils and their nature, the classification of animals

and plants, their distribution at various epochs, and the

principles on which they are constructed, illustrated by the
examination of some animal, such as a lobster.

      The regular lectures, fifty-seven in number, ran from
February to April and from April to June, with fortnightly
examinations during the latter period, six in number. I

take the scheme from his notebook :-- " After prolegomena,

the physiology and morphology of lobster and dove ; then
through Invertebrates, Anodon, Actinia, and Vorticella
Protozoa, to Molluscan types. Insects, then Vertebrates.
Supplemented Paleontologically by the demonstrations of the
selected types in the cases ; twelve Paleozoic, twelve Mesozoic
and Cainozoic," by his assistants. " To make the course

complete there should be added (1) A series of lectures on

Species, practical discrimination and description, modification
by conditions and distribution ; (2) Lectures on the elements
of Botany and Fossil Plants."

      This reorganisation of his course went hand in hand
with his utilisation of the Jermyn Street Museum for paleon-

tological teaching, and all through 1857 he was busily

working at the Explanatory Catalogue.

      Moreover, in 1855 he had begun at Jermyn Street his

138                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  CHAP. X

regular courses of lectures to working men -- lectures which

impressed those qualified to judge as surpassing even his

class lectures. Year after year he gave the artisans of his

best, on  the          principle    enunciated  thus early in a letter of
February   27,          1855, to
                                    Dyster --

atLonedcgtiIuvhereeersnhcwelroIaesy.eshoaldIarewtpaogrnortesbpaettehceatfunawsctaosbrkoofifmonrgisntoachmletaimeossne--sPuettnohotapotulent'pdshheeyrLssLeitcoacarntldudr)vetirhIstauate(mPSociaspiebunotlahcureet

base of   --allnootthebre,caaunsde  that they  are to be  clean   and temperate and     all
the rest                             fellows   in black   with   white ties tell them
                                                                                        so,

mbuut stbeocbaeuyse"  these  are plain and     patent     laws   of nature  which they
                      under  penalties."
     I am sick of the dilettante middle class, and mean to try what
I can do with these hard-handed fellows who live among facts.
You will be with me, I know.

And again on May 6, 1855 :--                                                         .

     I am glad your lectures went off so well. They were better
                                                                                point of
                                                                 although in
                                                                                        am
                                                                 I could wish.
Iattended than mine [the Preliminary Course],

earnestness and attention my audience was all

--nowonegiovifnwghaat  course of the same kind to working men exclusively
                       we call our series of " working men's lectures," con
sisting of six given in turn by each Professor. The theatre holds

600, and is crammed full.

    I believe in the fustian, and can talk better to it than to any

          of gauze and Saxony ; and to a
          would willingly give some when
Iamount                                                   fustian audience (but  to     that
only) I                                                     come to Tenby.

     The corresponding movement set going by F. D.

Maurice also claimed his interest, and in 1857 he gave his
first address at the Working Men's College to an audience,

as he notes, of some fifty persons, including Maurice himself.

     Other work of importance was connected with the Royal

Institution. He had been elected to deliver the triennial

course as Fullerian Professor, and for his subject in 1856-57

chose Physiology and Comparative Anatomy; in 1858, the

Principles of Biology.                                    additional " grist to
                                                          As he wrote in 1 890
      He was extremely glad of the                                                      the
mill " brought in by these lectures.
                                                                                        :--

     I have good reason to know what difference a hundred a year

makes when your income is not more than four or five times that.

1858 SCIENCE IN THE ' SATURDAY REVIEW                                                      139

I Iremember when was candidate for the Fullerian professorship

some twenty-three years ago, a friend of mine asked a wealthy

manager to support me. He promised, but asked the value of the

Iappointment, and                     told,  said, "Well, but                      of a
                                      "      suppose he paid
hundred a year to
                               when                             what's the use
                               him ?                           his butler that.

A further attempt to organise scientific work throughout

the country and make its results generally known, dates from

this time. Huxley, Hooker, and Tyndall had discussed,

early in 1858, the possibility of starting a Scientific Review,
which should do for science what the Quarterly or the West

minster did for literature. The scheme was found not to be

feasible at the time, though it was revived in another form

in 1860 ; so in the meanwhile it was arranged that science

should be laid before the public every fortnight, through the

medium     of a scientific             column  pirnopthoesaSl a:--turday  Review.  The
following   letter bears              on this

                                                                          April 20, 1858.

My dear Hooker --Before the dawn of the proposal for the

ever-memorable though not-to-be Scientific Review, there had been
some talk of one or two of us working the public up for science

Ithrough the Saturday Review. Maskelyne (you know him, suppose)

was the suggester of the scheme, and undertook to talk to the

ISaturday people about it.
        thought the whole affair had dropped through, but yesterday

Maskelyne came to me and to Ramsay with definite propositions

from the Saturday editor.
     He undertakes to put in a scientific article in the intermediate

part between Leaders and Reviews once a fortnight if we will supply
him. He is not to mutilate or to alter, but to take what he gets

and be thankful.

     The writers to select their own subjects. Now the question
Will seven or eight of us, representing different sciences, join together
                                                                          ?
                                                                                         is,
and undertake to supply at least one article in three months Once

fortnight would want a minimum of six articles in three months,
a

          if

                        is
so that there were six, each man must supply one.

Sylvester talked of for Mathematics.                           am going to write to
                                               I
                                                  I
Tyndall about doing Physics. Maskelyne and perhaps Frankland                               ;
will take Chemistry and Mineralogy. You and might do Biology

Ramsay, Geology Smyth, Technology.;
     This looks to me like very feasible plan, not asking too much
                                      a

of anyone, and yet giving all an opportunity of saying what he has

to say.

140           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  CHAP. X

     Besides this the Saturday would be glad to get Reviews from us.

     If all those mentioned agree to join, we will meet somewhere

and discuss plans.

     Let me have a line          to                say  what   you  think, and believe me,
ever yours faithfully,
                                                                          T. H. Huxley.

      In 1858 he read three papers at the Geological and two
at the Linnean ; he lectured (February 15) on Fish and
Fisheries at South Kensington, and on May 21 gave a
Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution on " The

Phenomena of Gemmation." He wrote an article for Todd's

Cyclopaedia, on the Tegumentary Organs, an elaborate paper,
as Sir M. Foster says, on a histological theme, to which, as
to others of the same class on the Teeth and the Corpuscula
Tactus {Q.J. Micr. Sci. 1853-4), he had been "led probably
by the desire, which only gradually and through lack of

fulfilment left him, to become a physiologist rather than a

naturalist."

     No less important was his more general work for science.

Physiological study in England at this time was dominated
by transcendental notions. To put first principles on a

sound experimental basis was the aim of the new leaders of

scientific  t1h8ou5g8h--t.   To                    this end    Huxley   made two contribu
tions in                                           on the      general  subject of the cell
                            one

theory, the other on the particular question of the develop

ment of the skull. "In a striking ' Review of the Cell

Theory,' " says Sir M. Foster, " which appeared in the British

and Foreign Medical Review in 1858, a paper which more

than one young physiologist at the time read with delight,

and which even to-day may be studied with no little profit,
he, in this subject as in others, drove the sword of rational

inquiry through the heart of conceptions, metaphysical and

transcendental, but dominant."

     Of this article Professor E. Ray Lankester also writes :--

     . . . Indeed it is a fundamental study in morphology. The

extreme interest and importance of the views put forward in that
article may be judged of by the fact that although it is forty years
since it was published, and although our knowledge of cell structure

has made immense progress during those forty years, yet the main

creosnuteltntoiofnorgoaf ntishaattionar--ticlein,  viz. that   cells are not the cause but the
                                                   fact, are,  as he says, to the tide of life

1858 THEORY OF THE VERTEBRATE SKULL

wthheatlivthineglinseeao--f sisheellsvenandnowweebdesinogn  the sea-shore is to the   tide of
                                                            reasserted, and in a     slightly

modified form is by very many cytologists admitted as having more
truth in it than the opposed view and its later outcomes, to the

effect that the cell is the unit of life in which and through which

alone living matter manifests its activities.

     The second was his Croonian Lecture of 1858, "On the
Theory of the Vertebrate Skull," in which he demonstrated
from the embryological researches of Rathke and others, that
after the first step the whole course of development in the
segments of the skull proceeded on different lines from that
of the vertebral column ; and that Oken's imaginative theory
of the skull as modified vertebrae, logically complete down

to a strict parallel between the subsidiary head-bones and
the limbs attached to the spine, outran the facts of a definite

structure common to all vertebrates which he had observed.1
      With the demolition of Oken's theory fell the super

structure raised by its chief supporter, Owen, " archetype "

and all.

     It was undoubtedly a bold step to challenge thus openly
the man who was acknowledged as the autocrat of science in

Britain. Moreover, though he had long felt that on his own

subjects he was Owen's master, to begin a controversy was

contrary to his deliberate practice. But now he had the
choice of submitting to arbitrary dictation or securing himself

1 " Following up Rathke, he strove to substitute for the then dominant

fantastic doctrines of the homologies of the cranial elements advocated by Owen,
sounder views based on embryological evidence. He exposed the futility of

attempting to regard the skull as a series of segments, in each of which might be

recognised all the several parts of a vertebra, and pointed out the errors of
trusting to superficial resemblances of shape and position. He showed, by the
history of the development of each, that, though both skull and vertebral column

are segmented, the one and the other, after an early stage, are fashioned on lines
so different as to exclude all possibility of regarding the detailed features of each
as mere modifications of a type repeated along the axis of the body. ' The

spinal column and the skull start from the same primitive condition, whence they
immediately begin to diverge.' ' It may be true to say that there is a primitive
identity of structure between the spinal or vertebral column and the skull ; but it

is no more true that the adult skull is a modified vertebral column than it would

be to affirm that the vertebral column is modified skull.' This lecture marked

an epoch in England in vertebrate morphology, and the views enunciated in it

carried forward, if somewhat modified, as they have been, not only by Huxley's

subsequent researches and by those of his disciples, but especially by the splendid
        of Gegenbaur,                            the views of the anatomists  of to-day."
work    M. Foster,      are still, in the main,   Notice of T. H. Huxley.
                       Royal Society Obituary
-- Sir

142  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y  chap, x

from further aggressions by dealing a blow which would
weaken the authority of the aggressor. For the growing

antagonism between him and Owen had come to a head

early in the preceding year, when the latter, taking advantage
of the permission to use the lecture-theatre at Jermyn Street

for the delivery of a paleontological course, unwarrantably
assumed the title of Professor of Paleontology at the School
of Mines, to the obvious detriment of Huxley's position
there. His explanations not satisfying the council of the
School of Mines, Huxley broke off all personal intercourse

with him.

                    CHAPTER XI

                    1857-1858

Throughout this period his health was greatly tried

by the strain of his work and life in town. Headache !

haudM--nepaiday.sNd.s"aeoicdntHhyelg!ep1Aoco8ontc5uddih8rseo.nf"hwoadisregriacAimrafneinlnu:pddce--ha,a.t"sn""euMdAdcpahb"rrnceio2ledhtn1eet.1v--r.ii--lei3lnesT0d.oU.--t"oanhtseahV:ba--olece"iachD"ereFtlliy,oeettsbogispn.o.a"cr1a1to21pu..o"at--.f"b"3l1eU"81s5.H1e--a73del,l.

would come in thoroughly used up after lecturing twice on

the same day, as frequently happened, and lie wearily on

one sofa ; while his wife, whose health was wretched, matched
him on the other. Yet he would go down to a lecture feel

                      to deliver                                                would
                    successfully                                              nervous
       it
                                                     it,
ing utterly unable                --                      and, once started,
                                                        at what cost of
carry  through

energy was known only to those two at home.
      But there was another branch of work, that for the

Geological Survey, which occasionally took him out of

London, and the open-air occupation and tramping from

place to place did him no little good. Thus, through the

greater part of September and October 1856 he ranged the
coasts of the Bristol Channel from Weston to Clovelly, and
from Tenby to Swansea, preparing a " Report on the Recent
Changes of Level in the Bristol Channel." "You can't
                                                          " how well
think," he writes from Braunton on October
               I

                     I

                                                                            3,

                                                                         I
am, so long as walk eight or ten miles a day and don't

work too much, but find fifteen or sixteen miles my limit

for comfort."

For many years after this his favourite mode of recruit

144             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                   chap, x1

ing from the results of a spell of overwork was to take a

short walking tour with a friend. In April 1857 he is off
for a week to Cromer; in 1860 he goes with Busk and

Hooker for Christmas week to Snowdon ; another time he

is manoeuvred off by his wife and friends to Switzerland

with Tyndall.

     In Switzerland he spent his summer holidays both in

1856 and 1857, in the latter year examining the glaciers
with Tyndall scientifically, as well as seeking pleasure by

the ascent of Mont Blanc. As fruits of this excursion were
published late in the same year, his " Letter to Mr. Tyndall

on the Structure of Glacier Ice" {Phil. Mag. xiv. 1857), and

the paper in    the Philosophical     Transactions   --of    the   Royal
Society, which                     against his will        in the   joint
                appeared -- much

names of himself and Tyndall.     Of these   he wrote      in      1893
in answer to an inquiry on the  subject :--

    By the Observations on Glaciers I imagine you refer to a short

paper published in Phil. Mag. that embodied results of a little
bit of work of my own. The Glacier paper in the Phil. Trans, is
essentially and in all respects Professor Tyndall's. He took up
glacier work in consequence of a conversation at my table, and we

Iwent out to Switzerland together, and of course talked over the

matter a good deal. However, except for my friend's insistence,

Ishould not have allowed my name to appear as joint author, and I

doubt whether ought to have yielded. But he is a masterful man

and over-generous.

     And in a letter to Hooker he writes :--

    IBy the way, you really must not associate me with Tyndall and

talk about our theory. My sole merit in the matter (and for that
do take some credit) is to have set him at work at for the only
                                      is I if

                                                     if it,

                                                                          is
                                                                                      a
suggestion  made, viz. that the veined structure was analogous to
            it I
                   I iIf
his artificial cleavage phenomena, has turned out to be quite wrong.
      Tyndall fairly made me put my name to that paper, and would

have had first          would have let him, but people go on ascrib

ing to me any share in his admirable work shall have to make
public protest. All am content to share the row, there
                                                                   to

be one.

     The following letters to Hooker and Tyndall touch upon

his Swiss trips of 1856 and 1857 --
                                   :

                IN SWITZERLAND                                      M5

                                             Berne, Sept. 3, 1856.

I send you a line hence, having forgotten to write from Inter

laken, whence we departed this morning.
The Weissthor expedition was the most successful thing you

can imagine. We reached the Riffelberg   in 11J   hours, the first six
                                         life in  the climbing way,
being the hardest work I ever had in my
Iand the last five carrying us through the most glorious sight ever

witnessed. During the latter part of the day there was not a cloud

on the whole Monte Rosa range, so you may imagine what the

Matterhorn and the rest of them looked like from the wide plain of
neve just below the Weissthor. It was quite a new sensation, and

I Iwould not have missed it for any amount ; and besides this had

an opportunity of examining the neve at a very great height. A

regularly stratified section, several hundred feet high, was exposed

on the Cima di Jazi, and I was convinced that the Weissthor would

be a capital spot for making observations on the neve and on other

correlative matters. There are no difficulties in the way of getting

up to it from the Zermatt side, tough job as it is from Macugnaga,
and we might readily rig a tent under shelter of the ridge. That
would lick old Saussure into fits. All the Zermatt guides put the

S. Theodul pass far beneath the Weissthor in point of difficulty ;

and you may tell Mrs. Hooker that they think the S. Theodul easier

Ithan the Monte Moro. The best of the joke was that lost my

way in coming down the Riffelberg to Zermatt the same evening,

so that altogether I had a long day of it. The next day I walked

Ifrom Zermatt to Visp (recovering Baedeker by the way), but my

shoes were so knocked to pieces that got a blister on my heel.

Next day Voiture to Susten, and then over Gemmi to Kandersteg,
Iand on Thursday my foot was so queer I was glad to get a retour
to Interlaken.  found most interesting and complete evidences of

old moraine deposits all the way down the Leuk valley into the

Rhine valley, and I believe those little hills beyond Susten are old
terminal moraines too. On the other side I followed moraines

down to Frutigen, and great masses of glacial gravel with boulders,

nearly to the Lake of Thun.

My wife is better, but anything but strong.

                             Chamounix, Aug. 16, 1857.

     My wife sends me intelligence of the good news you were so

kind as to communicate to her. I need not tell you how rejoiced
I am that everything has gone on well, and that your wife is safe

and well. Offer her my warmest congratulations and good wishes.

I have made one matrimonial engagement for Noel already, other
Iwise would bespeak the hand of the young lady for him.

VOL. I                                            L

146                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              chap, x1

      It has been raining cats and dogs these two days, so that we

have been unable to return to our headquarters at the Montanvert

which we left on Wednesday for the purpose of going up Mont

Blanc.          Tyndall (who        heavserbesacwom--esoontheat  of the most active       and
d"acraint g"  mountaineers you                                    we have christened      him
              ; and our guide said the other day, " II va plus fort qu'un
mouton. II faut lui mettre une sonnette ") had set his heart on the
performance of this feat (of course with purely scientific objects),
and had equally made up his mind not to pay five -and -twenty

pounds for the gratification. So we had one guide and took two

porters in addition as far as the Grands Mulets. He is writing to

you,  toapn--d  will tell you himself    what   happened         to those who reached
the             to wit, himself, Hirst,    and  the guide.
                                                                   I found that three

Idays in Switzerland had not given me my Swiss legs, and conse

quently remained at the Grands Mulets, all alone in my glory,

and for some eight hours in a great state of anxiety, for the three did

Inot return for about that period after they were due.
         was there on a pinnacle like St. Simon Stylites, and nearly
as dirty as that worthy saint must have been, but without any of his

Iother claims to angelic assistance, so that really did not see, if
Ithey had fallen into a crevasse, how was to help either them or

myself. They came back at last, just as it was growing dusk, to
my inexpressible relief, and the next day we came down here --

such a set of dirty, sun-burnt, snow-blind wretches as you never

saw.

      We heartily wished you were with us. What we shall do next

I Ineither know nor care, as have placed myself entirely under
ICommodore Tyndall's orders ; but suppose we shall be three or
four days more at the Montanvert, and then make the tour of Mont
IBlanc. I have tied up six pounds in one end of my purse, and
Iwhen have no more than that             shall come back. Altogether I

Idon't feel in the least like the father of a family j no more would
you if         you  "  were here.       The habit of     carrying  a  pack,  suppose,
              the      quiver full       arrows " feel  light.
makes                               of

                                                                 115 Esplanade, Deal,

                                                                          Sept. 3, 1857.

      My dear Tyndall --I don't consider myself returned until

next Wednesday, when the establishment of No. 14 will reopen on

Iits accustomed scale of magnificence, but don't mind letting you
Iknow am in the flesh and safe back.

    The tour round Mont Blanc was a decided success ; in fact, I had
only to regret you were not with me. The grand glacier of the Allele
Blanche and the view of Mont Blanc from the valley of Aosta
Iwere alone worth all the trouble.
                                                        had only one wet day, and
Ithat spent on the Brenon Glacier ; for, in spite of all good resolu

1857 THE BRENON GLACIER                                                         147

tions to the contrary, I cannot resist poking into the glaciers when
Iever have a chance. You will be interested in my results, which
Iwe shall soon, hope, talk on together at length.
    IAs
          suspected, Forbes has           tmheade"    a most   "egorfegtihoeus     blunder.
What he  speaks of and figures as                   structure                   Brenon is

nothing but a peculiar arrangement of entirely superficial dirt bands,
dependent on the structure, but not it. The true structure is singularly

beautiful and well marked in the Brenon, the blue veins being very

close set, and of course wholly invisible from a distance of a hundred

yards, which is less than that of the spot whence Forbes' view of

Ithe (supposed) structure is taken.

        saw another wonderful thing in La Brenon. About the middle

of its length there is a step like this of about 20 or 30 feet in
height. In the lower part (B) the structural planes are vertical ; in
I Ithe upper (A) they dip at a considerable angle.
                                                               thought had

found a case of unconformability, indicating a slip of one portion of
the glacier over another, but when I came to examine the inter
Imediate region (X) carefully, found the structural planes at every
intermediate angle, and consequently a perfect transition from the

one to the other.

    I returned by Aosta, the great St. Bernard, and the Col de

Balme. Old Simond was quite affectionate in his discourse about

you, and seemed quite unhappy because you would not borrow his
money. He had received your remittance, and asked me to tell

I Iyou so. He was distressed at having forgotten to get a certificate
from you, so said in mine                         was quite sure you were well

satisfied with him.

    On our journey he displayed his characteristic qualities, Je ne

sais pas being the usual answer to any topographical inquiries with

a total absence of nerve, and a general conviction that distances

were very great and that the weather would be bad. However, we

got on very well, and I was sorry to part with him.
    I came home by way of Neuchatel, paying a visit to the Pierre

Ia Bot, which have long wished to see. My financial calculations

I Iwere perfect in theory, but nearly broke down in practice, inasmuch

as was twice obliged to travel first-class when calculated on

second. The result was that my personal expenses between Paris and
ILondon amounted to 1.50 ! ! and I arrived at my own house hungry
and with a remainder of a few centimes.                  should think that your

fate must have been similar.

      Many thanks    for   --wrEitvinegr  to my   wife.  She sends her kindest
remembrances to      you.                 yours,                       T. H. H.

     The year 1857 was the last in which Huxley apparently
had time to go so far in journal-writing as to draw up a

balance-sheet at the year's end of work done and work

         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             chap, xi

undone. Though he finds " as usual a lamentable difference

between agenda and acta ; many things proposed to be done
not done, and many things not thought of finished," still there

is enough noted      to satisfy  hmisoslet cteunreersg--eticsixpteyo-spilxe.     Mention
has already been     made of                                                  at Jermyn

Street, twelve Fullerian, and as many more to prepare for the

next year's course ; seven to working men, and one at the Royal
Institution, together with the rearrangement of specimens

at the Jermyn Street Museum, and the preparation of the

Explanatory Catalogue, which this year was published to
the extent of the Introduction and the Tertiary collections.

To these may be added examinations at the London Uni

versity, where he had succeeded Dr. Carpenter as examiner

in Physiology and Comparative Anatomy in 1856, reviews,

translations, a report on Deep Sea Soundings, and ten

scientific memoirs.

The most important of the unfinished work consists of

the long-delayed Oceanic Hydrozoa, the Manual of Compara
tive Anatomy, and a report on Fisheries. The rest of the
unfinished programme shows the usual commixture of tech

nical studies in anatomy and paleontology, with essays on
the philosophical and educational bearings of his work. On
the one hand are memoirs of Daphnia, Nautilus, and the

Herring, the affinities of the Paleozoic Crustacea, the Asci-

dian Catalogue and Positive Histology ; on the other, the
Literature of the Drift, a review of the present state of

philosophical anatomy, and a scheme for arranging the

Explanatory Catalogue to serve as an introductory text

book to the Jermyn Street lectures and the paleontological
                     Here, too, would fall a proposed " Letter
demonstrations.

on the Study of Comparative      Anatomy," to   do for                        those
subjects what Henslow had        done in his   " Letter                       " for

Botany.

In addition to the fact of his being forced to take up

Paleontology, it was perhaps the philosophic breadth of

view with which he regarded his subject at any time, and the
desire of getting to the bottom of each subsidiary problem

arising from that made him for many years seem conit,
stantly to spring aside from his own subject, to fly off at a

tangent from the line in which he was assured of unrivalled



            /,t.M, '.I
                   · 1 .,

                           .

!,'s tT"t,

                                              'I
                              , ' I.

r- ' , t

          i

                  RECOGNITION ABROAD                           149

success did he but devote to it his undivided powers. But

he was prepared to endure the charge of desultoriness with
equanimity. In part, he was still studying the whole field
of biological science before he would claim to be a master in

one department ;  in part, he could not yet tell       to what post
he might succeed                                       expected to
                   when he left -- as he fully
leave -- the professorship at Jermyn Street.

One characteristic of his early papers should not pass

unnoticed. This was his familiarity with the best that had

been written on his subjects abroad as well as in England.
Thoroughness in this respect was rendered easier by the fact

that he read French and German with almost as much

facility as his mother tongue. " It is true, of course, that
scientific men read French and German before the time of

Huxley ; but the deliberate consultation of all the authorities

available has been maintained in historical succession since
Huxley's earliest papers, and was absent in the papers of his
early contemporaries." *

      About this time his activity in several branches of science

began to find recognition from scientific societies at home

and abroad. In 1 8 5 7 he was elected honorary member of

the Microscopical Society of Giessen ; and in the same

year, of a more important body, the Academy of Breslau

(Imperialis Academia     Caesariana  Naturae     Curiosorum).  He

writes to Hooker :--

                         14 Waverley Place, April 3, 1857.

Having subsided from standing upon my head -- which was
the immediate causation of your correspondence about the co-
Iextension
I Iing long                                            their thunder
tiItmlepw. eAllca!)--d.  Caes. Nat. Cur. (don't  know  on the 4th of
                         have to say that  was   born
IMay of the year 1825, whereby have now more or less mis-spent

thirty-one years and a bittock, nigh on thirty-two.

   IFurthermore, my locus natalis    is Ealing, in     the   co"ucnutryiouosf
                                     very obliging   of the
Middlesex. Upon my word, it is
naturals," and must say wholly surprising and unexpected.
    I shall hold up my head immensely to-morrow when (blessed be
Ithe Lord) give my last Fullerian.

    IAmong other things, am going to take Cuvier's crack case of

the 'Possum of Montmartre as an illustration of my views.

    I wondered what had become of you, but the people have come

1 P. Chalmers Mitchell in Natural Science, August 1895.

            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY          CHAP. XI

Italking about me this last lecture or two, so supposed you had

erupted to Kew.

    IMy glacier article is out ; tell me what you think of it some day.

         wrote a civil note to Forbes 1 yesterday, charging myself with

Imy crime, and hope that is the end of the business.

     My wife is mending slowly, and if she were here would desire

to be remembered to you.

In December 1858 he became a Fellow of the Linnean,
and the following month not only Fellow but Secretary

of the Geological Society.

In 1858 also he was elected to the Athenaeum Club

under Rule 2, which provides that the committee shall

yearly elect a limited number of persons distinguished in

art, science, or letters.  His proposer was Sir R. Murchison,

who wrote :--

                                              Athen/eum, Jan. 26.

My dear Huxley -- I had a success as to you that I never had

or heard of before. Nineteen persons voted, and of these eighteen

voted for you and no one against you. You, of course, came in at

the head     of the poll ; no other  having,  i.e. Cobden, more than
            Yours well satisfied,              Rod. I. Murchison.
eleven. --

     From this time forth he corresponded with many foreign
men of science ; in these years particularly with Victor
Carus, Lacaze Duthiers, Kolliker, and de Quatrefages, in
reference to their common interest in the study of the

invertebrates.

     At home, the year 1857 opened very brightly for
Huxley with the birth of his first child, a son, on the eve
of the New Year. A Christmas child, the boy was named
Noel, and lived four happy years to be the very sunshine of
home, the object of passionate devotion, whose sudden loss

struck deeper and more ineffaceably than any other blow
that befell Huxley during all his life.

      As he sat alone that December night, in the little room
that was his study in the house in Waverley Place, waiting
for the event that was to bring him so much happiness and
so much sorrow, he made a last entry in his journal, full of

     1 Principal James Forbes, with whose theory of glaciers Huxley and Tyndall
disagreed.

1856 BIRTH AND DEATH OF A SON

hope and resolution. In the blank space below follows a
note of four years later, when " the ground seemed cut from
under his feet," yet written with restraint and without

bitterness.

     December 31, 1856. . . . 1856-7-8 must still be "Lehrjahre"
to complete training in principles of Histology, Morphology, Physio

logy, Zoology, and Geology by Monographic Work in each Depart

ment. 1860 will then see me well grounded and ready for any

special pursuits in either of these branches.

     It is impossible to map out beforehand how this must be done.
I must seize opportunities as they come, at the risk of the reputation

of desultoriness.
     In 1860 I
"                  may fairly look forward to fifteen    or twenty years
   Meisterjahre,"  and with the comprehensive views      my training will
Ihave given me, think it will be possible in that time to give a new

and healthier direction to all Biological Science.

     To smite all humbugs, however big ; to give a nobler tone to

science ; to set an example of abstinence from petty personal

controversies, and of toleration for everything but lying ; to be

indifferent as to whether the work is recognised as mine or not, so

long as it is done :-- are these my aims? 1860 will show.

                   Willst du dir ein hiibsch Leben zimmern,

                   Musst dich ans Vergangene nicht bek1immern ;
                   Und ware dir auch was Verloren,

                   Musst immer thun wie neugeboren.
                   Was jeder Tag will, sollst du fragen ;
                   Was jeder Tag will, wird er sagen.
                   Musst dich an eigenem Thun ergotzen ;
                   Was andere thun, das wirst du schatzen.

                   Besonders keinen Menschen hassen
                   Und das Ubrige Gott Uberlassen.*

IHalf-past ten at night.     seem to fancy it the pledge that all

      Waiting for my child.

these things shall be.                  Thank God.               New Year's
      Born five minutes before twelve.

Day, 1857.

            1 Wilt shape a noble life ? Then cast
               No backward glances to the past.
              And what if something still be lost ?
               Act as new-bom in all thou dost.
              What each day wills, that shah thou ask ;
               Each day will tell its proper task ;
               What others do, that shalt thou prize,
               In thine own work thy guerdon lies.
               This above all : hate none. The rest --
               Leave it to God. He knoweth best.

152                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  CHAP. XI

                                           September 20, 1860.

      And the same child, our Noel, our first-born, after being for

Inearly four years our delight and our joy, was carried off by scarlet

fever in forty-eight hours. This day week he and had a great

romp together. On Friday his restless head, with its bright blue

eyes and tangled golden hair, tossed all day upon his pillow. On

ISaturday night the fifteenth, I carried him here into my study, and

laid his cold still body here where write. Here too on Sunday

Inight came his mother and to that holy leave-taking.

      My boy is gone, but in a higher and a better sense than was in
Imy mind when         wrote four years ago what stands above-- I feel
                                           I say heartily and without bitter
that  --myAmfaennc,y  has been fulfilled.
ness                  so let it be.

                  CHAPTER XII

                                   1859-1860

THE programme laid down in 1857 was steadily carried
out through a great part of 1859. Huxley published nine

monographs, chiefly on fossil Reptilia, in the proceedings
of the Geological Society and of the Geological Survey,
one on the armour of crocodiles at the Linnean, and
" Observations on the Development of some Parts of the

Skeleton of Fishes," in the Journal of Microscopical Science.

      Among the former was a paper on Stagonolepis, a
creature from the Elgin beds, which had previously been
ranked among the fishes. From some new remains, which
he worked out of the stone with his own hands, Huxley
made out that this was a reptile closely allied to the
Crocodiles ; and from this and the affinities of another

fossil, Hyperodapedon, from neighbouring beds, determined

the geological age to which the Elgin beds belonged A

good deal turned upon the nature of the scales from the
back and belly of this animal, and a careful comparison

with the scales of modern crocodiles-- a subject till then
little investigated -- led to the paper at the Linnean already

mentioned.
      The paper on fish-development was mainly based upon

dissections of the young of the stickleback. Fishes had
been divided into two classes according as their tails are
developed evenly on either side of the line of the spine, which
was supposed to continue straight through the centre of the
tail, or lopsided, with one tail fin larger than the other.
This investigation showed that the apparently even develop
ment was only an extreme case of lopsidedness, the continua

154

tion of the "chorda," which gives rise to the spine, being at

the top of the upper fin, and both fins being developed on

the same side of it. Lopsidedness as such, therefore, was

not to be regarded as an embryological character in ancient
fishes ; what might be regarded as such was the absence of
a bony sheath to the end of the " chorda " found in the more

developed fishes. Further traces of this bony structure were

shown to exist, among other piscine resemblances, in the

Amphibia. Finally the embryological facts now observed

in the development of the bones of the skull were of great
importance, " as they enable us to understand, on the one

hand, the different modifications of the palato-suspensorial

apparatus in fishes, and on the other hand the relations of

the components of this apparatus to the corresponding parts

in other Vertebrata," fishes, reptiles, and mammals presenting

a well-marked series of gradations in respect to this point.

     This part of the paper had grown out of the investiga

tions begun for the essay on the Vertebrate Skull,* just as
that on Jacare and Caiman from inquiry into the scales of

Stagonolepis.

     Thus he was still able to devote most of his time to

original research. But though in his letter of March 27,
"I1855, below, he says,
                         never write for the Reviews now,

as original work is much more to my taste," it appears from

jottings in his 1859 notebook, such as "Whewell's History
of Scientific Ideas, as a Peg on which to hang Cuvier
article," that he again found it necessary to supplement his

income by writing. He was still examiner at London

University, and delivered six lectures on Animal Motion

at the London Institution and another at Warwick. This

lecture he had offered to give at the Warwick Museum as

some recognition of the willing help he had received from

the assistants when he came down to examine certain fossils

there. On the way he visited Rolleston at Oxford. The

knowledge of Oxford life gained from this and a later visit

led him to write :--

     I I IThe more see of the place the more glad am that elected
Ito stay in London.  see much to admire and like ; but I am

more and more convinced that it would not suit me as a residence.

                         1 See p. 141.

                                AT LAMLASH

Two more important points remain to be mentioned

among the occupations of the year. In January Huxley

was elected Secretary of the Geological Society, and with

this office began a form of administrative work in the

scientific world which ceased only with his resignation of the

Presidency of the Royal Society in 1885.                                     On
      Part of the summer Huxley spent in the North.

August 3 he went to Lamlash Bay in Arran. Here Dr.

CHaorlpyenItselranhdad--,  in   1855,   discovered a    coonnvethneienitslcaontdta--gewoenll
                           the    only   one, indeed,

suited for naturalists ; the bay was calm and suitable both

for the dredge and for keeping up a vivarium. He proposed

that either the Survey should rent the whole island at a cost

of some £50, or, failing this, that he would take the cottage
himself, if Huxley would join him for two or three seasons

and share the expense. Huxley laid the plan before Sir

R. Murchison, the head of the Survey, who consented to try

the plan for a course of years, during three months in each
year. " But," he added, " keep it experimental ; for there

are no useful fisheries such as delight Lord Stanley." Here,
then, with an ascent of Goatfell for variety on the 2 1 st, a

month was passed in trawling, and experiments on the

spawning of the herring appear to have been continued for

him during the winter in Bute.

On the 29th Huxley left Lamlash for a trip through

central and southern Scotland, continuing his geological

work for the Survey ; and wound up by attending the meet

ing of the British Association at Aberdeen, leaving his wife

and the three children at Aberdour, on the Fifeshire coast.

      From Aberdeen, where Prince Albert was President of

the Association, Huxley writes on September --1 5 :

...Owen's brief address on giving up the presidential chair was
exceedingly good.               I shall be worked like a horse here. There

are all sorts of new materials from Elgin, besides other things, and

I daresay I shall have to speak frequently. In point of attendance
and money this is the best meeting the Association ever had. In

point of science, we shall see. . . . Tyndall has accepted the

Physical chair with us, at which I am greatly delighted.

      In this connection                the  following  letter  to  Tyndall  is

interesting :--

1 56               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                 CHAP. XII

                                         AbSeredoputr,.     Fife, N.B.,

                                                            5, 1859.

My dear Tyndall -- I met Faraday on Loch Lomond yesterday,

and learned from him that you had returned, whereby you are a

great sinner for not having written to me. Faraday told me you

were all sound, wind and limb, and had carried out your object,

Ifwhich was good to hear.                                   not, pray call

      Have you had any letter from Sir Roderick ?

in Jermyn Street and see Reeks 1 as soon as possible.
IabouTt,h--e Stthoiknegs
                           have been hoping for for years   past has come
                        having resigned the Physical Chair  in our place, in

consequence of his appointment to the Cambridge University

Commission. This unfortunately occurred only after our last
Imeeting for the session, and after had left town, but Reeks wrote
Ito me about it at once.  replied as soon as I received his letter,
and told him that I would take upon myself the responsibility of
saying that you would accept the chair if it were offered you. I
I Ithought I was justified in this by various conversations we have
had ; and, at any rate, felt sure that it was better that   should

I Iget into a mess than that you should lose the chance.
         know that Sir Roderick has written to you, but imagine the

letter has gone to Chamounix, so pray put yourself into communica

tion with Reeks at once.

      You know very well that the having you with us at Jermyn

Street is a project that has long been dear to my heart, partly on

Iyour own account, but largely for the interest of the school.

earnestly hope that there is no impediment in the way of your
coming to us. How I am minded towards you, you ought to know
Iby this time ; but can assure you that all the rest
Ireceive you with open arms. Of that am quite sure.         of us will

     Let me have a line to know your determination.         I am on

tenterhooks till the thing is settled.   go  to  Aberdeen ?-- Ever
      Can't you come up this way as you      T. H. Huxley.

yours faithfully,

      PS. -- I thought I might mention the Jermyn Street matter to
Faraday privately, and did so. He seemed pleased that the offer

had been made.

     The acceptance of the lectureship at the School of
Mines brought Tyndall into the closest contact with Huxley

for the next nine years, until he resigned his lectureship in
1 868 on succeeding Faraday as superintendent of the Royal

Institution.

     1 Mr. Trenham Reeks, who died in 1879, was Registrar of the School of
Mines, and Curator and Librarian of the Museum of Practical Geology.

                            CRITICISM

On September 1 7 he writes :--

    IYesterday Owen and I foregathered in Section D. He read a

very good and important paper, and got up afterwards and spoke
exactly as I thought about
                            and praising many parts of strongly.
                            it,
                                         a

                                                       I

                                                                                 it
In his reply he was unco civil and complimentary, so that the

people who had come in hopes of                     row were (as  intended they
should be) disappointed.

A number of miscellaneous letters of this period are here

grouped together.

...My dear Hooker --                                       Jan.14 Waverley Place,
                                                                                           30, 1858.

                                                    wish you wouldn't be apologetic
                            a

                              I

                                              a
about criticism from people who have right to criticise.                             always
                                                                  I
look upon any criticism as      compliment, not but what the old      I

Adam in T. H. H. will arise and fight vigorously against all

impugnment, and irrespective of all odds in the way of authority,
but that the way of the beast.
      is, I is
Why value your and Tyndall's and Darwin's friendship so

much          among other things, that you all pitch into me when

necessary. You may depend upon                      it,  however blue may look

when in the wrong, it's wrath with myself and nobody else.

                    To His Sister

                The Government School of Mines, Jermyn St.,
                                March 27, 1858.

My dearest Lizzie --                                month since your very welcome
      it
letter reached me.  had every inclination and every intention to
         II
answer at once, but the wear and tear of incessant occupationis
                    I
(for your letter arrived in the midst of my busiest time) has, willa
                                It
sonhnoeot uslwadyanbdtesepberfoitvtreerdwramibtielnegotfothceloonmlegipsruleerehtt,eenrb.du--t ohfofuwtlhlyatthuetnodnseearmsoteaf nmcdai--unsdensowhmoicnaheyis
                                                 a  it I          ;
operate on you, but do not be silent so long again                                   bad for
                                                                     it

                                                                       I is

                                                                            I
both of us.     have loved but few people in my life, and am not

likely to care for any more unless                       be my children.             desire

therefore rather to knit more firmly than to loosen the old ties, and

of these which      older or stronger than ours            ?      Don't let us drift

asunder again.
Your letter came just after the birth of my second child,
                                                                                     a

little girl.    registered her to-day in the style and title of Jessie
Oriana Huxley. The second name
                                                    is     family name of my wife's
                                                        a

and not, as you might suppose, taken from Tennyson. You will

158  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, x11

Iknow why my wife and chose the first. We could not make you

a godmother, as my wife's mother is one, and a friend of ours had

long since applied for the other vacancy, but perhaps this is a better

tie than that meaningless formality. My little son is fifteen months
old; a fair-haired, blue-eyed, stout little Trojan, very like his

mother. He looks out on the world with bold confident eyes and

Iopen brow, as if he were its master. We shall try to make him a

better man than his father. As for the little one, am told she

is pretty, and slavishly admit the fact in the presence of mother

and nurse, but between ourselves I don't see it. To my carnal

eyes her nose is the image of mine, and you know what that means.
For though wandering up and down the world and work have

begun to sow a little silver in my hair, they have by no means

     the outlines of that remarkable feature.
     want to know what am and where
Isoftened                                      I  am --well,      here's

     You
a list of titles. T. H. H., Professor of Natural History, Govern

ment School of Mines, Jermyn Street ; Naturalist to the Geological

Survey ; Curator of the Paleontological collections {non-official maid-
of-all-work in Natural Science to the Government) ; Examiner in
Physiology and Comparative Anatomy to the University of London ;

Fullerian Professor of Physiology to the Royal Institution (but that's
just over); F.R.S., F.G.S., etc. Member of a lot of Societies and

Clubs, all of which cost him a mint of money. Considered a
rising man and not a bad fellow by his friends--per contra greatly

over-estimated and a bitter savage critic by his enemies. Perhaps
Ithey are both right.
                       have a high standard of excellence and
I Iam no respecter of persons, and am afraid show the latter
peculiarity rather too much. An internecine feud rages between

Owen and myself (more's the pity) partly on this account, partly
from other causes.

    IThis is the account any third person would give you of what
I am and of what am doing. He would probably add that I

was very ambitious and desirous of occupying a high place in the
world's estimation. Therein, however, he would be mistaken. An

Iincome sufficient to place me above care and anxiety, and free

scope to work, are the only things have ever wished for or striven

Ifor. But one is obliged to toil long and hard for these, and it is
only now that they are coming within my grasp.    gave up the
Iidea of going to Edinburgh because
                                     doubted whether leaving
ILondon was wise. Recently have been tempted to put up for

a good physiological chair which is to be established at Oxford ;

Ibut the Government                                               the School
                                                                   now per
of Mines, and there
     propose to        pirmobparobvileitymythpaot sitIionshaatll
       is every

manently remain in London. Indeed, it is high time that should

settle down to one line of work. Hitherto, as you see by the

Isomewhat varied list of my duties, etc., above, have been ranging

1858 POSITION IN 1858                                       159

Iover different parts of a very wide field. But this apparent de

sultoriness has been necessary, for knew not for what branch of
Iscience
            should eventually have to declare myself. There are
very few appointments open to men of science in this country, and

one must take what one can get and be thankful.

    IMy health was very bad some years ago, and had great fear

of becoming a confirmed dyspeptic, but thanks to the pedestrian

Itours in the Alps have taken for the past two years, I am wonder

Ifully better this session, and feel capable of any amount of work.

It was in the course of one of these trips that went, as you have
rightly heard, half way up Mont Blanc. But I was not in training

and stuck at the Grands Mulets, while my three companions went

Ion. spent seventeen hours alone on that grand pinnacle, the
Ilatter part of the time in great anxiety, for feared my friends were
lost ; and as I had no guide my own neck would have been in

considerable jeopardy in endeavouring to return amidst the maze

of crevasses of the Glacier des Bois. But it was glorious weather

Iand the grandest scenery in the world. In the previous year

saw much of the Bernese and Monte Rosa country, journeying

with a great friend of mine well known as a natural philosopher,

Tyndall, and partly seeking health and partly exploring the glaciers.
You will find an article of mine on that subject in the Westminster

Review for  1857.    time  to  write a good deal  for that  Review,
             at one
    I used
Iprincipally the Quarterly notice of scientific books. But never

write for the Reviews now, as original work is much more to my
         The articles
taste.   divined. The  you refer to are    Inot mine, as,  indeed, you
rightly                 only considerable                  translated is
                                            book have
Kolliker's Histology -- in conjunction with Mr. Busk, an old friend
of mine. All translation and article writing is weary work, and I
never do it except for filthy lucre. Lecturing I do not like much
better ; though one way or another I have to give about sixty or

Iseventy a year.  think that is enough about my " Ich."     You shall

      Now then,

have a photographic image of him and my wife and child as soon

Ias can find time to have them done. . . .

                                                      1 Eldon Place, Broadsta1rs.

                                                                                              Sept. 5, 1858.

    My dear Hooker--I am glad Mrs. Hooker has found rest for
the sole of her foot. I returned her Tyndall's letter yesterday.

      Wallace's impetus seems to have set Darwin going in earnest,

Iand am rejoiced to hear we shall learn his views in full, at last.
I look forward to a great revolution being effected. Depend upon

in natural history, as in everything else, when the English mind fully
determines to work thing out, will do better than any other.
                     a
                                            it
                                                         it

                                                                                                        it,

   16o            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, x11

        I firmly believe in the advent of an English epoch in science

Iand art, which will lick the Augustan (which, by the bye, had
neither science nor art in our sense, but you know what                   mean)

into fits. So hooray, in the first place, for the Genera plantarum.
I can quite understand the need of a new one, and I am right
glad you have undertaken it. It seems to me to be in all respects

Ithe sort of work for you, and exactly adapted to your environment
at Kew.       remember you mentioned to me some time ago that

I Iyou were thinking of it.
         wish could even hope that such a thing would be even
attempted in the course of this generation for animals.

        But with animal morphology in the state in which it is now,

we have no terminology that will stand, and consequently concise

and comparable definitions are in many cases impossible.

    If old Dom. Gray1 were but an intelligent activity instead of

Ibeing a sort of zoological whirlwind, what a deal he might do.

And am hopeless of Owen's comprehending what classification

means since the publication of the wonderful scheme which adorns

Ithe last edition of his lectures.                                  for "work of price."
I    As you say,   have  found this a great              p"lacaell   but the bookwork,
   have finished  the "  Oceanic Hydrozoa
for which I must have access to the B.M. Library -- but another

week will do him. My notes are from eight to twelve years old,

and really I often have felt like the editor of somebody else's

posthumous work.                    " Croonian,"         which      must  be done

    IJust now am busy over the
I Ibefore return.   have been pulling at all the arguments as a
Ispider does at his threads, and think they are all strong. If so

Ithe thing will do some good.                                       The best thing,

        am perplexed about the N.H. Collections.
I firmly believe, would be for the Economic Zoology and a set of
Iwell selected types to go to Kensington, but should be sorry to

see the scientific  ctohlelec"tiBoinlersp.l"acedI  under any such auspices as

those which govern   would matter a                don't believe    the clay soil of
the Regent's Park                                                   to have a grand
                                                   fraction -- and

scientific zoological and paleontological collection for working pur

Iposes close to the Gardens where the living beasts are, would be a
grand thing.      should not wonder if the affair is greatly discussed

at the B.A. at Leeds, and then, perhaps, light will arise.

        Have you seen that madcap Tyndall's letter in the Times 1

He'll break his blessed neck some day, and that will be a great

hole in the efficiency of my scientific young England. We mean

I Ito return next Saturday, and somewhere                about the 16th or      17thI
   shall go down to York, where                    want  to study Plesiosaurs.

     1 John Edward Gray (1800- 187 5), appointed Keeper of the Zoological
Collections in the British Museum in 1840.

1858 LETTER TO MRS. SCOTT                                                              161

shall return after the British Association. The interesting question

Iarises, Shall have a row with the Great O. there ? What a capital

title that is they give him of the British Cuvier. He stands in

exactly  --thEe vesramyoeursrelfaatiitohnfullyto,  the  French  as British brandy to
cognac.                                                              T. H. Huxley.

    IAm to send the Gardener's Chronicle on, and where ? please.

I have mislaid the address.

                                                        Jf.rmyn Street, Od. 25, 1858.

My dear Spencer --I read your article on the " Archetype "

the other day with great delight, particularly the phrase which puts

the Owenian and Cummingian interpolations on the same footing.

It is rayther strong, but quite just.
    I do not remember a word to object to, but I think I could

have strengthened your argument in one or two places. Having
eaten the food, will you let me have back the dish ? I am winding
up the "Croonian,"      and want L' Archetype to refer to.      So if
can let me have it      I shall be obliged. When do you         return               y?--ou
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours faithfully,

                                                   14 Waverley Place, Jan. 1, 1859.

My dearest Lizzie -- If intentions were only acts, the quantity

of letter paper covered with my scrawl which you would have had

by this time would have been something wonderful. But I live

at high pressure, with always a number of things crying out to be
done, and those that are nearest and call loudest get done, while

the others, too often, don't. However, this day shall not go by

without my wishing you all happiness in the new year, and that

wish you know necessarily includes all belonging to you, and my

love to them.

    I have been long wanting to send you the photographs of

Imyself, wife, and boy, but one reason or other (Nettie's incessant

ill-health being, am sorry to say, the chief) has incessantly delayed
the procuring of the last. However, at length, we have obtained

a tolerably successful one, though you must not suppose that Noel
has the rather washed out look of his portrait. That comes of his
fair hair and blue gray eyes-- for the monkey is like his mother

and has not an atom of resemblance to me.
     He was two years old yesterday, and is the apple of his father's

eye and chief deity of his mother's pantheon, which at present
contains only a god and goddess. Another is expected shortly,
however, so that there is no fear of Olympus looking empty.

. . . Here is the 26th of January and no letter gone yet. . . .
ISince began this letter I have been very busy with lectures and
VOL, I
                                                                M

16a             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                    chap, xn

       isllo--rtschoifckwsorwk,ithanwd hobeospiidnegs,  my whole household
Iother                                                  cough, mother with   almost has
                                                                            influenza, a
been
servant ditto.        don't know whether you have such things in

Tennessee.

     ILet me see what has happened to me that will interest you
since    last wrote.      Did  I tell  you that I have finally made         up my
mind   to stop in     London   -- the                                        worth
                                        Government having made it

Imy while to continue in Jermyn Street ? They give me £600 a

year now, with a gradual rise up to £800, which reckon as just
enough to live on if one keeps very quiet. However, it is the

greatest possible blessing to be paid at last, and to be free from

all the abominable anxieties which attend a fluctuating income.

II can tell you have had a sufficiently hard fight of it.
    When Nettie and I were young fools we agreed we would

marry whenever we had ^200 a year. Well, we have had more
than twice that to begin upon, and how it is we have kept out of

Ithe Bench is a mystery to me. But we have, and am inclined to

think that the Missus has got a private hoard (out of the puddings)
for Noel.

    I shall leave Nettie to finish this rambling letter. In the mean

while, my best love to you and yours, and mind you are a better

correspondent than your affectionate brother,                               Tom.

                      To Professor Leuckart

                               The Government School of Mines,
                                       Jermyn Street, London,
                                              January 30, 1859.

     My dear Sir -- Our mutual friend, Dr. Harley, informs me that

Iyou have expressed a wish to become possessed of a separate copy
of my lectures, published in the Medical Times.         greatly regret
that I have not one to send you. The publisher only gave me half

Ia dozen separate copies of the numbers of the journal in which the

Lectures appeared. Of these sent one to Johannes Miiller and

Ione to Professor Victor Carus, and the rest went to other friends.
    I am sorry to say that a mere fragment of what originally

intended to have published has appeared, the series having been

concluded when I reached the end of the Crustacea. To say truth,

the Lectures were not fitted for the journal in which they appeared.
     I did not know that anyone in Germany had noticed them
Iuntil I received the copy of your Bericht for 1856, which you were
kind enough to send me.        owe you many thanks for the manner
in which you speak of them, and I assure you it was a source of

great pleasure and encouragement to me to find so competent a

judge as yourself appreciating and sympathising with my objects.
     Particular branches of zoology have been cultivated in this

          LETTER TO LEUCKART                                              163

Icountry with great success, as you are well aware, but ten years ago

   do not believe that there were half a dozen of my countrymen

who  had  Ithe slightest  "cWomissperenhscehnasifotlnichoef  morphology,  and of what
you  and                                                     Zoologie."
            should call

     Those who thought about the matter at all took Owen's

osteological extravaganzas for the ne plus ultra of morphological

Ispeculation.
         learned the meaning of Morphology and the value of develop

ment as the criterion of morphological views -- first, from the study

Iof the Hydrozoa during a long voyage, and secondly, from the
writings of Von Bar.      have done my best, both by precept and

practice, to inaugurate better methods and a better spirit than had
long prevailed. Others have taken the same views, and I confidently
Ihope that a new epoch for zoology is dawning among us.
                                                                          do not
claim for myself any great share in the good work, but I have not

flinched when there was anything to be done.

      Under these circumstances you will imagine that it was very

pleasant to find on your side a recognition of what I was about.
    I sent you, through the booksellers, some time ago a copy of

my memoir on Aphis. I find from Moleschott's Untersuchungen

that you must have been working at this subject contemporaneously

with myself, and it was very satisfactory to find so close a con

cordance in essentials between our results. Your memoirs are

extremely interesting, and to some extent anticipated results at

which my friend, Mr. Lubbock 1 (a very competent worker, with
whose paper on Daphnia you are doubtless acquainted), had

arrived.

    I should be very glad to know what you think of my views of

the composition of the articulate head.

    I have been greatly interested also in your Memoir on

Pentastomum. There can be no difficulty about getting a notice

Iof it in our journals, and, indeed, will see to it myself. Pray do
me the favour to let me know whenever I can serve you in this or

other ways.

    I shall do myself the pleasure of forwarding to you immediately,

through the booksellers, a lecture of mine on the Theory of the

Vertebrate Skull, which is just published, and also a little paper on

Ithe development of the tail in fishes.
    I am sorry to say that have but little time for working at these

matters now, as my position at the School of Mines obliges me to

Iconfine myself more and more to Palaeontology.

      However, keep to the anatomical side of that sort of work,

Iand so, now and then, hope to emerge from amidst the fossils

with a bit of recent anatomy.

     Just at present, by the way, I am giving my disposable hours

                          1 The present Lord Avebury.

164                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, xii

to the completion of a monograph on the Calycophoridae and
Physophoridae observed during my voyage. The book ought to

have been published eight years ago. But for three years I could

get no money from the Government, and in the meanwhile you and
Kolliker, Gegenbaur and Vogt, went to the shores of the

Mediterranean and made sad havoc with my novelties. Then

came occupations consequent on my appointment to the chair I now
hold ; and it was only last autumn that I had leisure to take up

the subject again.

    However, the plates, which I hope you will see in a few months

have, with two exceptions, been engraved five years.                 I was sorry not

to    Pray  make   my  raegmaeinmbriannceLsondtoonD. --r.  Eckhard.  dear Sir, very
     have   seen  him                                      Ever, my
                                                           T. H. Huxley.
faithfully yours,

     Prof. Leuckart.

     At this time Sir J. Hooker was writing, as an introduc
tion to his Flora of Tasmania, his essay on the Flora of
Australia, published in 1859-- a book which owed its form
to the influence of Darwin, and in return lent weighty sup

port to evolutionary theory from the botanical side. He
sent his proofs for Huxley to read.

                             14 Waverley Place, N.W.,
                                     April 22, 1859.

     My dear Hooker --I have read your proofs with a great deal
Iof attention and interest.
                                was greatly          struck with     the   suggestions
in the first page, and the                         the fallacy "     that    cultivated
                           ifexlepfotsuarleoneof"
forms recur to wild types                          is new to me and seems of

vast importance.

     The argument brought forward in the note is very striking and
as simple as the egg of Columbus, when one sees it. I have

marked one or two passages which are not quite clear to me. . . .

    I have been accused of writing papers composed of nothing but
heads of chapters, and I think you tend the same way. Please
take the trouble to make the two lines I have scored into a

paragraph, so that poor devils who are not quite so well up in

the subject as yourself may not have to rack their brains for an

hour to supply all the links of your chain of argument. . . .

    You see that I am in a carping humour, but the matter of the
Iessays seems to me to be so very valuable that am jealous of the

manner of it.

    I had a long visit from Greene of Cork yesterday. He is very
Irish, but very intelligent and well-informed, and I am in hopes he

i859 LETTERS                                                                          165

will do good service. He is writing a little book on the Protozoa,

which (so far as I have glanced over the proof sheets as yet) seems

to show a very philosophical turn of mind. It is very satisfactory

to find the ideas one has been fighting for beginning to take root.
I do not suppose my own personal contributions to science will
Iever be anything                                                                     if I have
Ireason to believe                                                                    others. --
               very grand, but shall be well content
               that have done something to stir up
                                                          T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours faithfully,

To the same :--

...My dear Hooker                                                                                 April, 1859.

                                                      I pity you --as for the MSS. it is one of

those cases for which penances were originally devised. What do

you say to standing on your head in the garden for one hour per

diem for the next week ? It would be a relief. . . .

    I suppose you will be at the Phil. Club next Monday. In the

meanwhile   don't let all the flesh be worried            off your  bHounxesley(.there
isn't much                                                   T. H.
            as it is). --Ever yours faithfully,

                                                          14 Waverley Place,
                                                              July 29, 1859.

    My dear Hooker--I meant to have written to you yesterday,
Ibut things put it out of my head. If there is to be any fund raised

at all, am quite of your mind that it should be a scientific fund

and not a mere naturalists' fund. Sectarianism in such matters is

rFidoircuthloeusw, oardnd" bNeastidueras listht a"t,   in this particular case it is  bad policy.
                                                      unfortunately includes a far    lower order

of men than chemist, physicist, or mathematician.         You don't call

a man a mathematician because he has spent his life in getting as

far as quadratics ; but every fool who can make bad species and
worse genera is a " Naturalist " !-- save the mark ! Imagine the
chemists petitioning the Crown for a Pension for P                                    if he

wanted one ! and yet he really is a philosopher compared to poor
dear A
            .  "
" Naturalists
                  therefore                           are far more likely to want     help than

any other class of scientific men, and they would be greatly
                                       interests if they
dfoarmtahgeimngselvtehse. ir--oEwvner  yours faithfully,  formed an exclusive fund
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

CHAPTER XIII

1859

In November 1859 the Origin of Species was published, and

a new direction was given to Huxley's activities. Ever

since Darwin and Wallace had made their joint communica

tion to the Linnean Society in the preceding July, expecta

tion had been rife as to the forthcoming book. Huxley

was one of the few privileged to learn Darwin's argument

before it was given to the world ; but the greatness of the

book, mere instalment as it was of the long accumulated

mass of notes, almost took him by surprise. Before this

time, he had taken up a thoroughly agnostic attitude with

regard to the species question, for he could not accept the

creational theory, yet sought in vain among the trans-

mutationists for any cause adequate to produce transmuta

tion. He had had many talks with Darwin, and though

ready enough to accept the main point, maintained such a

critical attitude on many others, that Darwin was not by

any means certain of the effect the published book would
produce upon him. Indeed, in his 1857 notebook, I find
jotted down under the head of his paper on Pygocephalus
(read at the Geological Society), " anti-progressive confession
of faith." Darwin was the more anxious, as, when he first

put pen to paper, he had fixed in his mind three judges, by

whose decision he determined mentally to abide. These

three were Lyell, Hooker, and Huxley. If these three came

round, partly through the book, partly through their own
reflections, he could feel that the subject was safe. " No

one," writes Darwin on November 13, "has read                      except
I
                                                              it,
Lyell, with whom have had much correspondence. Hooker

                     THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES                                                         167

thinks him a complete convert, but he does not seem so in

his letters to me ; but is evidently deeply interested in the

subject." And again : " I think I told you before that

Hooker is a complete convert. If I can convert Huxley I

shall be content." (Life, vol.
                     it                                221.)
                               a

                                           ii.
                                                   p.
       On all three, the effect of the book itself, with its

detailed arguments and overwhelming array of evidence, was

far greater than that of previous discussions. With one or

two reservations as to the logical completeness of the theory,

Huxley accepted            as well-founded working hypothesis,

calculated to explain problems otherwise inexplicable.

    Two extracts from the chapter he contributed to the

Life   of Darwin      show very clearly his attitude                   of mind

when   the Origin    of Species was first published --
                                                                       I ii.
Extract from " The Reception of the Origin                             of Species " in:
                           of                                            pp. 187-90 and         '

                                                            '
         Life and Letters         Charles Darwin, vol.

         195-97-

       think must have read the Vestiges before left England in
    I; I
1846        iIf Ibut,did, the book  made very little                   iwmitphresthsieon"uSppoenciems e",
and      was    not  brought into   serious contact

question until after 1850. At that time, had long done with the
Pentateuchal cosmogony, which had been impressed upon myI

childish understanding as Divine truth, with all the authority ofif

parents and instructors, and from which          it                    had cost me many            a
                                                     in

                                                  I

                                                          it
struggle to get free. But my mind was unbiassed in respect of any
doctrine which presented itself,                       professed to be based on

purely philosophical and          s"ccierenatitfiiocn,r''easonthineg.       It seemed  to me
then (as does now) that                                                ordinary sense  of the
       is
word,     itperfectly conceivable.      find no difficulty in conceiving

that, at some former period, this universe was not in existence
                                                                       it I
and that        made its appearance in six days (or instantaneously,
    is                                                                              is
            it
that preferred), in consequence of the volition of some pre-exist                           if ;

ing Being. Then, as now, the so-called a priori arguments against

Theism, and, given Deity, against the possibility of creative acts,
                     a

appeared to me to be devoid of reasonable foundation.                  had not

then, and have not now, the smallest a priori objection to raise
          it I
to the account of the creation of animals and plants given in
               a is
Paradise Lost, in which Milton so vividly embodies the natural

sense of Genesis. Far be          I it  from me to say that                            untrue

because              impossible.        confine myself to what must be

regarded as modest and reasonable request for some particle of

evidence that the existing species of animals and plants did

                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        CHAP. XIII

originate in that way, as a condition of my belief in a statement

which appears to me to be highly improbable.^

   tAnd, by way of being perfectly fair, I had exactly the same

answer    to give to the evolutionists                of 1851-58.      Within   the       ranks
of the                                                 with nobody,     except  Dr.      Grant
        biologists, at that time, I met
                                                                                         -- and
of University College, who had a word to say for Evolution

his advocacy was not calculated to advance the cause. Outside

these ranks, the only person known to me whose knowledge and

capacity compelled respect, and who was, at the same time, a
thorough -going evolutionist, was Mr. Herbert Spencer, whose
acquaintance I made, I think,
                               in                      1852, and then entered into       the
bonds of a friendship which,                          am happy to think, has known       no
                               I

interruption. Many and prolonged were the battles we fought on

this topic. But even my friend's rare dialectic skill and copious

ness of    apt   illustration could not               dgrriovuendmse:--frFoimrstlym, ythaatgnuopsttioc
position.       took my stand upon two
             I

that time, the evidence in favour of transmutation was wholly

insufficient ; and secondly, that no suggestion respecting the causes

of transmutation assumed, which had been made, was in any way

adequate to explain the phenomena. Looking back at the state

of knowledge at that time, I really do not see that any other

conclusion was justifiable.
    In those days I had
However, I had studied        never even heard of Treviranus'                   Biologie.
                                                                                read the
                             Lamarck attentively, and I had

Vestiges with due care ; but neither of them afforded me any good

ground for changing my negative and critical attitude. As for the

Vestiges, I confess that the book simply irritated me by the pro

digious ignorance and thoroughly unscientific habit of mind mani

fested by the writer. If it had any influence on me at all, it set
me against Evolution ; and the only review I ever have qualms of
conscience about, on the ground of needless savagery, is one I

wrote on the Vestiges while under that influence. . . .

But, by a curious irony of fate, the same influence which led

me to put as little faith in modern speculations on this subject as

in the venerable traditions recorded in the first two chapters of

Genesis, was perhaps more potent than any other in keeping alive

a sort of pious conviction that Evolution, after all, would turn out

true. I have recently read afresh the first edition of the Principles
of Geology ; and when I consider that this remarkable book had

been nearly thirty years in everybody's hands, and that it brings

home   ftaoct,a--ny threeadperrinocifpolerditnhaarty   intelligence a  great principle   and a
great                                                 the past must     be explained    by the

present, unless good cause be shown to the contrary ; and the fact

that   sonofarsuacshoucrauksneowcleandgebeofshthoewnp, a--st  history of  life  on our   globe
goes,                                                                     but   believe    that
                                                              I cannot

Lyell, for others, as for myself, was the chief agent in smoothing

                 PUBLICATION OF THE 'ORIGIN'                                        169

the road for Darwin. For consistent uniformitarianism postulates

Evolution as much in the organic as in the inorganic world. The

origin of a   new     spe"ccieastasbtryophoethe"r  than   ordinary agencies would
be a vastly  greater                               than  any of those which Lyell

successfully eliminated from sober geological speculation.

Thus, looking back into the past, it seems to me that my own

position of critical expectancy was just and reasonable, and must

have been taken up, on the same grounds, by many other persons.

If Agassiz told me that the forms of life which have successively

tenanted the globe were the incarnations of successive thoughts of
the Deity, and that He had wiped out one set of these embodi

ments by an appalling geological catastrophe as soon as His ideas
took a more advanced shape, I found myself not only unable to

admit the accuracy of the deductions from the facts of paleontology,

upon which this astounding hypothesis was founded, but I had to

Iconfess my want of any means of testing the correctness of his

explanation of them. And besides that, could by no means see

what the explanation explained. Neither did it help me to be told

by an eminent anatomist that species had succeeded one another

in time, in virtue of "a continuously operative creational law."
That seemed to me to be no more than saying that species had

succeeded   "onteo  another in         mtthoaeonkfoorrmfefusgcoieefncaine,vothtaean-tcdat"c"hthicniirgteigaetrioeSnskoaellup"stiios nto",
with " law           catch the
draw the orthodox. So I

which Goethe has so well defined ; and, reversing the apostolic

precept to be all things to all men, I usually defended the tenability
of the received doctrines when I had to do with the transmuta-

tionist ; and  --sttohoedrebuyp,  for  the possibility of transmutation among
the orthodox                      no   doubt, increasing an already current,

but quite undeserved, reputation for needless combativeness.

     I remember, in the course of my first interview with Mr.

Darwin, expressing my belief in the sharpness of the lines of

demarcation between natural groups and in the absence of transi

tional forms, with all the confidence of youth and imperfect
               I was not aware, at that time, that he had then been
knowledge.

many years brooding over the species-question ; and the humorous

smile which accompanied his gentle answer, that such was not

altogether his view, long haunted and puzzled me. But it would

seem that four or five years' hard work had enabled me to under

stand what   it      meant ;      fo1r856L)y,elsl,aysw: r--iting  to  Sir  Charles  Bunbury
(under date  of
                    April 30,
     "When Huxley, Hooker and Wollaston were at Darwin's last

week, they (all four of them) ran a tilt against species -- further, I
believe, -than they are prepared to go."
    I recollect nothing of this beyond the fact of meeting
                                                                                    Mr.
Wollaston ; and except for Sir Charles's distinct assurance as to                   " all

i7o              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                    chap, xiu

Ifour,"  should have thought my outrecuidance was probably a

counterblast to Wollaston's conservatism. With regard to Hooker,

he was already, like Voltaire's Habbakuk, capable de tout in the way

Iof advocating Evolution.                                            imagine that most of those of my
    As I have already said,
cmouncthemipnormaryieoswnwhostattehouogf hmt insedri--ousinlyclinaebdoutto       the    matter, were very
                                                                                   say   to both Mosaists
and Evolutionists, "a plague on both your houses ! " and disposed

to turn aside from an interminable and apparently fruitless dis

cussion, to labour in the fertile fields of ascertainable fact. And I

may therefore suppose that the publication of the Darwin and
Wallace paper in 1858, and still more that of the "Origin" in

1859, had the effect upon them of the flash of light which, to a

man who has lost himself on a dark night, suddenly reveals a road

which, whether it takes him straight home or not, certainly goes
his way. That which we were looking for, and could not find, was

a hypothesis respecting the origin of known organic forms which

assumed the operation of no causes but such as could be proved to

be actually at work. We wanted, not to pin our faith to that or

any other speculation, but to get hold of clear and definite concep

tions which could  bTehebro"uOghritginfac"e                          to face with facts and have their
validity tested.                                                     provided us with the working

hypothesis  we   sought.  fromMortehoevedri,lemit mdaid--thReefuimsementose                     service     of
freeing us  for    ever                                                                      accept       the

creation hypothesis, and what have you to propose that can be

Iaccepted by any cautious reasoner? In 1857 I had no answer

ready, and do not think that anyone else had. A year later we

reproached ourselves with dulness for being perplexed with such
achneavneitnraqtluhiroidyu.egahtoMfoyfthrteehfal"et cO!tir"oigni,nI  when I first made myself master of the

                                                                      " was, " How extremely stupid not to
                                                                       suppose that Columbus' companions

said much the same when he made the egg stand on end. The

facts of variability, of the struggle for existence, of adaptation to

conditions, were notorious enough ; but none of us had suspected

that the road to the heart of the species problem lay through them,

until Darwin   OarnigdinW"allgauciededdistpheellebdenitghhetedda.rkness,                and  the beacon-
fire of the "

     Whether the particular shape which the doctrine of Evolution,

as applied to the organic world, took in Darwin's hands, would

             final or                                                            matter of indifference.    In
            criticisms                                                             ventured to point out  that
Iprove to be

my earliest
                        nooft,thweas"                                to me   "a
                                                                     Origin

its logical foundation was insecure so long as experiments in

selective breeding had not produced varieties which were more or

less infertile ; and that insecurity remains up to the present time.

But, with any and every critical doubt which my sceptical ingenuity

could suggest, the Darwinian hypothesis remained incomparably

                               THE FLASH OF LIGHT

more probable than the creation hypothesis. And if we had none

of us been able to discern the paramount significance of some of

the most patent and notorious of natural facts, until they were, so

dtoilemspmeaak,--  thrust under   our noses,    what  force remained in the
                   creation or   nothing ?             obvious that hereafter
                                              It was

the probability would be immensely greater, that the links of

natural causation were hidden from our purblind eyes, than that

natural causation should be incompetent to produce all the

phenomena of nature. The only rational course for those who
                               than the attainment of
h"aDdarnwoinoistmher"  object  working hypothesis and  truth   was  to accept
                                                              what  could be
                        as a                            see

made of it. Either it would prove its capacity to elucidate the

facts of organic life, or it would break down under the strain.
This was surely the dictate of common sense, and, for once,

common sense carried the day.

     Even before the " Origin " actually came out, Huxley had
begun to act as what Darwin afterwards called his " general

agent." He began to prepare the way for the acceptance

of the theory of evolution by discussing, for instance, one of
the most obvious difficulties, namely, How is it that if evolu

tion is ever progressive, progress is not universal ? It was

a point    with respect          to which Darwin       himself  wrote soon
after the  publication of                              Judging  from letters
                                 the " Origin " :-- "

. . . and from remarks, the most serious omission in my

book was not explaining how it3,              as believe, that all

                          ;

                                                             is,

                                                       I

                                                                                                                                                  ;
forms do not necessarily advance, how there can now be

simple organisms existing." (May 22, i860.)

Huxley's idea, then, was to call attention to the persist

ence of many types without appreciable progression during

geological time to show that this fact was not explicable

on any other hypothesis than that put forward by Darwin

and by paleontological arguments, to pave the way for

consideration of the imperfection of the geological record.

     Such were the lines on which he delivered his Friday
evening lecture on " Persistent Types " at the Royal Institu

tion on June 1859.
      However, the chief part which he took at this time in

extending the doctrines of evolution was in applying

them to his own subjects, Development and Vertebrate
Anatomy, and more particularly to the question of the

origin of mankind.

17-           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, x111

     Of all the burning questions connected with the Origin
of Species, this was the most heated -- the most surrounded
by prejudice and passion. To touch it was to court attack ;

atobusbee--eaxplmosoesdt  to endless scorn, ridicule, misrepresentation,

                          to social ostracism.  But the facts were

there ; the structural likenesses between the apes and man

had already been shown ; and as Huxley warned Darwin,
" I will stop at no point so long as clear reasoning will carry

me further."
      Now two years before the " Origin " appeared, the denial

of these facts by a leading anatomist led Huxley, as was his

wont, to re- investigate the question for himself and satisfy
himself one way or the other. He found that the previous
investigators were not mistaken. Without going out of his way

to refute the mis-statement as publicly as it was made, he

simply embodied his results in his regular teaching. But

the opportunity came unsought. Fortified by his own

researches, he openly challenged these assertions when

repeated at the Oxford meeting of the British Association

in 1860, and promised to make good his challenge in the

proper place.
     We also find him combating some of the difficulties in

the way of accepting the theory laid before him by Sir
Charles Lyell. The veteran geologist had been Darwin's

confidant from almost the beginning of his speculations ; he

had really paved the way for the evolutionary doctrine by

his own proof of geological uniformity, but he shrank from

accepting     for its inevitable extension to the descent of
       a

                  it,
                       ii.

                               p.
                                                  a

                                                       a

                                                             it
                                                                                                of
man was repugnant to his feelings. Nevertheless, he would

not allow sentiment to stand in the way of truth, and after
the publication of the " Origin "
him --                                          could be said of

     Lyell, up to that time pillar of the anti-transmutationists (who
regarded him, ever after, as Pallas Athene may have looked at

Dian, after the Endymion affair), declared himself a Darwinian,

though not without putting in serious caveat. Nevertheless, he

was      tower of strength, and his    choounraoguero.u--s (Ts.tanHd.  for truth as
against  consistency did him infinite                                  H. in Life
Danvin, vol.
                          231.)

                                       LETTER 70 LYELL                                                   173

                               To S1r Charles Lyell

                                                                                June 25, 1859.

     My dear    thSe1renCclohsaedrl.e--s --EvIerhayvoeurs,envdeeryavtoruurlye,d  to               meet your
objections in                                                                                    T. H. H.

    The fixity and definite limitation of species, genera, and larger

groups appear to me to be perfectly consistent with the theory of
                               In other words, I think transmutation may take
transmutation.

place without transition.

     Suppose that external conditions acting on species A give rise

to a new species, B ; the difference between the two species is a

certain definable amount which may be called A-B. Now I know

of no evidence to show that the interval between the two species

must necessarily be bridged over by a series of forms, each of which

shall occupy, as it occurs, a fraction of the distance between A and
B. On the contrary, in the history of the Ancon sheep, and of the

six-fingered Maltese family, given by Reaumur, it appears that the

Inew form appeared at once in full perfection.                                                           In an
       may illustrate what I mean by a chemical example.

organic compound, having a precise and definite composition, you

may effect all sorts of transmutations by substituting an atom of one

element  for an                atom    of   amnootdhiefircaetlieomnse--nt. but  You may in this way
produce  a vast                series   of                                        each modification is

definite in its composition, and there are no transitional or inter
Imediate steps between one definite compound and another.
                                                                                                         have

a sort of notion that similar laws of definite combination rule over

the modifications of organic bodies, and that in passing from species
to species "Natura fecit saltum."

of   All my   studies lead             me to believe more and                   more in the      absence
              transitions              between natural groups,                  great and
    any real                                                                                     small --

but with what we know of the physiology of conditions                                            this opinion
                                            a
                                                                                            [?]
seems to me to be quite consistent with transmutation.

    When say that no evidence, or hardly any, would justify one
    I
         I
in believing in the view of new species of Elephant, e.g. out of the

earth, mean that such an occurrence would be so diametrically

contrary to all experience, so opposed to those beliefs which are

the most constantly verified by experience, that one would be

justified in believing either that one's senses were deluded, or that

one had not really got to the bottom of the phenomenon. Of

course, one could vary the conditions, one could take little
it                                          a
                                               is
          if
                                                         if
            I
                            a                                                           a
                                                                                                      a
silex, and by little hocus-pocus la crosse, galvanise baby out of

    as often as one pleased, all the philosopher could do would be to

hold up his hands and cry, "God great." But short of evidence

of this kind, don't mean to believe anything of the kind.

174  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                          chap, xm

     How much evidence would you require to believe that there was

a time when stones fell upwards, or granite made itself by a

spontaneous rearrangement of the elementary particles of clay and
sand ? And yet the difficulties in the way of these beliefs are as
nothing compared to those which you would have to overcome in

believing that complex organic beings made themselves (for that is
what creation comes to in scientific language) out of inorganic

matter.

    I know it will be said that even on the transmutation theory,

the first organic being must have made itself. But there is as

much difference between supposing the passage of inorganic

matter into an amoeba, e.g., and into an Elephant, as there is

between supposing that Portland stone might have built itself up

into St. Paul's, and believing that the Giant's Causeway may have

come about by natural causes.

     True, one must believe in a beginning somewhere, but science

consists in not believing the having reached that beginning before

one is forced to do so.

     It is wholly impossible to prove that any phenomenon what

soever is not produced by the interposition of some unknown

cause. But philosophy has prospered exactly as it has disregarded

such possibilities, and has endeavoured to resolve every event by

Iordinary reasoning.

          do not exactly see the force of your argument that we

are bound to find fossil forms intermediate between men and

monkeys in the Rocks. Crocodiles are the highest reptiles as

men are the highest mammals, but we find nothing intermediate

between crocodilia and lacertilia in the whole range of the Mesozoic
rocks. How do we know that Man is not a persistent type ? And

Ias for implements, at this day, and as, suppose, for the last two or

three thousand years at least, the savages of Australia have made
their weapons of nothing but bone and wood. Why should Homo
Eocenus or Ooliticus, the fellows who waddied the Amphitherium and

speared the Phascobtherium as the Australian niggers treat their

congeners, have been more advanced ?

    I by no means suppose that the transmutation hypothesis is
Iproven or anything like it. But view it as a powerful instrument

of research. Follow it    out, and it will lead    us  somewhere ; while
the other notion is like  all the modifications        final causation," a
                                                 of "

Ibarren virgin.

     And would very strongly urge upon you that it is the logical
development of Uniformitarianism, and that its adoption would

harmonise the spirit of Paleontology with that of Physical Geology.

                                           CHAPTER XIV

                                           1859-60

     The " Origin " appeared in November.                                                   As soon as he

                  Huxley wrote the following letter to Darwin
had read          it,
                                                                           ii.
                                                                                        p.

                                                                                                                                   :
(already published in Life of Darwin, vol.                                                    231) --

                                           Jermyn Street, W., November 23, 1859.

     My dear Darwin -- finished your book yesterday,                                                                                  lucky
                                           II I                                               *
examination having furnished me with few hours of continuous
                                                            a                                   aI a
leisure.                                                       ;

     Since read Von Bar's essays, nine years ago, no work on     it
     I is
Natural History Science have met with has made so great an
            a
impression upon me, and do most heartily thank you for the
          I
great store of new views you have given me. Nothing,                                                                                  think,
can be better than the tone of the bookif
                                                                                     impresses those who

know about the subject. As for your doctrine, am prepared to
                                                                                     I        IX and most
go to  the stake, requisite,                in support of Chapter                       I
parts                                                                                         contains much
       of Chapters X, XI,                  XII, and Chapter XIII

that most admirable, but on one or two points enter caveat

until can see further into all sides of the question.

     As to the first four chapters,2 agree thoroughly and fully with
                                                         I

all the principles laid down in them.                       I            think you have demon

strated true cause for the production of species, and have thrown

the onus probandi, that species did not arise in the way you suppose,

on your adversaries.

      But   feel that                      have not yet by any means fully realised                                                   the
bearings
1                                                                                                                                     IV,

    I
         I

                I
            of those most remarkable and original Chapters -- III,
and V, and will write no more about them just now.

         Chapter  IX, The  BIeminpgesrf;ectXioIn-XIoIf,  the Geological  RDeicsotrrdibutiXon, ;ThXeIGIIe,olColgaiscsail
Succession of                                              Geographical                     ;
                  Organic                                                                            ;

            Morphology, Embryology, and                                                                       ;
            Variation under Domestication
III,fication,
2                                                        ;  RIuId,imVeanrtiaartyion  Organs.  Nature                                  The
                                                                                       under
  I,                                       IV, Operation of Natural Selection
                                                                                              V, Laws of
                                        ;
Struggle for Existence

Variation.

    176        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                           chap, xiv

         The only objections that have occurred to me are -- 1st, That

    you have loaded yourself with an unnecessary difficulty in adopting

    Natura non facit saltum so unreservedly ; and 2nd, It is not clear
    to me why, if continual physical conditions are of so little moment

    as you suppose, variation should occur at all.

        However, I must read the book two or three times more before
    I presume to begin picking holes.

       I trust you will not allow yourself to be in any way disgusted or

    annoyed by the considerable abuse and misrepresentation which,
    unless I greatly mistake, is in store for you. Depend upon
it                                                                                                you

 ;I

                                                       it

                                                      I

                                                                                                                it,

                                                                               I I it)
    have earned the lasting gratitude of all thoughtful men. And as

    to the curs which will bark and yelp, you must recollect that some

    of your friends, at anyrate, are endowed with an amount of com

    bativeness which (though you have often and justly rebuked

    may stand you in good stead.

         am sharpening up my claws and beak in readiness.

         Looking back over my letter,          really expresses so feebly all

    think about you and your noble book, that am half-ashamed                                                      "of

          but you will  understand that, like the  parrot in the story,
    think the more."                                     T. H. Huxley.
                        -- Ever yours faithfully,

by A     A month later, fortune put into his hands the oppora
  I                                   i.
    tunity of striking vigorous and telling blow for the newly-

    published book. Never was windfall more eagerly accepted.
        short account of this lucky chance was written by him

    for the Darwin Life (vol. p. 255).

         The " Origin " was sent to Mr. Lucas, one of the staff of the

    Times writers at that day, in what was suppose the ordinary course
                                               II
of business. Mr. Lucas, though an excellent journalist, and at                                    Ia
                                                         it
later period, editor of Once a Week, was as innocent of any knowit

ledge of science as babe, and bewailed himself to an acquaintance               ;
                        a
                                            a                  I
on having to deal with such book. Whereupon, he was recom

mended to ask me to get him out of his difficulty, and he applied

to me accordingly, explaining, however, that       would be necessary

for him formally to adopt anything might be disposed to write,

    prefacing  with two or three paragraphs of his own.
               it
                     a

                           I
         was too anxious to seize upon the opportunity thus offered of

giving the book fair chance with the multitudinous readers of the

Times, to make any difficulty about conditions and being then

very full of the subject, wrote the article faster, think, than

ever wrote anything in my life, and sent           to Mr. Lucas, who duly

prefixed his opening sentences.

      When the article appeared, there was much speculation as to
its authorship. The secret leaked out in time, as all secrets will,

         by

                                 ;

                                   I

                                                                                               a
but not        my aid and then used to derive good deal of

1859 THE ' TIMES' REVIEW OF THE 'ORIGIN'                                                                  177

innocent amusement from the vehement assertions of some of my
more acute friends, that they knew it was mine from the first

paragraph !

    IAs the Times some years since, referred to my connection with

the review, suppose there will be no breach of confidence in the
publication of this little history, if you think it worth the space it
will occupy.

      The article appeared on                              December 26.                 Only Hooker
was admitted into the secret.                                                           note Huxley
                                                            In an undated
writes to him : --

     I have written the other review you wot of, and have handed

it over to my friend to deal as he likes with it. . . . Darwin will
                                  that I
laugh over a letter                         sent him       this        morning          with a    vignette of
                                     " pet  " ready        to         fight his          battle,    and the
t"hjeudiJceiormusynHoSotkreeer t  " holding the bottle.

     And on December 3 1 he writes again :--

                                                      Jermyn Street, December 31, 1859.

    My dear Hooker-- I have not the least objection to my
Ishare in the Times article being known, only should not like to
have anything stated on my authority. The fact
                                                                                        is,  that the first

quarter of the first column (down to "what                                              species," etc.)       it is
            but                                                        is
            (my                                                                is
                                                                                   a
not  mine,       "beTleomngpsoratol         the man who                     the official reviewer         for
the  Times                                  " godfather                might call him).
                                                                    I

     The rest in                  mydoiepssi--ssimfoar     verba, and                   only wonder    that
                                                                                                         wrote
turns out as well as
            is                                                         it

                I it                                                      I
                                                      I    wrote faster than ever                 I

anything in my life. The last column nearly as fast as my wife

could read the sheets. But was thoroughly in the humour and
full of the subject. Of course as scientific review the thing

worth nothing, but earnestly hope may have made some of the
                                            I                                                                 is

                                                        it a

educated mob, who derive their ideas from the Times, reflect. And

whatever they do, they shall respect Darwin.

      Pray give my kindest regards and best wishes for the New Year
to Mrs. Hooker, and tell her that she, of her own natural sagacity
                                                           if
and knowledge of the              naughtiness            of         --mybuhteathrta, t  affirms that      wrote
the article, shall not            contradict            her       is                      for reasons  of state
I                                                                                     I
                                                                                                   I
        I

                              it
-- must not be supposed to say anything.                                                am pretty certain

the Saturday article was not written by Owen. On internal grounds,

because no word in exceeds an inch in length on external, from
what Cook said to me. The article weak enough and one-sided

enough, but looking at the various forces in action, think Cook
                                                                                        ;

                                                                                            I

has fully redeemed his promise to me.                                  Tuesday --was              ill when
          went down to Sir P. Egerton on
I                                                                                                           I

         I
started, got worse and had to come back on Thursday.                                              I    am all

     VOL.                                                                                              N

178

adrift now, but I couldn't stand being in the house any longer. I
Iwish I had been born an an-hepatous fmtus.
                                                                        and
     All sorts of good wishes to you, and may you and

Tyndalides, and   one or                    --twoEvmeroryeoubrsri,cks,  be in as good fighting
order in 1861 as  in 1860.                                                  T. H. Huxley.

     Speaking of this period and the half-dozen preceding

years, in  his 1894 preface                 to Man's Place in Nature    he

says :--

     Among the many problems which came under my considera

tion, the position of the human species in zoological classification

was one of the most serious. Indeed, at that time it was a burn

ing question in the sense that those who touched it were almost

certain to burn their fingers severely. It was not so very long since
my kind friend, Sir William Lawrence, one of the ablest men whom
I have known, had been well-nigh ostracised for his book On Man,

which now might be read in a Sunday school without surprising

anybody ; it was only a few years since the electors to the chair of

Natural History in a famous northern university had refused to

invite a very distinguished man to occupy it because he advocated
the doctrine of the diversity of species of mankind, or what was

called "polygeny." Even among those who considered man from
the point of view, not of vulgar prejudice, but of science, opinions

lay poles asunder. Linnaeus had taken one view, Cuvier another ;

and among my senior contemporaries, men like Lyell, regarded by

many as revolutionaries of the deepest dye, were strongly opposed

to anything which tended to break down the barrier between man

and the rest of the animal world.

     My own mind was by no means definitely made up about this

matter when, in the year 1857, a paper was read before the

Linnaean Society "On the Characters, Principles of Division and

Primary Groups of the Class Mammalia," in which certain

anatomical features of the brain were said to be "peculiar to the
genus ' Homo," ' and were made the chief ground for separating

"thAatrchgeennucsephfraolma,"allapoathrter   mammals   and placing      him in a division,
                                            from, and  superior to,     all the rest. As
Ithese statements did not agree with the opinions had formed, I

set to work to reinvestigate the subject ; and soon satisfied myself

that the structures in question were not peculiar to Man, but were

shared by him with all the higher and many of the lower apes. I

embarked in no public discussion of these matters, but my attention

being thus drawn to them, I studied the whole question of the struc

tural relations of Man to the next lower existing forms, with much

care. And, of course, I embodied my conclusions in my teaching.

     Matters were at this point when the Origin of Species appeared.

1860 ' MAN'S PLACE IN NATURE                                            '79

The weighty sentence, " Light will be thrown on the origin of man

and his history" (1st edition,  Ip. 488), was not only in  full   harmony
with the conclusions at which                              the   structural
                                   had arrived respecting

relations of apes and men, but was strongly supported by them.

And inasmuch as Development and Vertebrate Anatomy were not

among Mr. Darwin's many specialities, it appeared to me that I

Ishould not be intruding on the ground he had made his own, if
Idiscussed this part of the general question. In fact, thought that

I might probably serve the cause of Evolution by doing so.

Some experience of popular lecturing had convinced me that

the necessity of making things clear to uninstructed people was

one of the very best means of clearing up the obscure corners in

one's own mind. So, in 1860, I took the Relation of Man to the

Lower Animals for the subject of the six lectures to working men

which it was my duty to deliver. It was also in 1860 that this

topic was discussed before a jury of experts at the meeting of the

British Association at Oxford, and from that time a sort of running

fight on the same subject was carried on, until it culminated at the

Cambridge Meeting of the Association in 1862, by my friend Sir
W. Flower's public demonstration of the existence in the apes of

those cerebral characters which had been said to be peculiar to man.

     The famous Oxford Meeting of 1860 was of no small

importance in Huxley's career. It was not merely that he

helped to save  aandgreriadticucaleus--e   from being stifled under     mis
representation                            that he helped to extort for   it a

fair hearing ; it was  now   that he first  made himself known in
popular estimation            dangerous
                       as a                 adversary in debate -- a

personal force in the world of science which could not be

neglected. From this moment he entered the front fighting

line in the most exposed quarter of the field.

Most unluckily, no contemporary account of his own

exists of the encounter.        Indeed, the same cause which

prevented his writing home the story of the day's work
nearly led to his absence from the scene. It was known

that Bishop Wilberforce, whose first class in mathematics

gave him, in popular estimation, a right to treat on scientific
matters, intended to " smash Darwin " ; and Huxley, ex

pecting that the promised debate would be merely an appeal

to prejudice in a mixed audience, before which the scientific

arguments of the Bishop's opponents would be at the utmost

disadvantage, intended to leave Oxford that very morning

and join his wife at Hardwicke, near Reading, where she was

i8o  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                     chap, xiv

staying with her sister. But in a letter, quoted below, he

tells how, on the Friday afternoon, he chanced to meet

Robert Chambers, the reputed author of the Vestiges of

Creation, who begged him " not to desert them." Accord

ingly he postponed his departure ; but seeing his wife next

morning, had no occasion to write a letter.

     Several accounts of the scene are already in existence :

one in the Life of Darwin (vol. p. 320), another in the 1892
     p.

        I
                               ;
                            a
                                                        ii.
                                                                             ii.
Life, 236 sq.                               third that of Lyell (vol.             p. 335), the

slight differences between them representing the difference

between individual recollections of eye-witnesses. In addition

to these have been fortunate enough to secure further

reminiscences from several other eye-witnesses.

     Two papers in Section D, of no great importance in them

selves, became historical as affording the opponents of Darwin

their opportunity of making an attack upon his theory which

should tell with the public. The first was on Thursday,

June 28. Dr. Daubeny of Oxford made a communication
to the Section, " On the final causes of the sexuality of

plants, with particular reference to Mr. Darwin's work on

the Origin of Species." Huxley was called upon to speak
it

                            a

                                                                1

                                                                       a
by the President, but tried to avoid                                      discussion, on the
ground " that general audience, in which sentiment would

unduly interfere with intellect, was not the public before

which such a discussion should be carried on."

      This consideration, however, did not stop the discussion                    ;
     was continued by Owen. He said he " wished to ap

proach the subject in the spirit of the philosopher," and
declared his " conviction that there were facts by which the

public could come to some conclusion with regard to the

probabilities of the truth of Mr. Darwin's theory." As

one of these facts, he stated that the brain of the gorilla
" presented more differences, as compared with the brain of

man, than did when compared with the brains of the very
1

            it

                                         ;
lowest and most problematical of the Quadrumana."
      Now this was the very point, as said above, upon which

Huxley had made special investigations during the last two

        My best thanks are due to Mr. F. Darwin for permission to quote his
accounts of the meeting other citations are from the Alhenaum reports of July
14, i860.

186o THE OXFORD MEETING OF 1860  181

years, with precisely opposite results, such as, indeed, had

been arrived at by previous investigators. Hereupon he
replied, giving these assertions a " direct and unqualified

contradiction," and pledging himself to "justify that unusual

procedure elsewhere," -- a pledge which was amply fulfilled in

the pages of the Natural History Review for 1 861.

Accordingly it was to him, thus marked out as the

champion of the most debatable thesis of evolution, that,

two days later, the Bishop addressed his sarcasms, only to

meet with a withering retort. For on the Friday there was

peace ; but on the Saturday came a yet fiercer battle over

the "Origin," which loomed all the larger in the public eye,
because it was not merely the contradiction of one anatomist

by another, but the open clash between Science and the

Church. It was, moreover, not a contest of bare bact or

abstract assertion, but a combat of wit between two indi

viduals, spiced with the personal element which appeals to

one of the strongest instincts of every large audience.

     It was the merest chance, as I have already said, that

Huxley attended the meeting of the section that morning.

Dr. Draper of New York was to read a paper on the
" Intellectual Development of Europe considered with refer
ence to the views of Mr. Darwin." " I can still hear," writes
one who was present, " the American accents of Dr. Draper's
opening address when he asked ' Air we a fortuitous con
                    '"
course  of atoms        However, it was not to hear him, but
                  ?

the eloquence of the Bishop, that the members of the

Association crowded in such numbers into the Lecture

Room of the Museum, that this, the appointed meeting-place

of the section, had to be abandoned for the long west room,

since cut in two by a partition for the purposes of the
library. It was not term time, nor were the general public

admitted ; nevertheless the room was crowded to suffocation

long before the protagonists appeared on the scene, 700
persons or more managing to find places. The very

windows by which the room was lighted down the length of

its west side were packed with ladies, whose white handker

chiefs, waving and fluttering in the air at the end of the

Bishop's speech, were an unforgettable factor in the acclama
tion of the crowd.

           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        chap, x1v

On the east side between the two doors was the plat

form. Professor Henslow, the President of the section, took

his seat in the centre ; upon his right was the Bishop, and

beyond him again Dr. Draper ; on his extreme left was Mr.
Dingle, a clergyman from Lanchester, near Durham, with Sir

J. Hooker and Sir J. Lubbock in front of him, and nearer

the centre, Professor Beale of King's College, London, and

Huxley.

The clergy, who shouted lustily for the Bishop, were

massed in the middle of the room ; behind them in the

north-west corner a knot of undergraduates (one of these
was T. H. Green, who listened but took no part in the
cheering) had gathered together beside Professor Brodie,

ready to lift their voices, poor minority though they were,
for the opposite party. Close to them stood one of the

few men     among the     audience     already   in  Holy orders, who
joined in                               cheers  for  the Darwinians.
           -- and indeed   led -- the
So " Dr. Draper droned out his paper, turning first to the

right hand and then to the left, of course bringing in a refer

ence to the Origin of Species which set the ball rolling."

     An hour or more that paper lasted, and then discus
sion began. The President " wisely announced in limine

that none who had not valid arguments to bring forward on

one side or the other would be allowed to address the meet

ing ; a caution that proved necessary, for no fewer than four
combatants had their utterances burked by him, because of

their indulgence in vague declamation."1

     First spoke (writes Professor Farrar f) a layman from Bromp
ton, who gave his name as being one of the Committee of the
(newly-formed) Economic section of the Association. He, in a
stentorian voice, let off his theological venom. Then jumped up
Richard Greswell 3 with a thin voice, saying much the same, but

speaking as a scholar ; but we did not merely want any theological
discussion, so we shouted them down. Then a Mr. Dingle got up
and tried to show that Darwin would have done much better if he
had taken him into consultation. He used the blackboard and

began a mathematical demonstration on the question -- " Let this
point A be man, and let that point B be the mawnkey." He got

no further ; he was shouted down with cries of " mawnkey." None

           1 Life of Darwin, I.e.      2 Canon of Durham.
         3 Rev. Richard Greswell, B.D., Tutor of Worcester College.

1Soo BISHOP WILBERFORCES SPEECH                                               183

of these had spoken more than three minutes. It was when these
were shouted down that Henslow said he must demand that the

discussion should rest on scientific grounds only.
      Then there were calls for the Bishop, but he rose and said he

understood his friend Professor Beale had something to say first.
Beale, who was an excellent histologist, spoke to the effect that the

new theory ought to meet with fair discussion, but added, with
great modesty, that he himself had not sufficient knowledge to
discuss the subject adequately. Then the Bishop spoke the speech
that you know, and the question about his mother being an ape,

or his grandmother.

     From the scientific point of view, the speech was of

small value. It was evident from his mode of handling the

subject that he had been " crammed up to the throat," and

knew nothing at first hand ; he used no argument beyond

those to be found in his Quarterly article, which appeared

a few days later, and is now admitted to have been in
spired by Owen. " He ridiculed Darwin badly and Huxley

savagely ; but," confesses one of his strongest opponents,
" all in such dulcet tones, so persuasive a manner, and in

such well-turned periods, that I who had been inclined to

blame the President for allowing a discussion that could

serve no scientific purpose, now forgave him from the bottom

of my heart." *                                                               an hour with
     The Bishop spoke thus " for full half                                      " In a light,

inimitable spirit, emptiness and unfairness."

scoffing tone, florid and fluent, he assured us there was

nothing in the idea of evolution ; rock-pigeons were what

rock-pigeons had always been. Then, turning to his anta

gonist with a smiling insolence, he begged to know, was it

through his grandfather or his grandmother that he claimed
his descent from a monkey ? " 2

1  L"ifReemofinDisacerwncines,  I.e.                Macmillan' s Magazine, October 1898.
1                               of a Grandmother,"

Professor Farrar thinks this version of what the Bishop said is slightly inaccurate.

His impression is that the words actually used seemed at the moment flippant
and unscientific rather than insolent, vulgar, or personal. The Bishop, he writes,
"had been talking of the perpetuity of species of Birds ; and then, denying a
                                               the species Man from Ape,
Iffaoidrtioofrfieethliengd,eraivnadtisoanid,of'   any one were to be willing  he rhetorically invoked the
                                                                              to trace his descent through

an ape as his grandfather, would he be willing to trace his descent simi
larly on the side of his grandmother ? ' His false humour was an attempt to
arouse the antipathy about degrading woman to the quadrumana. Your father's

reply showed there was vulgarity as well as folly in the Bishop's words; and the im-

184 CHAP. XIV

     This was the fatal mistake of his speech. Huxley in

stantly grasped the tactical advantage which the descent to
personalities gave him. He turned to Sir Benjamin Brodie,
who was sitting beside him, and emphatically striking his
hand upon his knee, exclaimed, " The Lord hath delivered
him into mine hands." The bearing of the exclamation
did not dawn upon Sir Benjamin until after Huxley
had completed his " forcible and eloquent " answer to the
scientific part of the Bishop's argument, and proceeded to

make his famous retort.*

     On this (continues the writer in Macmillan's Magazine) Mr.

Huxley slowly and deliberately arose. A slight tall figure, stern

tahnodsepatlree,mveenrdyouqsuiewt oradnsd--vewryordgsravweh,2ichhensotooonde       before   us and spoke
                                                                                   seems    sure of now,
Inor, think, could remember just after they were spoken, for their

meaning took away our breath, though it left us in no doubt as to
what it was. He was not ashamed to have a monkey for his

ancestor ; but he would be ashamed to be connected with a man

who used great gifts to obscure the truth. No one doubted his

meaning, and the effect was tremendous. One lady fainted and
had to be carried out ; I, for one, jumped out of my seat.

     The fullest and probably most accurate account of these
concluding words is the following, from a letter of the late

pression distinctly was, that the Bishop's party, as they left the room, felt abashed,
and recognised that the Bishop had forgotten to behave like a perfect gentleman."
     1 The Athenaum reports him as saying that Darwin's theory was an
explanation of phenomena in Natural History, as the undulatory theory was of the
phenomena of light. No one objected to that theory because an undulation of

light had never been arrested and measured. Darwin's theory was an explana
tion of facts, and his book was full of new facts, all bearing on his theory.
Without asserting that every part of that theory had been confirmed, he main

tained that it was the best explanation of the origin of species which had yet been
offered. With regard to
man himself was once a   tmheonpasdyc--hoalogmicearle  distinction          between         men and     animals,
                                                       atom, and            nobody          could say   at what

moment in the history of his development he became consciously intelligent.
The question was not so much one of a transmutation or transition of species, as
of the production of forms which became permanent.
Thus the short-legged sheep of America was not produced gradually, but
originated in the birth of an original parent of the whole stock, which had been
kept up by a rigid system of artificial selection.
     - "Young, cool, quiet, scientific -- scientific   in fact and in treatment. "--J. R.
Green. A certain piquancy must have been added to the situation by the super
ficial resemblance in feature between the two men, so different in temperament
                                                                                                        to Mr.
and expression.    Inwdheoedhisngeuxetstdwayas,atsayHinagr,dw"icSkuere, ly  a      friend   came up     Bishop
Fanning and asked                                                                   is the  son of the
of Oxford."                                                                    it

186o SPEECH AT OXFORD

John Richard Green, then                                                                       Daanwkuinnsde1rg:--raduate,                         to his friend,
afterwards Professor Boyd

          II asserted --and                                                                    repeat --that a man has no reason to be
Ifashamed of having an ape for his grandfather.
Iancestor                                                                                                                                          there were an

man -- a                                                                                       feel shame in                 it would              rather be a
          whom    should                                                                         and versatile  recalling                          not content
          man of  restless                                                                                        intellect  --who,

with an equivocal 2 success in his own sphere of activity, plunges

into scientific questions with which he has no real acquaintance, only

to obscure them by an aimless rhetoric, and distract the attention of

his hearers from the real point at issue by eloquent digressions and

skilled appeals to religious prejudice.3

      Further, Mr.    A. G. Vernon- Harcourt, F.R.S.,                                                                                              Reader        in
Chemistry at the      University of Oxford, writes to
                                                                                                                                                   me :--

          The Bishop had rallied your father as to the descent from a

monkey, asking as a sort of joke how recent this had been, whether
it was his grandfather or further back. Your father, in replying on
this point, first explained that the suggestion was of descent through

thousands   eofffegcet n--era"tiBounts                                                          from a common ancestor,      and then went
on to this                                                                                     if this question is treated,  not as a matter

for the calm investigation of science, but as a matter of sentiment,

Iand if I am asked whether would choose to be descended from

the poor animal of low intelligence and stooping gait, who grins and

chatters as we pass,  or from a man,                                                                   etnhdeosewegdiftsw"ith[hegrree,atasabthileitypoainndt
a splendid position,  who should use

Ibecame clear, there was                                                                       saengtreenacte]out"btuorsdt isocfreadpiptlaausned,  which mostly
                                                                                                                                                   crush humble
drowned the end of the
seekers after truth, hesitate what answer to make."

No doubt your father's words were better than these, and they

gained effect from his clear, deliberate utterance, but in outline

and in scale this represents truly what was said.

     After the commotion was over, " some voices called for
Hooker, and his name having been handed up, the President

"I1 The writer in Macmillan' s tells me :                                                                       cannot quite accept Mr. J. R.
IGreen's sentences as your father's, though I didn't doubt that they convey the
sense ; but then  think that only a shorthand writer could reproduce Mr.
                                                                                                 style -- so simple and
g"HivueexqnflueivMyiso'yscmalsuficna"hgthuientlaor rotlhyoi'ns Gcesbrpeeeeatenuoc.tl'dihfu."l                               so incisive. The sentence
                                                                                               me that he did not
                                                                                                  (See his letter below.)  remember using the word
                                                                                                                              The late Professor Victor

Carus      had the same impression,                                                            which   is corroborated     by Professor              Farrar.  "  The
       5  As the late Henry Fawcett                                                             wrote  in Macmillan's       Magazine,
                                                                                                                                                   1860 :--

retort was so justly deserved, and so inimitable in its manner, that no one who

was present can ever forget the impression that it made."

186             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                               chap, x1v

invited him to give his view of the theory from the Botanical

side. This he did, demonstrating that the Bishop, by his
own showing, had never grasped the principles of the

' Origin,' and that he was absolutely ignorant of the elements
of botanical science. The Bishop made no reply, and the
meeting broke up." 1

Account of the Oxford Meet1ng by the Rev. W. H.

       Freemantle (in Charles Darwin, his Life Told, &c,
        1892, p. 238).

     The Bishop of Oxford attacked Darwin, at first playfully, but at
last in grim earnest. It was known that the Bishop had written an
article against Darwin in the last Quarterly Revinv ; 2 it was also

rumoured that Professor Owen had been staying at Cuddesdon and

had primed the Bishop, who was to act as mouthpiece to the great
Palaeontologist, who did not himself dare to enter the lists. The

Bishop, however, did not show himself master of the facts, and made

one serious blunder. A fact which had been much dwelt on as

confirmatory of Darwin's idea of variation, was that a sheep had

been born shortly before in a flock in the North of England, having

an addition of one to the vertebrae of the spine. The Bishop was

"Iedhveeicdleeanxrccinelagimoewndi.tDharrwh"ienSt'osomriseciadelr.uemxao"gugWreerhdaatitosnthaatevmteheanttht etyhaebtrooeutbwraiansg  hfaorrdwlayrdan? y"
                                                                                                                                       long-legged

sheep." But he passed on to banter:                          should like to ask

Professor Huxley, who is sitting by me, and is about to tear me to

Ipieces when have sat down, as to his belief in being descended

from an   ape.     Is it on his  girnan? d"fathAern'sd  or his grandmother's side
that the  ape   ancestry comes                          then taking a graver tone,

he asserted, in a solemn peroration, that Darwin's views were

contrary to the revelation of God in the Scriptures. Professor

Huxley was unwilling to respond    : but he             was called       for,                                                          and spoke
with his usual incisiveness and    with some             scorn : "                                                                      here only
                                                                        I am
Iin the interests of science," he said, " and have not heard anything
which can prejudice the case of my august client." Then after

showing how little competent the Bishop was to                         en"teYrouupsoany                                                 the
discussion, he touched on the question of Creation.                                                                                    that

development drives out the Creator ; but you assert that God made

you : and yet you know that you yourself were originally a little

piece of matter,   no bigger than  the end               of   this  :  go"ldI   pencil-case."
Lastly as to the   descent from a  monkey,              he   said              should feel it

                -               1 Life of Darwin, I.e.       for July.
                   It appeared in the ensuing number

i860 CANON FREEMANTLES ACCOUNT                                       187

no shame to have risen from such an origin ; but I should feel it

a shame to have sprung from one who prostituted the gifts of
culture and eloquence to the service of prejudice and of false
hood."

      Many others spoke. Mr. Gresley, an old Oxford don, pointed
out that in human nature at least orderly development was not the
necessary rule : Homer was the greatest of poets, but he lived 3000
years ago, and has not produced his like.

      Admiral FitzRoy was present, and said he had often expostulated
with his old comrade of the Beagle for entertaining views which were
contradictory to the First Chapter of Genesis.

     Sir John Lubbock declared that many of the arguments by
which the permanence of species was supported came to nothing,

and instanced some wheat which was said to have come off an

Egyptian mummy, and was sent to him to prove that wheat had not
changed since the time of the Pharaohs ; but which proved to be
made of French chocolate. Sir Joseph (then Dr.) Hooker spoke
shortly, saying that he had found the hypothesis of Natural

Selection so helpful in explaining the phenomena of his own
subject of Botany, that he had been constrained to accept it.
After a few words from Darwin's old friend, Professor Henslow,

who occupied the chair, the meeting broke up, leaving the impres
sion that those most capable of estimating the arguments of Darwin
in detail saw their way to accept his conclusions.

Note. --Sir John Lubbock also insisted on the embryological
evidence for evolution.                              F. D.

T. H. Huxley to Francis Darwin {ibid.)

                                                     Junc 27, 1891.

I should say that Fremantle's account is substantially correct,

I Ibut that Green has the substance of my speech more accurately.

However, am certain did not use the word, "equivocal."
The odd part of the business
                                    I      that should not have been
                                        is,
present except for Robert Chambers.        had heard of the Bishop's
                                        II
                                             I
intention to utilise the occasion.  knew he had the reputation of

being a first-class controversialist, and was quite aware that       he
                                                     I
played his cards properly, we should have little chance, with suchI

an audience, of making an efficient defence. Moreover, was veryit if

tired, and wanted to join my wife at her brother-in-law's country

house near Reading, on the Saturday. On the Friday                 met

Chambers in the street, and in      reply  to some   rmemeaanrktoofathtiesn, dabo--ut
his going to the meeting, said      that    did not
                         I
                                      I

did not see the good of giving up peace and quietness to be episco

pally pounded. Chambers broke out into vehement remonstrances,

                  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, xiv

Iand talked about my deserting them. So said, " Oh ! if you are

going to take it that way, I'll come and have my share of what is

Igoing on."
      So came, and chanced to sit near old Sir Benjamin Brodie.
The Bishop began his speech, and to my astonishment very soon

showed that he was so ignorant that he did not know how to manage

Ihis own case. My spirits rose proportionately, and when he
turned   to me with  "hiTshiensoLleonrdt         question,         said  to Sir Benjamin,
in an    undertone,                                                      him into mine
                                                 hath delivered

hands."
IThat sagacious old gentleman stared at me as if had lost my
Isenses. But, in fact, the Bishop had justified the severest retort
I Icould devise, and made up my mind to let him have it.
                                                                                  was

Icmaere--fult,henhowelveet r,mynsoetlf  to rise  to reply,  until  the meeting  called for
                                        go.
In justice to the Bishop, I am bound to say he bore no

malice, but was always courtesy itself when we occasionally met
Iin after years. Hooker and walked away from the meeting
Itogether, and
                  remember saying to him that this experience had

changed my opinion as to the practical value of the art of public

Ispeaking, and that from that time forth should carefully cultivate

and try to leave off hating                      did the former, but never quite
it,

  I
                                                             it.
                                    I
                                                                                  a

                                                                        I
succeeded in the latter effort.

         did not  mean to trouble you with such                       long scrawl when
                  this piece of ancient history.
began about                                                        -- Ever yours very
faithfully,                                                        T. H. Huxley.

In the evening there was a crowded conversazione in Dr.

Daubeny's rooms, and here, continues the writer in Macmillan's,
" everyone was eager to congratulate the hero of the day.
                                                                   '
remember that some naive person wished
                                                                     it

                                                                                      '

                                                                                               aI
                                                                         could come over

again  '      Mr. Huxley, with the look on his face of the victor
          ;

            is
who feels the cost of victory, put us aside saying, Once in
lifetime enough, not too much.' "
                     a if

                                   it

                                           a
In letter to me the same writer remarks --
I

        a
         gathered from Mr. Huxley's look when                      I     spoke to him at

Dr. Daubeny's that   he townaes--not             quite satisfied   to have been forced
to take so personal                                little jarred   upon his fine taste.

But was the Bishop who first struck the insolent note of personal
it

attack.

      Again, with    reference                   to the state      of feeling   at the

meeting --
         :

i860 RESULT OF THE MEETING                                         189

Ibitter  never saw such a display of       fbiefearscttheoewrp'esadrt--ysids(epIi--ritm, aesathnewetlhoeopakssmseaodf
          hatred which the audience
jority)
           on us who were on your

t"hrhoouwghabotmheinacbrlyowtdhe  we felt   that we     w"e--reor  expected to say
                                  Bishop   was treated              to be considered

outcasts and detestable.

   It was very different, however, at Dr. Daubeny's, " where,"
says the writer of the account in Darwin's Life, " the almost
sole topic was the battle of the ' Origin,' and I was much struck

with the fair and unprejudiced way in which the black coats

and white cravats of Oxford discussed the question, and the

frankness with which they offered their congratulations to

the winners in the combat."
      The result of this encounter, though a check to the

other side, cannot, of course, be represented as an immediate
and complete triumph for evolutionary doctrine. This was
precluded by the character and temper of the audience, most
of whom were less capable of being convinced by the argu
ments than shocked by the boldness of the retort, although,

being gentlefolk, as Professor Farrar remarks, they were

disposed to admit on reflection that the Bishop had erred
on the score of taste and good manners. Nevertheless, it
was a noticeable feature of the occasion, Sir M. Foster
tells me, that when Huxley rose he was received coldly,
just a cheer of encouragement from his friends, the audience

as a whole not joining in it. But as he made his points
the applause grew and widened, until, when he sat down,

the cheering was not very much less than that given to the
Bishop. To that extent he carried an unwilling audience
with him by the force of his speech. The debate on the

ape question, however, was continued elsewhere during the

next two years, and the evidence was completed by the
unanswerable demonstrations of Sir W. H. Flower at the
Cambridge meeting of the Association in 1862.

      The importance of the Oxford meeting lay in the

open resistance that was made to authority, at a moment

when even a drawn battle was hardly less effectual than
acknowledged victory. Instead of being crushed under

 ridicule, the new theories secured a hearing, all the wider,
 indeed, for the startling nature of their defence.

CHAPTER XV

1 860-1 863

IN the autumn he set to work to make good his promise
of demonstrating the existence in the simian brain of the

structures alleged to be exclusively human. The result was
seen in his papers " On the Zoological Relations of Man
with the Lower Animals" {Nat. Hist. Rev., 1861, pp.
67-68); "On the Brain of Ateles Paniscus," which ap

peared in the Proceedings  of the Zoological Society  for 1861,
and on " Nyctipithecus "                              work was
                           in 1862, while similar

undertaken by his friends Rolleston and Flower. But the

brain was only one point among many, as, for example, the

hand and the foot in man and the apes ; and he already

had in mind the discussion    of the   whole    qJ.ueHsotiooknerco:--mpre
hensively. On January 6                 to Sir
                            he writes

    Some of these days I shall look up the ape question again and

Igo over the rest of the organisation in the same way. But in order

to get a thorough grip of the question must examine into a good
many points for myself. The results, when they do come out, will,

I foresee, astonish the natives.

      Full of interest in this theme, he made it the subject of
his popular lectures in the spring of 1861.

      Thus from February to May he lectured weekly to
working men on " The Relation of Man to the rest of the

Animal Kingdom," and on March 22 writes to his wife :--

     My working men stick by me wonderfully, the house being
fuller than ever last night. By next Friday evening they will all
be convinced that they are monkeys. . . . Said lecture, let me in
form you, was very good. Lyell came and was rather astonished
at the magnitude and attentiveness of the audience.

1861 THE HIPPOCAMPUS                                                              19'

      These lectures to working men were published in the
Natural History Review, as was a Friday evening discourse
at the Royal Institution (February 8) on " The Nature of
the Earliest Stages of Development of Animals."

      Meanwhile the publication of these researches led to

another pitched battle, in which public interest was pro
foundly engaged. The controversy which raged had some
resemblance to a duel over a point of honour and credit.

Scientific technicalities became the catchwords of society,
and the echoes of the great Hippocampus question linger in
the delightful pages of the Water-Babies. Of this fight

Huxley writes to Sir J. Hooker on April 18, 1861 :--

A controversy between Owen and myself, which I can only
                                 is no doubt whatever
call  absurd   (as there                               about      the facts),     has
been   going  on in the        Athenaum, and I wound   it up      in disgust      last

week.

      And again on April 27 :--

Owen occupied an entirely untenable position -- but I am never

theless surprised he did not try "abusing plaintiff's attorney." The

fact is he made a prodigious blunder in commencing the attack, and

now his only chance is to be silent and let people forget the

exposure. I do not believe that in the whole history of science

there is a case of any man of reputation getting himself into such

a contemptible position. He will be the laughing-stock of all the

continental anatomists.

Rolleston has a great deal of Oxford slough to shed, but on

that very ground his testimony has been of most especial service.

Fancy that man                 telling Maskelyne that Rolleston's observa

tions were entirely confirmatory of Owen.

      About the same time he writes to his wife :--

     April 1 6. -- People are talking a good deal about the " Man and
the Apes " question, and I hear that somebody, I suspect Monckton

Milnes, has set afloat a poetical squib on the subject.* . . . Some

1 The squib in question, dated " the Zoological Gardens," and signed
la"Gorilla," appeared in

animal, bearing the sign,
                               "PuAnmch  for May 15, 1861, under  a  picture      of that
                                            Man and a Brother?"
The concluding verses run as follows :--
                                           " To twice slay the slain "
       Next   (HKUKfXijLVEhYe  Replies    (ThusByHdUintXoLfEthYe  Brain
       That                    lies                               concludes
      And garbles his Latin quotation ;
       That his facts are not new,         Is but labour in vain,            his  renew).

           His mistakes not a few,               Unproductive     of gain.    I"
      Detrimental to his reputation.      And so I shall bid      you "Adieu

1Q2

think my winding-up too strong, but I trust the day will never come
Iwhen shall abstain from expressing my contempt for those who
Iprostitute Science to the Service of Error. At anyrate am not old
Ienough for that yet. Darwin came in just now.
                                                 get no scold

ings for pitching into the common enemy now ! !

     I would give you fifty guesses (he writes to Hooker on April

I30), and you should not find out the author of the Punch poem.
   saw it in MS. three weeks ago, and was told the author was

a friend of mine. But I remained hopelessly in the dark till

yesterday. What do you say to Sir Philip Egerton coming out in

that line ? I am told he is the author, and the fact speaks volumes

for Owen's perfect success in damning himself.

     In the midst of the fight came a      surprising  invitation.

On   April 10 he writes to his wife :--

     They have written to me from the      Pohnilothsoep"hiRcaellatiIonnstitoufteMaonf

Edinburgh to

Ito the Lower
     ask me   t"o   give  two lectures     have  rewpliilel ddothaitt--ifif  they
     Animals       next   session.         days                              not,
Ican give me January 3 and 7 for lecture

not. Fancy unco guid Edinburgh requiring illumination on the

subject ! They know my views, so if they do not like what I shall

have to tell them, it is their own fault.

      These lectures were eventually delivered on January 4
and 7, 1862, and were well reported in the Edinburgh
papers. The substance of them appears as Part 2 in
Man's Place in Nature, the first lecture describing the
general nature of the process of development among verte
brate animals, and the modifications of the skeleton in the

mammalia ; the second dealing with the crucial points of

comparison between the higher apes and man, viz. the hand,
foot, and brain. He showed that the differences between

man and the higher apes were no greater than those between

the higher and lower apes. If the Darwinian hypothesis

explained the common ancestry of the latter, the anatomist
would have no difficulty with the origin of man, so far as

regards the gap between him and the higher apes.
      Yet, though convinced that " that hypothesis is as near

an approximation to the truth as, for example, the Coper-
nican hypothesis was to the true theory of the planetary
motions," he steadfastly refused to be an advocate of the

theory, " if by an advocate is meant one whose business it

1862 EDINBURGH LECTURES ON MAN 193

is to smooth over real difficulties, and to persuade when he

cannot convince."

      In common fairness he warned his audience of the

one missing link in the chain of evidence -- the fact that

selective breeding has not yet produced species sterile to

one another. But it is to be adopted as a working hypo

thesis like other scientific generalisations, "subject to the

production of proof that physiological species may be pro

duced by selective breeding ; just as a physical philosopher
may accept the undulatory theory of light, subject to the

proof of the existence of the hypothetical ether ; or as the
chemist adopts the atomic theory, subject to the proof of the

existence of atoms ; and for exactly the same reasons,
namely, that it has an immense amount of prima facie pro

bability ; that it is the only means at present within reach
of reducing the chaos of observed facts to order ; and lastly,
that it is the most powerful instrument of investigation

which has been presented to naturalists since the invention

of the natural system of classification, and the commence

ment of the systematic study of embryology."

      As for the repugnance of most men to admitting kinship
with the apes, " thoughtful men," he says, "once escaped from

the blinding influences of traditional prejudices, will find in

the lowly stock whence man has sprung the best evidence

of the splendour of his capacities ; and will discern, in his
long progress through the past, a reasonable ground of faith

in his attainment of a nobler future."

     A simile, with which he enforced this elevating point of

view, which has since eased the passage of many minds to

the acceptance of evolution, seems to have been much ap

preciated by his audience. It was a comparison of man to

the Alps, which turn out to be " of one substance with the

dullest clay, but raised by inward forces to that place of

proud and seemingly inaccessible glory."

The lectures were met at first with astonishing quiet,

but it was not long before the stones began to fly. The

Witness of January 1 1 lashed itself into a fury over the fact
that the audience applauded this " anti-scriptural and most

debasing theory . . . standing in blasphemous contradic

tion to biblical narrative and doctrine," instead of express

VOL. I                                        O

>94              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap, xv

ing their resentment at this " foul outrage committed upon
them individually, and upon the whole species as ' made in
the likeness of God,'" by deserting the hall in a body, or
using some more emphatic form of protest against the
corruption of youth by "the vilest and beastliest paradox

ever vented in ancient or modern times amongst Pagans or
Christians." In his finest vein of sarcasm, the writer ex

presses his surprise that the meeting did not instantly resolve
itself into a " Gorilla Emancipation Society," or propose to
hear a lecture from an apostle of Mormonism ; " even this
would be a less offensive, mischievous, and inexcusable ex

hibition than was made in the recent two lectures by Pro

fessor Huxley," etc.

                              Jermyn Street, January 13, 1862.

    IMy dear Darwin --In the first place a new year's greeting to

you and yours. In the next, enclose this slip (please return it

when you have read        to show you what have been doing the
              I
north.                 is
                              it)
                            I
                                   I
                                                  I
                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                        !

                                                           I
                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                                                   !
     Everybody prophesied should be stoned and cast out of the

city gate, but, on the contrary, met with unmitigated applause

Three cheers for the progress of liberal opinion
     The report
                 as good as any, but they have not put quite

rightly what said about your views, respecting which took my

old line about the infertility difficulty.

     Furthermore, they have not reported my statement that whether

you were right or wrong, some form of the progressive develop
ment theory certainly true. Nor have they reported here my
I
         I

                     is

                     II
distinct statement that believe man and the apes to have come

from one stock.

     Having got thus far, find the lecture better reported in the

Courant, so send you that instead.

the    mean   to publish  t--heElveectruryeouirns  full by and by (about the time
     orchids  come out).                           faithfully,

                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

is      deserved the greatest credit for not having made an onslaught

on Brewster for his foolish impertinence about your viewsI in  Good

Words, but declined to stir nationality, which you know (in him)
rather more than his Bible.

                              Jermyn Street, January 16, 1862.

     My dear Hooker -- wonder we are ever to meet again in
                          II                       if

this world At anyrate         send to the remote province of Kew,
        !

Greeting, and my best wishes for the new year to you and yours.

1862 EDINBURGH LECTURES ON MAN                                                      195

I also inclose a slip from an Edinburgh paper containing a report
of my lecture on the "Relation of Man," etc. As you will see, I

I Iwent in for the entire animal more strongly, in fact, than they have
reported me.  told them in so many words that entertained no

doubt of the origin of man from the same stock as the apes.

     And to my great delight,                        in   saintly Edinburgh itself the
announcement met with nothing                        but
                                                          applause. For myself I can't

say that the praise or blame of my audience was much matter, but

it is a grand indication of the general disintegration of old pre

judices which is going on.

    I shall see if I cannot make something more of the lectures
by delivering them again in London, and then I shall publish

them.
IThe report does not put nearly strong enough what
Ifavour of Darwin's views.                                                          said in

                                      affirmed it to be the only scientific
hypothesis of the origin of species in existence, and expressed my
Ibelief

always
       that   the one          gap  in the evidence            would be filled up, as
        do.                  yours  faithfully,                        T. H. Huxley.
             -- Ever

                                              JERMYN STREET, January 20, 1862.

My dear Darwin -- The inclosed article, which has been followed

up by another more violent, more scurrilously personal, and more

foolish, will prove to you that my labour has not been in vain, and

that your views and mine are likely to be better ventilated in Scot

Iland than they have been.

         was quite uneasy at getting no attack from the Witness, think

Iing must have overestimated the impression I had made, and the
favourableness of the reception of what I said. But the raving of

the Witness is clear testimony that my notion was correct.

    I shall send a short reply to the Scotsman for the purpose of

further advertising the question.

    With regard to what are especially your doctrines, I spoke much
Imore favourably than I am reported to have done. I expressed no

doubt as to their ultimate establishment, but as particularly

Iwished not to be misrepresented as an advocate trying to soften or
explain away real difficulties,       did not in speaking enter into the

Idetails of what is to be said in diminishing the weight of the
hybrid difficulty. All this will be put fully when                                  print the

Lecture.                                                                    which I have urged

 The      aprgeuompleen--ts   put in  oypopuorsilteettersidaere--thoovseer  and over again.
other                        of the
Ito
have told my students that I entertain no doubt that twenty years'

experiments on pigeons conducted by a skilled physiologist, instead

Iof by a mere breeder, would give us physiological species sterile inter
se, from  a  dcoomyomurosnelfs),tocaknd(anI dhainve  this, if      mistake  not, I  go further
than you                                               told    them that             these ex
                                                                             when

196           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, xv

periments have been performed I shall consider your views to

have a complete physical basis, and to stand on as firm ground as

any physiological theory whatever.

    It was impossible for me, in the time I had, to lay all this down

to my Edinburgh audience, and in default of full explanation it was
Ifar better to seem to do scanty justice to you.
                                                          am constitution
Ially slow of adopting any theory that must needs stick by when
I have once gone in for it ; but for these two years I have been

gravitating towards your doctrines, and since the publication of your

Iprimula paper with accelerated velocity. By about this time next

year expect to have shot past you, and to find you pitching into

me for being more Darwinian than yourself. However, you have

set me going, and must just take the consequences, for I warn you
I will stop at no point so long as clear reasoning will carry me

further.

    IMy wife and I were very grieved to hear you had had such a

sick house, but hope the change in the weather has done you all

good. Anything is better than the damp warmth we had.
     I Iwill take great care of the three "Barriers." 1 wanted to cut
Iit up

tions
      in the  Saturday, but    how am to fulfil      my   benevolent inten
              five lectures a                        the  Royal Institution
     -- with                   week -- a lecture at
Iand heaps of other things on my hands, don't know. -- Ever yours
                                                     T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

    I am very glad to hear about Brown Sequard ; he is a thoroughly

good man, and told me it was worth while to come all the way to
Oxford to hear the Bishop pummelled.

      In the above-mentioned letter to the Scotsman of

January 24 he expresses his unfeigned satisfaction at the
fulfilment of the three objects of his address, namely, to
state fully and fairly his conclusions, to avoid giving un
necessary offence, and thirdly, " while feeling assured of the
just and reasonable dealing of the respectable part of the

Scottish press, I naturally hoped for noisy injustice and

unreason from the rest, seeing, as I did, the best security for
the dissemination of my views through regions which they
might not otherwise reach, in the certainty of a violent

attack by (the Witness)."
      The applause of the audience, he says, afforded him

genuine satisfaction, "because it bids me continue in the

     1 A pamphlet called "The Three Barriers, by G. R., being notes on Mr.
Darwin's Origin of Species, 1861, 8vo." Habitat, structure, and procreative

power are given as these three barriers to Darwinism, against which natural
theology takes its stand on Final Causes.

1862 BEGINS ANTHROPOLOGICAL WORK                           197

faith on which I acted, that a man who speaks out honestly

and fearlessly that which he knows, and that which he

believes, will always enlist the good-will and the respect,
however much he may fail in winning the assent, of his

fellow-men."

About this time a new field of interest was opened out

to him, closely connected with, indeed, and completing, the

ape question. Sir Charles Lyell was engaged in writing
his Antiquity of Man, and asked Huxley to supply him
with various anatomical data touching the ape question, and
later to draw him a diagram illustrating the peculiarities of the

newly-discovered Neanderthal skull as compared with other
skulls. He points out in his letters to Lyell that the range of

cranial capacity  between the  highest   and the lowest German
                   mediatised  princes,
-- "one of the                            I suppose"1 -- or the

Malayan or Peruvian, is almost 1 00 per cent ; in absolute
amount twice as much as the difference between that of the

largest simian and the smallest human capacity, so that in

seeking an ordinal difference between man and the apes,

" it would certainly be well to let go the head, though I

am afraid it does not mend matters much to lay hold of

the foot."

     And on January 25, 1862 :--

    I have been skull-measuring all day at the College of Surgeons.

The Neanderthal skull may be described as a slightly exaggerated
modification of one of the two types (and the lower) of Australian

skulls.

     After the fashion of accounting for the elephant of old, I

suppose it will be said that it was imported. But luckily the
differences, though only of degree, are rather too marked for this

Ihypothesis.      had a clear six months to work at the subject.
    I only wish
ILittle did dream what the undertaking to arrange your three
Iwoodcuts would lead to. It will come in the long-run, believe, to

a new ethnological method, new modes of measurement, a new

datum line, and new methods of registration.

    If one had but two heads and neither required sleep !

     One immediate result of his investigations, which ap-

     1 The minor princes of Germany, whose territories were annexed to larger
states, and who thus exchanged a direct for a mediate share in the imperial
government.

               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap, xv

peared in a lecture at the Royal Institution (February 7,

1862), "On the Fossil Remains of Man," was incorpor

ated in Man's Place in Nature. But a more important

consequence of this impulse was that he went seriously
into the study of Ethnology. Of his work in this branch

of natural science, Professor Virchow, speaking at the

dinner given him by the English medical profession on
October 5, 1898, declared that in the eyes of German

savants it alone would suffice to secure immortal reverence

for his name.

      The concluding stage in the long controversy raised first
at Oxford, was the British Association meeting at Cambridge

in 1862. It was here that Professor (afterwards Sir W.
H.) Flower made his public demonstration of the existence
in apes of the cerebral characters said to be peculiar to

man.

     From the 1st to the 9th of October Huxley stayed at
Cambridge as the guest of Professor Fawcett at Trinity Hall,

running over to Felixstow on the 5 th to see his wife, whose
health did not allow her to accompany him.

      As President of Section D he had a good deal to

do, and he describes the course of events in a letter to

Darwin :--

                               26 Abbey Place, Oct. 9, 1862.

    My dear Darwin --It is a source of sincere pleasure to me
Ito learn that anything I can say or do is a pleasure to you, and

Iwas therefore very glad to get your letter at that whirligig of an associa

tion meeting the other day. We all missed you, but think it was
Ias well you did not come, for though am pretty tough, as you
know, I found the pace rather
                               tkhiellingU. niveNrostithyingpecoopuleld--eaxnceded    the
hospitality and kindness of                                                         that,

together with a great deal of speaking on the top of a very bad

Icold, which contrived to catch just before going down, has

somewhat used me up.

Owen came down with the obvious intention of attacking me

on all points. Each of his papers was an attack, and he went so

far as to offer stupid and unnecessary opposition to proposals of

....mine in my own committee. However, he got himself sold at all
points         The Polypterus paper and the Aye-Aye paper fell

flat. The latter was meant to raise a discussion on your views, but

Iit was all a stale hash, and only made some half sarcastic remarks

which stopped any further attempts at discussion. . . .

1862 'MAN'S PLACE IN NATURE                                                             '99

       I took my book to Scotland but did nothing. I shall ask leave
                a bit or two as I get on. -- Ever yours,
to send   you                                                            Huxley.
                                                                  T. H.

of   A   "wSoorlcdie"tywfaosr   the propagation of common        honesty in all parts
                                                                 want you to belong
    the                        established at Cambridge. I

to but will say more about by and by.
    I it,                      a
             :This admirable society, which was also to " search fora
          I                              it
scientific truth, especially in biology," seems to have been
                                          I
but short lived. At all events, can find only two references
                                                           7
to subsequent meetings, on October and December 19 in

this year.                                       final blow was struck in the

     A few days later

battle over the ape question.                              He writes on October         1

how he has written                               letter  to the Medical Times-- his       is 5

last word on    the            subject,          summing up      in  most               emphatic

terms --

          have written the letter with the greatest care, and there.
nothing coarse or violent in it. But shall put an end to all the
humbug that has been going on. . . Rolleston will come out  it
with his letter in the same number, and the smash will be awful, but

most thoroughly merited.

       These several pieces of work, struck out at different

times in response to various impulses, were now combined

and re-shaped into Man's Place in Nature, the first book

which    was published by                      --him.    Thus he writes to Sir Charles
Lyell    on May 1862
                I
                        5,

                      I
                                              :
     Of course shall be delighted to discuss anything with you,*

and the more so as mean to put the whole question before the

world in another shape in my little book, whose title announced
                                                                I
as Evidences as to Man's Place in Nature.                                           is
                                                                 have written the

first essays, the second containing the substance of my Edinburgh

Lecture.        recollect you once asked me for something to quote
is

           I
on the Man question, so you want anything in that way the MS.
                               if
    at your service.
                                              :
       Lyell looked            over the          p--roofs,  and  the following          letters
       in reply to his          criticisms
are

       Referring to the address on " Geological1                Contemporaneity " delivered in

1862 at the Geological Society, see p. 206.

200             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                chap, xv

                                             Ardrishaig, Loch Fyne,

                                                   Aug, 17, 1862.

    My dear Sir Charles --I take advantage of my first quiet
Iday to reply to your letter of the 9th ; and in the first place let

me thank you very much for your critical remarks, as shall find

them of great service.
      With regard to such matters as verbal mistakes, you must

recollect that the greater part of the proof was wholly uncorrected.

But the reader might certainly do his work better. I do not think

you will find room to complain of any want of distinctness in my

definition of Owen's position touching the Hippocampus question.
I mean to give
                the whole   history of the   business in a note, so that
the paraphrase  of Sir Ph.  Egerton's line   " To which Huxley replies

that Owen he lies," shall be unmistakable.1
     I will take care about the Cheiroptera, and I will look at
Lamarck again. But I doubt if I shall
                                             improve   my    --estsimtilaltelesos f                                      the
latter. The notion of common descent          was not   his                                                             that
of modification by variation -- and he was as far as De Maillet from

seeing his way to any vera causa by which varieties might be

intensified into species.     natural   selection  --the  discovery of this

    If Darwin is right about

     causa sets him to     --myanmdind   in a different
     all his predecessors               should no more
vera                                                     region altogether
                                                          call his doctrine
Ifrom
Ia modification of Lamarck's than should call the Newtonian theory

of the celestial motions a modification of the Ptolemaic system.

Ptolemy imagined a mode of explaining those motions. Newton

Iproved their necessity from the laws and a force demonstrably in
operation. If he is only right Darwin will, think, take his place
with such men as Harvey, and even if he is wrong his sobriety

and accuracy of thought will put him on a far different level from
I I I"Laumncairarccmku.mdcisipsoewsdeadn"t--ttoopamartgalrykeeefotwrhiiytshoucylreoaurreatsaoobnopsue,topptlaehr.etly"
                                                          emasculate                                                     " and
                                                          because                                                       believe

it is an excellent rule always to erase anything that strikes one as
particularly smart when writing it. But it is a great piece of

I Iself-denial to abstain from expressing my peculiar antipathy to
the people indicated, and hope               shall be rewarded for the

virtue.                                 only wished to guard myself from
                                           had any comprehension of the
   IAs to the secondary causes
Ibeing understood to imply that
meaning of the term. If my phrase looks naughty I will alter it.
IWhat want is to be read, and therefore to give no unnecessary
Ihandle to the enemy. There will be row enough whatever do.

                              1 See p. 191.

1863 'MAN'S PLACE IN NATURE'                                 20I

Our Commission here 1 implicates us in an inquiry of some

Idifficulty, and which involves the interests of a great many poor
people.  am afraid it will not leave me very much leisure. But

we are in the midst of a charming country, and the work is not
Ifunpleasant or uninteresting.
                                  the sun would only shine more
than once a week it would be
                              perfect. -- With kind remembrances
                                              T. H. Huxley.
to Lady Lyell, believe me, faithfully yours,

      We shall be here for the next ten days at least.  But my wife
will always know my whereabouts.

                                                       Jermyn Street, March 23, 1863.

    My dear Sir Charles --I suspect that the passage to which

you refer must have been taken from my unrevised proofs, for it
corresponds very nearly with what is written at p. 97 of my book.

      Flower has recently discovered that the Siamang's brain affords
an even more curious exception to the general rule than that of
Mycetes, as the cerebral hemispheres leave part not only of the
sides but of the hinder end of the cerebellum uncovered.

      As it is one of the Anthropoid apes and yet differs in this
respect far more widely from the gorilla than the gorilla differs from
man, it offers a charming example of the value of cerebral

characters.

      Flower publishes a paper on the subject in the forthcoming
number of the N. H. Review.

      Might it not be well to allude to the fact that the existence of
the posterior lobe, posterior cornu, and hippocampus in the
Orang has been publicly demonstrated to an audience of experts at

the College of Surgeons ?-- Ever yours faithfully,
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

      The success of Man's Place was immediate, despite such
criticisms as that of the Athenaum, that " Lyell's object is to

make man old, Huxley's to degrade him." By the middle
of February it reached its second thousand ; in July it is

heard of as republished in America ; at the same time L.

Buchner writes that he wished to translate it into German,

but finds himself forestalled by Victor Carus. From another

aspect, Lord Enniskillen, thanking him for the book, says
"I(March 3),
              believe you are already excommunicated by

book, bell, and candle," while in an undated note, Bollaert
writes, " The Bishop of Oxford the other day spoke about

' the church having been in danger of late, by such books as

              1 The Fishery Commission.

202     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xv

Colenso's, but that it (the church) was now restored.' And
this at a time, he might have added, when the works of

Darwin, Lyell, and Huxley are torn from the hands of

Mudie's shopmen, as if they were novels -- (see Daily Tele

graph, April 10)."
      At the same time, the impression left by his work

upon the minds of the leading men of science may be judged

from a few words of Sir Charles Lyell, who writes to a friend
                                                           366): --
on March 15, 1863 (Life and Letters,
                                is

                                     !

                                    I

                                                 it
                                                       ii.

                                                          a
     Huxley's second thousand going off well. If he had leisure

like you and me, and the vigour and logic of the lectures, and his

address to the Geological Society, and half dozen other recent

works (letters to the Times on Darwin, etc.), had been all in one book,
what position he would occupy          entreated him not to under
     a

take the Natural History Review before        began. The responsi

bility all falls on the man of chief energy and talent                  ;

                                                                           it
                                                                                  is

                                                                                         a

quarterly mischief, and will end in knocking him up.

     II,A similar estimate appears from an earlier letter of
March   1859 (Life and Letters,         321 when he quotes
                                       ii.

                                                     ),

Huxley's opinion of Mansel's Bampton Lectures on the
Limits of Religious Thought: --

     A friend of mine, Huxley, who will soon take rank as one of

the first naturalists we have    ever produced, begged                  me to   read
these sermons as first rate, "  although, regarding the                 author  as
                  it.
                                                                  a

                                                is I

                                                                                        is
                                                                                                         a
churchman, you will probably compare him, as did, to the drunken

fellow in Hogarth's contested election, who sawing through the

signpost at the other party's public-house, forgetting he sitting at

the other end of  But read them as            piece of clear and un

answerable reasoning."

     In the 1894 preface to the re-issue of Man's Place in
the Collected Essays, Huxley speaks as follows of the warn

ings he received against publishing on so dangerous topic,
                                                                             a
of the storm which broke upon his      head, and                   the  small   it isresult
which, in the long run, produced                                                     is
                                         --
                            it it                                                         '.

                                 is

                                                1
                                                           1

                                                              :

                                                             a is
     Magna est Veritas et prcevalebit  Truth                      great, certainly, but
                                                                 long time she apt
considering her greatness,      curious what

a1   In September 1887 he wrote to Mr. Edward Clodd -- " All the proposi
tions laid down in the wicked book, which was so well anathematised a quarter
                                                                                              "
of century ago, are now taught in the text-books. What droll world
                                                                   a

                  'MAN'S PLACE IN NATURE'                              203

to take about prevailing. When, towards the end of 1862, I had
                                  "Nhaatudren, oIt
finished writing  Man's Place in                    could say with a good
conscience that   my conclusions                    been formed hastily or
enunciated crudely." I thought I had earned the right to publish
them, and even fancied I might be thanked rather than reproved for

doing so.  However, in my anxiety to publish nothing erroneous,
           highly competent anatomist and very good friend of
I asked a
mine to look through my proofs, and, if he could, point out any
errors of fact. I was well pleased when he returned them without

criticism on that score ; but my satisfaction was speedily dashed by

the very earnest warning as to the consequences of publication,
Iwhich my friend's interest in my welfare led him to give. But, as
Ihave confessed elsewhere, when
                                    was a young     man, there was just
a little -- a mere soupfon-- in my  composition     of that tenacity of
Ipurpose which has another name ; and felt sure that all the evil

things prophesied would not be so painful to me as the giving up

Ithat which had resolved to do, upon grounds which I conceived
to be right.1 So the book came out ; and I must do my friend the

justice to say that his forecast was completely justified. The
Boreas of criticism blew his hardest blasts of misrepresentation and

Iridicule for some years, and was even as one of the wicked.

Indeed, it surprises me at times to think how anyone who had

sunk so low could since have emerged into, at any rate, relative

                  Personally, like the non-corvine personages in the
Irespectability.
Ingoldsby legend, did not feel "one penny the worse." Trans

lated into several languages, the book reached a wider public than
I Ihad ever hoped for; being largely helped,
                                                    imagine, by the
IErnulphine advertisements to which referred. It has had the

honour of being freely utilised without acknowledgment by writers

of repute ; and finally it achieved the fate, which is the euthanasia

of a scientific work, of being inclosed among the rubble of the

foundations of later knowledge, and forgotten.

    To my observation, human nature has not sensibly changed
during the last thirty years. I doubt not that there are truths as

plainly obvious and as generally denied as those contained in

Man's Place in Nature, now awaiting enunciation. If there is a

Iyoung man of the present generation who has taken as much

trouble as did to assure himself that they are truths, let him come

out   with them, without troubling his head about       the            barking of
the                                                     day            ; and even
     dogs of St. Ernulphus. Veritas prcevalebit --some

     1 As to this advice not to publish Man's Place for fear of misrepresentation on
"Itthe score of morals, he said, in criticising an attack of this sort made upon
Darwin in the Quarterly for July 1876 :--  seemed to me, however, that a
man of science has no raison d'itre at all, unless he is willing to face much
greater risks than these for the sake of that which he believes to be true ; and
further, that to a man of science such risks do not count for much -- that they are

by no means so serious as they are to a man of letters, for example."

204  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      CHAP. XV

if she does not prevail in his time, he himself will be all the better
and wiser for having tried to help her. And let him recollect that

such great reward is full payment for all his labour and pains.

      The following letter refers to the newly-published Man's
Place in Nature. Miss H. Darwin had suggested a couple

of corrections :--

                                                         Jermyn Street, Feb. 25, 1863.

     My dear Darwin -- Please to say to Miss Henrietta Minos
Rhadamanthus Darwin that I plead guilty to the justice of both

criticisms, and throw myself on the mercy of the court.

IspeicekAepdsreefuaxpttoer"ynAuatantivonitsgicmec.i"rcuinmEPsxrttaietncnhcueaasrtdinwgiytehacrirrsecsuapmgeocst,taatnoncdeinadsNicoti.tmei2sn--taNo. 1,
                                                                                                                                                 that
                                                                                                                                                  much
more convenient word than " Hereditary transmission of varia
tions," it slipped into equivalence in my mind, and I forgot all

about the original limitation.

     But if these excuses should in your judgment tend to aggravate

my offences, suppress 'em like a friend. One may always hope

more from a lady's tender-heartedness than from her sense of

justice.

    IPublisher has just sent to say that must give him any correc

tions for second thousand of my booklet immediately.

     Why did not Miss Etty send any critical remarks on that sub
jtehcetmb. y--tEhevesramyoeurspofsat it?hfuIllys, hould
                                                         be  most  immensely obliged                                                             for
                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

     During this period of special work at the anthropological

side of the Evolution theory, Huxley made two important

contributions to the general question.

     As secretary of the Geological Society, the duty of

delivering the anniversary address in 1862 fell to him in

the absence of the president, Leonard Horner, who had been

driven by ill-health to winter in Italy.

     The object at which he aimed appears from                      the                                                                          post
script of a brief note of Feb. 19, 1862, to Hooker
                                                                   :--

     I am writing the body of the address, and I am going to criticise

Palaeontological doctrines in general in a way that will flutter their

nerves considerable.
                     "oekNpvnpoeoowrwys,we?hdMe"reteosswipeaiutlahrse--onleOtoshlogPtyhailsa--eoisanntoodplopgIousemes,deatnowhptaoatlateutohrnne
      Darwin is met
tology, or that is
round and ask,
devil do you really

1862 WORKING MEN'S LECTURES                                                                       205

    I have not changed sex, although the postscript is longer than

the letter.

     The delivery of the address 1 itself on February 2 1
is thus described by Sir Charles Lyell 2 {Life and Letters,

356):-
                                a
                                                                                                                ii.
      Huxley delivered brilliant critical discourse on what palaeon

tology has and has not done, and proved the value of negative

evidence, how much the progressive development system has been

pushed too far, how little can be said in favour of Owen's more

generalised types when we go back to the vertebrata and inverte

brata of remote ages, the persistency of many forms high and low

throughout time, how little we know of the beginning of life upon

the earth, how often events called contemporaneous in Geology

are applied to things which, instead of coinciding in time, may have

happened ten millions of years apart, etc. and masterly sketch
                                              in

                                                                   ;
                                                                              a
comparing the past and present                almost every class in zoology,

and sometimes of botany cited from Hooker, which he said he had

done because       it  was useful to look into the cellars and see how

much gold there was there, and whether the quantity of bullion

justified such an enormous circulation of paper.                          I  never remember

an address listened to with such applause, though there were many

private protests against some of his bold opinions.

      The dinner at Willis's was well attended should think eighty
                                              I
or more present . . . and late in the evening Huxley made thema
                                                   ;I
merry by sort of mock-modest speech.
               Ia                                             I
                                                                                     6,
                                              Jermyn Street, May 1862.

       My dear Darwin -- was very glad to get your note about my
                                II
                                        a
  address.         profess to be great stoic, you know, but there are

  some people from whom am glad to get pat on the back. Still

II   am      noof tthqeuitaergucmonetnetn--t  with that, and want to know              what you
  think                                       whether you agree with what              say about
                                                                                       admit -- as
  contemporaneity or    not, and              yowuhettohedr oy--ou   are  prepared to
     think your views  compel                                       that   the whole   Geological

  Record only the skimmings of the pot of life.
               is

        Furthermore, want you                 etontecrhtuacinkl--e  with  me over the    notion
  find great many people                                            that  the address          dead
                       I                                                                          I

      81                    is                                            is
                                                                              in
         5, a
                                                                                              is
  against your views. The fact being, as they will by and by wake up

  [to] see that yours the only hypothesis which not negatived by

             On "Geological Contemporaneity" (Coll. Ess. viii. 292).
             To"a  note of whose, proposing a talk over the subject,             Huxley replies on
  May          I    am very glad you find something to think about               my address. That

  is  the best of all praise."

  206             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              CHAP. XV

  the facts, --one of its great merits being that it allows not only of

  indefinite standing still, but of indefinite retrogression.

      I am going to try to work the whole argument into an intellig

  Iible form for  the general    public          as a chapter            of my forthcoming
                  (one-half of                   am happy to             say is now written),
  " Evidence 'u                 which I
                                                                        Tuesday onwards--
so      shall  Ibesawveryyoug--ladindoefeadn, y   criticisms or hints.
       Since                                     from the following
I have amused myself by spending ten days or so in bed. I had

an unaccountable prostration of strength which they called influenza,

but which, I believe, was nothing but some obstruction in the liver.
    Of course I can't persuade people of this, and they will have it

that it is overwork. I have come to the conviction, however, that

steady work hurts nobody, the real destroyer of hardworking men

being not their work, but dinners, late hours, and the universal

humbug and excitement of society.                            out of it. --Ever yours
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.
    I mean to get out of all that and keep

faithfully,

       The other contribution to the general question was his

"IWorking                                                    As he

Darwin on
               Men's Lectures                    for 1 862.              writes  to
                                                                        to talk  to
                October 10--                     can't find anything             to
                                                                        I mean
the working men about this year but your book.

give them a commentary a la Coke upon Lyttleton."

       The lectures to working men here referred to, six in

number, were duly delivered once a week from November

10 onwards, and published in the form of as many little
pamphlets. Appearing under the general title, " On our

Knowledge of the Causes of the Phenomena of Organic

Nature," they wound up with a critical examination of the

portion of Mr. Darwin's work On the Origin of Species, in
relation to the complete theory of the causes of organic

nature.

                                                 Jermyn Street, Dec. 2, 1862.

    My dear Darwin -- I send you by this post three of my working

men's lectures now in course of delivery. As you will see by the

Iprefatory notice, was asked to allow them to be taken down in
Ishorthand for the use of the audience, but have no interest in

them, and do not desire or intend that they should be widely

circulated.

    ISome time hence, may be, may revise and illustrate them,

and make them into a book as a sort of popular exposition of

your views, or at any rate of my version of your views.

                  Evidence as to Afan's Place in Nature.

1862 WORKING MEN'S LECTURES                                               207

There really is nothing new in them nor anything worth your
Iattention, but if in glancing over them at any time you should see

anything to object to, should like to know.
Iend           hard worked just now -- six
      am very  things-- but as vigorous as   lectures a   week,           and no
    of other                                a three-year    old.            Some
Ibody told me you had been ill, but hope it was fiction, and that
you and Mrs. Darwin and all your belongings are flourishing. --
                                                         T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours faithfully,

      In reply, Darwin writes on December 1 o :--

I agree entirely with all your reservations about accepting the

doctrine, and you might have gone further with perfect safety and

truth. . . .                                   " Do inaugurate            a great
     Touching the Natural History Review,
improvement, and have pages cut, like the Yankees do ; I will heap

blessings on your head."

      And again, December --1 8 :

I have read No. IV. and V. They are simply perfect. They
                                           it is very
ought to be  largely advertised ;    but    reflection,  go"odWhinatmies  to say so,
                                     this                                 the good
for I threw  down No. IV. with

of my writing a thundering big book, when everything is in this

Igreen little book so despicable for its size ? " In the name of all

that is good and bad may as well shut up shop altogether.

      These lectures met with an annoying amount of success.
They were not cast into permanent form, for he grudged the
time necessary to prepare them for the press. However, he
gave a Mr. Hardwicke permission to take them down in
shorthand as delivered for the use of the audience. But no

sooner were they printed, than they had a large sale.

Writing   to   Sir  J.  D.  Hooker   early in  the       following        month,

he says  :--

    I fully meant to have sent you all the successive lectures as
Ithey came out, and
Ifor my delinquency.
                            forward  a set with all manner of apologies
                                     such a 'umble-minded party that
                              I am

never imagined the lectures as delivered

I Iout at all, and I knew had no time to
                                               would be worth             bringing
                                               work them out.              Now,
Ilament I did not publish them myself and turn an honest penny by

them as suspect Hardwicke is doing. He is advertising them
everywhere, confound him.

    I wish when you have read them you would tell me whether
you think it would be worth while for me to re-edit, enlarge, and

illustrate them by and by.

2oS           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  CHAP. XV

     And on January 28 Sir C. Lyell writes to him :--

     I do grudge Hardwicke very much having not only the pub
lisher's but the author's profits. It so often happens that popular

lectures designed for a class and inspired by an attentive audience's

sympathy are better than any writing in the closet for the purpose

of educating the many as readers, and of remunerating the publisher
Iand author.
              would lose no time in considering well what steps

to take to rescue the copyright of the third thousand.

     As for the value of the work thus done in support of
Darwin's theory, it is worth while quoting the words of Lord

Kelvin, when, as President of the Royal Society in 1 894, it
fell to him to award Huxley the Darwin Medal :--

     To the world at large, perhaps, Mr. Huxley's share in moulding
the thesis of Natural Selection is less well known than is his bold

unwearied exposition and defence of it after it had been made

public. And, indeed, a speculative trifler, revelling in the problems

of the "might have been,"    would   fi"ndDaarwicnoisnmgen"iawl outhldemheavein   the
inquiry how soon what we   now call                                              met

with the acceptance with which it has met, and gained the power

which it has gained, had it not been for the brilliant advocacy with
which in its early days it was expounded to all classes of men.

     That advocacy had one striking mark : while it made or strove

to make clear how deep the new view went down, and how far it

reached, it never shrank from trying to make equally clear the

limit beyond which it could not go.

           CHAPTER XVI

           1 860-1 86 1

THE letters given in the following chapters illustrate the

occupations and interests of the years 1860 to 1863, apart

from the struggle over the species question.

One of the most important and most engrossing was the

launching of a scientific quarterly to do more systematically

and thoroughly what had been done since           1858 in                the
fortnightly scientific column of the Saturday     Review.                Its

genesis is explained in the following letter :--

                                                  July 17, 1860.

    My dear Hooker --Some time ago Dr.           Wright of Dublin

talked to me about the Natural History Review,   which I believe to

a great extent belongs to him, and wanted me to join in the editor

ship, provided certain alterations were made. I promised to con

sider the  matter, and yesterday he and Greene dined    wreitvhiewm--e,  and
           that Haughton and Galbraith were out of the                   that
I learned
IHarvey was likely to go -- that a
                                     new series  woavcseorntocheebrreneg--iinntihnfaaJtcatn--ituaawrnyad,s
with Williams and Norgate for
to become an English and not         publishers
                                    a Hibernian

finally, that if chose to join as one of the editors, the effectual

control would be pretty much in my own hands. Now, considering
the state of the times, and the low condition of natural history

journalisation (always excepting quarterly Mic.Jour.) in this country
Ithis seems to me to be a fine opening for a plastically minded

young man, and am decidedly inclined to close with the offer,

though I shall get nothing but extra work by it.
    To limit the amount of this extra work, however, I must get

co-editors, and I have written to Lubbock and to Rolleston (also
plastically minded young men) to see if they will join. Now up to

I Ithis point you have been in a horrid state of disgust, because you

thought was going to ask you next. But am not, for rejoiced
VOL. I
                                                        P

210            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                              chap, xv1

I Ias should be to have you, know you have heaps of better work

to do, and hate journalism.

      But can  you tell   me   of   apnayy,pltahsotuicghyoIunthginkboptaanyismt awy hboe                               would
come in all    for glory  and
                                no                                                                                     got if

the concern is properly worked. How about Oliver ?

       And though you can't and won't be an editor yourself, won't

you help us and pat us on the back?

       The tone of the Review will be mildly episcopophagous, and
                                                                             opportunity if you wish
you and Darwin      aanddveLrsyaerilel sw. i--ll hEavveer          a fine    faithfully,
it of slaying your                                                 yours
                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.

       Several of his elder friends tried to dissuade him from

an undertaking which would inevitably distract him from

his proper work. Sir C. Lyell prophesied (see p. 217) that
all the work would drift to the most energetic member

of the staff,       and   Huxley writes to Hooker,                                                           August       2,

1860 :--

       Darwin wrote me a very kind expostulation about telling me
ought not to waste myself on other than original work. In reply,                                             it it,
I

         if I
                I

                                             a

                            it I

                                                         it
                                                                         it
however, assured him that must waste myself willy-nilly, and that

the Review was only save- all.

       The more think of the more                                            seems to me                             ought to

answer properly conducted, and ought to be of great use.

on thTehe6thfi,rstHunxulmeybesrayaspp--eared in January 1861.                                                        Writing

       It

            is

                                                                :

                                    I
              pleasant to get such expressions of opinion as have had                                        I
from Lyell and Darwin about the Review. They make me quite
hopeful about its prosperity, as am sure we shall be able to do
better than our first number.

        It was not  loInng,JuhnoeweHvuerx,lebyefowrreitesLye--ll's                                           prophecy  began

to     come true.
       I
     It   I is

unless                         it

                                 I
                                                        it,
                                                      it
                                                                                                          :
         no use letting other people look after the journal.                                                           I  find

         revise every page of       goes wrong.

       But in July 1863 he definitely ceased to contribute: --

         did not foresee all this crush of work, (he writes) when the
Review was first started, or should not have pledged myself to any
share in supplying it. (Moreover, with the appointment of paid
editors that year, seemed to him) that the working editors with
the credit and the pay must take the responsibility of all the com

missariat of the Review upon their shoulders.

1860 LADIES AND THE LEARNED SOCIETIES                                 211

     Two years later, in 1865, the Review came to an end.
As Mr. Murray, the publisher, remarked, quarterlies did not

pay ; and this quarterly became still more financially un

sound after the over-worked volunteers, who both edited

and contributed, gave place to paid editors.
     But Huxley was not satisfied with one defeat. The

quarterly scheme had failed ; he now tried if he could not

serve science better by returning to a more frequent and

more popular form of periodical. From 1863 to 1866 he
                                                              1
was concerned     with  the  Reader,  a weekly       issue  ;    but  this

also was too heavy a burden to be borne in addition to his

other work. However, the labour expended in these ventures

was not wholly thrown away. The experience thus gained

at last enabled the present Sir Norman Lockyer, who

acted as science editor for the Reader, to realise what had so

long been aimed at by the establishment of Nature in 1 869.
     Apart from his contributions to the species question and

the foundation of a scientific review, Huxley published in

1 860  only two special monographs    (" On Jacare and Caiman,"
and "  On the Mouth and Pharynx       of the Scorpion," already

mentioned as read in the previous year), but he read
" Further Observations on Pyrosoma " at the Linnean

Society, and was busy with paleontological work, the results
of which appeared in three papers the following year, the
most important of which was the Memoir called a " Pre

liminary Essay on the Arrangement of the Devonian Fishes,"
in the report of the Geological Survey, " which," says
Sir M. Foster, " though entitled a Preliminary Essay, threw

an entirely new light on the affinities of these creatures, and,

with the continuation published later, in 1866, still remains

a standard work."

     The question of the admission of ladies to the learned
societies was already being mooted, and a letter to Sir C. Lyell

gives his ideas thus early not only on this point, but on the

general question of women's education.

                                                     March 17, 1860.

     My dear      S1r   Charles --To use     the  I  only forcible expres
                  your                      but      venture to think the
sion, I " twig "        meaning perfectly,

     1 The committee also included Professor Cairns, F. Galton, W. F. Pollock,

and J. Tyndall.

212             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           CHAP. XVI

parable does not apply. For the Geological Society is not, to my
mind, a place of education for students, but a place of discussion

for adepts ; and the more it is applied to the former purpose the
less competent it must become to fulfil the latter -- its primary and

most important object.

    I am far from wishing to place any obstacle in the way of the

intellectual advancement and development of women. On the

Icontrary, don't see how we are to make any permanent advance

ment while one-half of the race is sunk, as nine-tenths of women

I Iare, in mere ignorant parsonese superstitions ; and to show you that

my ideas are practical have fully made up my mind, if can carry

out my own plans, to give my daughters the same training in

physical science as their brother will get, so long as he is a boy.

They, at any rate, shall not be got up as man-traps for the matri
                If other people would do the like the next
monial market.

gaellntehreaitriopnurwsuouitlsd--setheowugomh eIn    fit to be  the    companions   of men   in
                                                   don't think   that    men have  anything  to
fear from their competition. IBut you know as well as do that

other people won't do the like, and five-sixths of women will stop
in the doll stage of evolution to be the stronghold of parsondom,
                            tthheemsdeelvgeras d--atio"nintorfigeuveesry"
the drag on civilisation,                                                  important pursuit
                                                                             in politics, and
with which     they mix
" friponnes "  in science.
    If my claws and beak are
                                                   Igood for anything they shall   bweithk.e--pt
from hindering the progress                        of any science      have to do
Ever yours faithfully,                                                 T. H. Huxley.

      Three letters to Mr. Spencer show that he had been

reading and criticising the proofs of the First Principles.
With regard to the second letter, which gives reasons for
rejecting Mr. Spencer's remarks about the power of inflation

irnepblyird:--s during flight, it is curious to note Mr. Spencer's

     How oddly the antagonism comes out even when you are not

conscious of it ! My authority was Owen ! I heard him assign

this cause for the falling of wounded birds in one of his lectures at

the College of Surgeons.

                                                   14 Waverley Place, Sep. 3, 1860.

     My dear Spencer -- I return your proofs by this post. To

my mind nothing can be better than their contents, whether in

Imatter or in manner, and as my wife arrived, independently, at the

same opinion, think my judgment is not one-sided.

whoTleh--erewhiischsomemetinheinngtlycablmefitsanda  dignified about the tone      of the
                                                     philosophical work which      means

186o LETTERS TO SPENCER                                                                 a13

to live -- and nothing can be more clear and forcible than the

argument.
    I
--for  rejoice that  you have made   a beginning, and such a beginning
                     think about it  the more important it seems to
       Ithe more

me that somebody should think out into a connected system the

loose notions that are floating about more or less distinctly in all

the best minds.
    It seems as if all the thoughts in what you have written were
my own, and yet I am conscious of the enormous difference your
presentation of them makes in my intellectual state. One is

thought in the state of hemp yarn, and the other in the state of

rope. Work away, then, excellent rope-maker, and make us more

ropes to hold on     against the  deinvildaognsd--thgeonpearstoonst.he  dogs  in  fact --
                     am absorbed
    For myself I

having  been  saoychcouwpieydourinhedaisltshecist.in--g   them for   the last fortnight.
You do  not                                              Ever yours  faithfully,
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

                                                                        Sep. 19, 1860.

     My    dear Spencer    y--ourYopuroowf iwll hefnorgIivetell  the   delay which      has
occurred    in forwarding                                         you   that we have    lost

our poor little son, our pet and hope. You who knew him well, and

know how his mother's heart and mine were wrapped up in him,

will understand how great is our affliction. He was attacked with

a bad form of scarlet fever on Thursday night, and on Saturday

night effusion on the brain set in suddenly and carried him off in
a couple of hours. Jessie was taken ill on Friday, but has had
the disease quite lightly, and is doing well. The baby has escaped.

So end many hopes and plans -- sadly enough, and yet not alto
gether bitterly. For as the little fellow was our greatest joy so is
the recollection of him an enduring consolation. It is a heavy
payment, but I would buy the four years of him again at the same

Iprice. My wife bears up bravely.
         have read your proofs at intervals, and you must not suppose

I Ithey have troubled me. On the contrary they were at times the
only things     could attend to.      agree               in the spirit of the whole
perfectly.   On some matters of
                                  detail I               had doubts which I am not

at present clear-headed enough to think out.

    I IThe only thing object to in toto is the illustration which

have marked at p. 24. It is physically impossible that a bird's

air-cells should be distended with air during flight, unless the structure

of the parts is in reality different from anything which anatomists

at present know. Blowing into the trachea is not to the point.

A bird cannot blow into its own trachea, and it has no mechanism

for performing a corresponding action.

     A bird's chest is essentially a pair of bellows in which the

2I4             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                            CHAP. XVI

sternum during rest and the back during flight act as movable
wall. The air-cells may all
opening freely into the bellows         be           represented   as soft-walled bags
                                                   there being,   so far as anatomists
                                        --

yet know, no valves or corresponding contrivances anywhere except

at the glottis, which corresponds with the nozzle and air valve both,

of our bellows. But the glottis is always opened when the chest is
dilated at each inspiration. How then can the air in any air-cell

be   kept at a higher tension than                 the surrounding atmosphere ?                                                                I
      Hunter experimented on the
                                                   uses of the air sacs, I know, but
have not his works at hand. It may be that opening one of the
air-cells interferes with flight, but I hold it very difficult to

conceive that the interference can take place in the way you

suppose. How on earth is a lark to sing for ten minutes together
if the air-cells are to be kept distended all the while he is up in

the air ?

     At any rate twenty other illustrations will answer your purpose
as well, so I would not select one which
carping fellow like -- Yours very faithfully,              may be assailed by a

                                                             T. H. Huxley.

                                                                     Oct. io, i860.

     My dear Spencer 1-- " A wilful man must have his way," and

Iif you won't let me contribute towards the material guarantees for

the success of your book, must be content to add twelve shillings'

worth of moral influence to that I already meant to exert per annum

in its favour.
     I shall be most glad henceforth, as ever, to help your great
I Iundertaking in any way
                                        can. The more                contemplate its
Iissues the more important does it seem to me to be, and assure
Iyou that I look upon its success
that if it were not  a   pleasure                  as the  business   of all of                                                          us".     So
behind " as hard as     can.                       should  feel it   a duty to                                                                 push
                     I
                                                   Westminster? The opening article
     "HNaveeo-Cyhoruistsieaennitythis"  quarter's  the most remarkable essays in its
                                        is one of
Ion
way I have ever read.                   suppose it must be Newman's. The

Review is terribly unequal, some of the other articles being

absolutely ungrammatically written. What a pity it is it cannot be

thoroughly organised.

     My wife is a little better, but she is terribly shattered. By the
Itime you come back we shall,
                                                   hope, have reverted from our

present    hospital  cgolanddittioonseetoyoouu.r--noErvmeralyoaurrrasngfeamithenfutsll,y,                                           but  in    any
case we    shall be
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

     The following                      think, the first reference to his
    1
                                                                                                                                    notice of dis
                                         is,

                           I

                                                                                                                                 a
        This was written at the time when Mr. Spencer had issued
continuance, and when measures were being taken to prevent it.

186o FRIENDSHIP WITH HOOKER                                               215

fastidiousness in the literary expression and artistic com

pleteness of his work. As he said in an after-dinner speech
at a meeting in aid of the Literary Fund, " Science and

literature are not two things, but two sides of one thing."

Anything that was to be published he subjected to repeated

revision.   And thus,  a1 p8o6l0o)g--ising  to Hooker  for  his  absence,
he writes  (August 2,

    I was sorry to have to send an excuse by Tyndall the other
I Iday, but found must finish the Pyrosoma paper, and all last

Tuesday was devoted to and fear the next after will have the
like fate.

          constantly becomes more and more difficult to me to finish
things satisfactorily.
I It

    aI
                                is
                                         it,
                                                               ;
                               I
                                                        a
                                                                                                                       :
                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                   a
To Hooker also he writes few days later --

         hope your ear better take care of yourself, there's                 good
                                                                          have
fellow.    can't do without you these twenty years. We

devil of lot to do in the way of smiting the Amalekites.

Between two men who seldom spoke of their feelings,

but let constant intercourse attest them, these words show

more than the practical side of their friendship, their com

munity of aims and interests. Quick, strong-willed, and

determined as they both were, the fact that they could work

together for over forty years without the shadow of
           :
                                                                                 1,

                                                         J.
                                                                              Ia
misunderstanding, presupposes an unusually strong friend

ship firmly based upon mutual trust and respect as well

as liking, the beginning of which Sir                       Hooker thus

describes --

     My first meeting your father was in 185 shortly after his return
from the Rattlesnake voyage with Captain Stanley. Hearing that

had paid some attention to marine zoology during the voyage of the

Antarctic Expedition, he was desirous of showing me the results of
his studies of the Oceanic Hydrozoa, and he sought me out in con
sequence. This and the fact that we had both embarked in the

Naval service in the same capacity as medical officers and with the

same object of scientific research, naturally led to an intimacy which

                       shadow of misunderstanding for nearly
was undisturbed  by
                      a
                                               a
                                                                      by

                                                          I
forty-five following years. Curiously enough, our intercourse might

have dated from an earlier period by nearly six years had accepted

an appointment to the Rattlesnake offered me           Captain Stanley,

LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY              chap, xvi

which, but for my having arranged for a journey to India, might

have been accepted.

     Returning to the purpose of our interview, the researches Mr.
Huxley laid before me were chiefly those on the Salpae, a much

misunderstood group of marine Hydrozoa. Of these I had amused

myself with making drawings during the long and often weary

months passed at sea on board the Erebus, but having other sub

jects to attend to, I had made no further study of them than as

consumers of the vegetable life (Diatoms) of the Antarctic Ocean.
Hence his observations on their life-history, habits, and affinities

were on almost all points a revelation to me, and I could not

fail to recognise in their author all the qualities possessed by a
naturalist of commanding ability, industry, and power of exposi
tion. Our interviews, thus commenced, soon ripened into a friend
ship, which led to an arrangement for a monthly meeting, and
in the informal establishment of a club of nine, the other

members of which were, Mr. Busk, Dr. Frankland, Mr. Hirst, Sir

J. Lubbock, Mr. Herbert Spencer, Dr. Tyndall, and Mr. Spottis

woode.

     Just a month after this letter to his friend, the same
year which had first brought Huxley public recognition

outside his special sphere brought him also the greatest

sorrow perhaps of his whole life. I have already spoken

of the sudden death of the little son in whom so much of

his own and his wife's happiness was centred. The sudden

ness of the blow made it all the more crushing, and the

mental strain, intensified by the sight of his wife's inconsol

able grief, brought him perilously near a complete breakdown.

But the birth of another son, on December 11, gave the

mother some comfort ; and as the result of a friendly con

spiracy between her and Dr. Tyndall, Huxley himself was

carried off for a week's climbing in Wales between Christmas

and the New Year.

His reply to a long letter of sympathy in which Charles

Kingsley set forth the grounds of his own philosophy as to

the ends of life and the hope of immortality, affords insight
into the very depths of his nature. It is a rare outburst at

a moment of intense feeling, in which, more completely than

in almost any other writing of his, intellectual clearness and

--moral fire are to be seen  uniting  in a veritable passion  for

truth :

i860 THE STANDARD OF BELIEF                                       217

                              14 Waverley Place, Sept. 23, i860.

   My dear Kingsley -- I cannot sufficiently thank you, both on

Imywife's account  and my own, for        your long    and frank letter, and
   all the hearty  sympathy which         it exhibits
for                                                    -- and Mrs. Kingsley

will, hope, believe that we are no less sensible of her kind thought

I Iof us. To myself your letter was especially valuable, as it touched
upon what        thought even more than upon what          said in my

letter to you. My convictions, positive and negative, on all the

matters of which you speak, are of long and slow growth and are

Ifirmly rooted. But the great blow which fell upon me seemed to

stir them to their foundation, and had lived a couple of centuries

earlier I could have fancied a devil scoffing at me and them -- and

asking me what profit it was to have stripped myself of the hopes
and consolations of the mass of mankind? To which my only

reply was and is-- Oh devil ! truth is better than much profit. I
have searched over the grounds of my belief, and if wife and child

Iand name and fame were all to be lost to me one after the other as

the penalty, still will not lie.

    IAnd now feel that it is due to you to speak as frankly as you

have done to me. An old and worthy friend of mine tried some
three or four years ago to bring us together -- because, as he said,
you were the only man who would do me any good. Your letter
leads me to think he was right, though not perhaps in the sense he

attached to his own words.
   ITo begin with the great doctrine you discuss.
Inor affirm the immortality of man.                        neither deny

                                          see no reason for believing

in but, on the other hand, have no means of disproving it.it,
                            II
   Pray understand that             have no a priori objections to the

doctrine. No man who has to deal daily and hourly with nature

can trouble himself about a priori difficulties. Give me such

evidence as would justify me in believing anything else, and willI

believe that. Why should not It not half so wonderful as
                            I       aI ?  is
the conservation of force, or the indestructibility of matter. Whoso
                                is             I ; is
clearly appreciates all that        implied in the falling of stone can
                                                           a

have no difficulty about any doctrine simply on account of its

marvellousncss.    But the longer live, the more obvious      it       to
                                                                   is

"Ime that the most sacred act of man's life            to say and to feel,
   believe such and such to be true." All the greatest rewards

and all the heaviest penalties of existence cling about that act.
The universe one and the same throughout and the condition
           is                                          if
              is

                   I
of my success in unravelling some little difficulty of anatomy or
physiology that shall rigorously refuse to put faith in that

which does not rest on sufficient evidence,            cannot believe that

the great mysteries of existence will be laid open to me on other
terms. It
           is    no use to talk to me of analogies and probabilities.

218              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             chap, xvi

I I II know what mean when say believe in the law of the inverse
                 I will not rest my life
squares, and     I dare not if I would.                    and  my  hopes     upon    weaker
convictions.

     Measured by this standard, what becomes of the doctrine of

immortality ?
     You rest in your strong conviction of your personal existence,

and in the instinct of the persistence of that existence which is so

strong in you as in most men.

     To  kmneowt--his miasy  as  nothing.      That        my personality is the surest
                             be  true.     But the         attempt to conceive what it
thing I
is leads me into mere verbal subtleties. I have champed up all

that chaff about the ego and the non-ego, about noumena and

phenomena, and all the rest of                           too often not to know that in
                                 a
                                                 it,

                                                        a
attempting even to think of these questions, the human intellect
flounders at once out of its depth.

I It  must be twenty years since, boy, read Hamilton's essay
                                                               I
                                                                         is (!I)
on the unconditioned, and from that time to this, ontological

speculation has been             folly to me. When Mansel took up

Hamilton's argument on the side of orthodoxy                                          said he re

minded me of nothing so much as the man who                                sawing off the

sign on which he             is  sitting, in Hogarth's picture. But this by

the way.

     cannot conceive of my personality as thing apart from the
                                                           I
                                                                 a
                                                                I

                                                                        Ia
phenomena of my life. When try to form such conception                                                   aI
                                 I
discover that, as Coleridge would have said, only hypostatiseI if,

word, and alters nothing with Fichte, suppose the universe toII
          it

be nothing but   a           manifestation of my personality.                         am neither

more nor less eternal than was before.

     Nor does the infinite difference between myself and the

animals alter the case.          do not know whether the animals persist

after they disappear or not.                 do not even know whether the

infinite difference between us and them may not be compensated

by their persistence and my cessation after apparent death, just as
the humble bulb of an annual lives, while the glorious flowers has
                                                                                                         if it
put forth die away.
                                                                                                               it
     Surely must be plain that an ingenious man could speculate
          it it
without end on both sides, and find                        analogies for all          hmisandkreinadm--s.
Nor does help me to tell me that                               a--spirleaatidonsmeof
                                                         the                          towards the
that my own highest aspirations                          even

doctrine of immortality.         I  doubt the fact, to begin with, but

be so even, what this but in grand words asking me to believe a
          I
thing because like it.I

                    I is
     Science has taught to me the opposite lesson. She warns me

to be careful how adopt a view which jumps with my preconcep

tions, and to require stronger evidence for such belief than for one

to which was previously hostile.

i860 ESSENTIAL JUSTICE OF NATURE                                                         219

My business is to teach my aspirations to conform them

selves to fact, not to try and make facts harmonise with my

aspirations.

     Science seems to me to teach in the highest and strongest
manner the great truth which is embodied in the Christian con

ception of entire surrender to the will of God. Sit down before

fact as a little child, be prepared to give up every preconceived

notion, follow humbly wherever and to whatever abysses nature
Ileads, or you shall learn nothing.
                                              have only begun to learn
Icontent and peace of mind since have resolved at all risks to

do this.

      There are, however, other arguments commonly brought for
ward in favour of the immortality of man, which are to my mind
not only delusive but mischievous. The one is the notion that the

moral government of the world is imperfect without a system of
                                              The other is : that such a system
Ifuture rewards and punishments.
is indispensable to practical morality.       believe that both these

I Idogmas are very mischievous lies.
With respect to the first,                    am no optimist, but                   have the

firmest   belief that  the  DsiuvmineofGtohveer"nmcuesntotms
phrase    to express I the                                      we may              use  such
                                                              of matter                  wholly
                                             is

                                                             it (if

                                                                               is
                                                                                     ")
                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                           a
just. The more know intimately of the lives of other men (to
say nothing of my own), the more obvious
                                                              to me that the

wicked does not flourish nor    the righteous punished. But for

this to be clear we must bear in mind what almost all forget, that
the rewards of life are contingent upon obedience to the whole law
--physical as well as moral-- and that moral obedience will not

atone for physical sin, or vice versa.a is
     The ledger of the Almighty strictly kept, and every one of us

has the balance of his operations paid over to him at the end of

every minute of his existence.

     Life  cannot    e--xistthatwitchoonufot rmityceirntvaoinlvecsonfocrmertitayin  to the sur
rounding   universe                           I I, a                                 amount of

happiness in excess of pain. In short, as we live we are paid foris
                                                        is
living.    it      to be recollected in view of the apparent discrepancy
     And       is                                            is a

between men's acts and their rewards that Nature juster than we.

She takes into account what                   man brings with him into the
world, which human justice cannot do. If born bloodthirstyI
                                           a
and savage brute, inheriting these qualities from others, kill you,

my fellow-men will very justly hang me, but shall not be visited

with the horrible remorse which would be my real punishment                              if,

my nature being higher, had done the same thing.

The absolute justice of the system of things as clear to me as
                       The
any scientific fact.        gravitation of    sinsot--o fsoorrroewxperimasencetarltapinrooasf
that of the earth to   the  sun, and more

2:o              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                              CHAf. XVI

of the fact is within reach of us all -- nay, is before us all in our own
lives, if we had but the eyes to see it.

    Not only, then, do I disbelieve in the need for compensation,
but I believe that the seeking for rewards and punishments out of

this life leads men to a ruinous ignorance of the fact that their

inevitable rewards and punishments are here.                                           evil-

    If the expectation of hell hereafter can keep me from                              If a

doing, surely a fortiori the certainty of hell now will do so ?
man could be firmly impressed with the belief that stealing damaged

him as much as swallowing arsenic would do (and it does), would
not the dissuasive force of that belief be greater than that of any

based on mere future expectations.

    IAnd this leads me to my other point.

     As stood behind the coffin of my little son the other day, with

my mind bent     on   anything   but  wdoisrpdus,tat"ioIfn,   the   officiating minister
read, as a part  of   his duty,  the                         the   dead rise not again,
let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die." I cannot tell you how

inexpressibly they shocked me. Paul had neither wife nor child, or

he must have known that his alternative involved a blasphemy
against all that was best and noblest in human nature. I could
Ihave laughed with scorn. What ! because
Iirreparable loss, because                                   am face to face with

                                 have given back to the source from

whence it came, the cause of a great happiness, still retaining

Ithrough all my life the blessings which have sprung and will spring

from that cause, am to renounce my manhood, and, howling,
grovel in bestiality ? Why, the very apes know better, and if you
shoot their young, the poor brutes grieve their grief out and do not

immediately seek distraction in a gorge.
    IKicked into the world a boy without guide or training, or with

worse than none, confess to my shame that few men have drunk

Ideeper of all kinds  of sin than     I. absHolauptepilyd,esmtryucctoiounrs--e awnads  arrested
                      had earned                                                       for long
in time-- before
Iyears have been slowly and painfully climbing, with many a fall,
I Itowards better things. And when
                                      look back, what do find to

Ihave been the agents of my redemption ? The hope of immortality
or of future reward ?     can honestly say that for these fourteen
                                                                                       No, I
years such a consideration has not entered my head.

can tell you exactly what has been at work.                        Sartor Resartus

led me to know that a deep sense of religion was compatible

with the entire absence of theology. Secondly, science and her
methods gave me a resting-place independent of authority and

tradition. Thirdly, love opened up to me a view of the sanctity

of human nature, and impressed me with a deep sense of re

If Isponsibility.         am not a worn-out, debauched, useless carcass

          at this moment
of a man, if it has been or will be my fate to advance the cause of

1S6o CHURCH OF ENGLAND AND SCIENCE                                                                                                                             221

I Iscience, if feel that have a shadow of a claim on the love of
Ithose about me, if in the supreme moment when
                                                            looked down

into my boy's grave my sorrow was full of submission and without

bitterness, it is because these agencies have worked upon me, and
Inot because
                  have ever cared whether my poor personality shall

remain distinct for ever from the All from whence it came and

whither it goes.

     And

Iposition

have to
Luther,
p"isatG.hyuostt,htIemhmepayleyfenadbmeletayirrq, ufoiIKtcreihnbgweksiranloengnyng,w, rnoyainconghud.tsinwaiBnltlhduaetutrnsIc.d"aescreasntIaonkndnlyowwshaayt    my
                                                                                                                                                               shall

                                                                                                                                                               with

I know right well that 99 out of 100 of my fellows would call
me atheist, infidel, and all the other usual hard names. As our
laws stand, if the lowest thief steals my coat, my evidence (my

opinions being known) would not be received against him.*
I IjusticBeutandcatnhnatotish--elpa
                  it.         One   thing people shall not  call       me with
                  liar.         As  you say of yourself,    too        feel that
II lack courage ; but if ever the occasion arises when am bound to
Ispeak, will not shame my boy.

   I Ihave spoken more openly and distinctly to you than ever
have to any human being except my wife.
I IIf you can show me that
                                    err in premises or conclusion,                                                                                             am
Iready to give up these as I would any other theories. But at any

rate you will do me the justice to believe that have not reached

my conclusions without the care befitting the momentous nature of

the problems involved.

    IAnd write this the more readily to you, because it is clear to

me that if that great and powerful instrument for good or evil, the

Church of England, is to        be  osfavsecdiencfreom--anbeienvgentshIivesrhedouldinbtoe
fragments by the advancing    tide
                              which will infallibly occur if men
very sorry  to witness,  but                                                                                                                                   like
            Oxford are    to  have the guidance of her destinies
Samuel of                                                                                                                                                      --it

must be by the efforts of men who, like yourself, see your way to

the combination of the practice of the Church with the spirit of

science. Understand that all the younger men of science whom I

know intimately are essentially of my way of thinking. (I know not

a scoffer or an irreligious or an immoral man among them, but they

all regard orthodoxy as you do Brahmanism.) Understand that
this new school of the prophets is the only one that can work

miracles, the only one that can constantly appeal to nature for

evidence that it is right, and you will comprehend that it is of no

use to try  to barricade us  "wsithhocskhinovge."l  hats  and aprons,  or to talk
about our   doctrines being
    I don't profess to understand the logic of yourself, Maurice, and
Ithe rest of your school, but I have always said would swear by

            1 The law with respect to oaths was reformed in 1869.

222             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, xv1

your truthfulness and sincerity, and that good must come of your
efforts. The more plain this was to me, however, the more obvious

the necessity to let you see where the men of science are driving,

and it has often been in my mind to write to you before.

    If I have spoken too plainly anywhere, or too abruptly, pardon

me, and do the like to me.    much  for                your  volume of sermons. --
     My wife thanks you very                                    T. H. Huxley.

Ever yours very faithfully,

     A letter written in reply to the suggestion that he

should carry out Hooker's own good resolutions of keeping

out of the turmoil of life, and devoting himself to pure

science, seems to indicate in its tone something of the stress

of the time when it was written --

                              Jermyn Street, December 19, 1860.

     fodregoatrtenHotookaenrs--weWr hyaoturwnitohteo--neantdhinfigrst,anads
   IMy

almost
                                                                             another, have
                                                                             to the business

matter. . . . Next as to my own private affairs, the youngster
is "a swelling                                                               better than I
                wisibly," and my wife    is            getting on
hoped, though    not quite so well as                  could have            wished. The
                                         I

boy's advent is a great blessing to her in all ways. For myself

II hardly know yet whether it is pleasure or pain. The ground

has gone from under my feet once, and hardly know how to

rest on anything again. Irrational, you will say, but nevertheless

natural. And finally as to your resolutions, my holy pilgrim, they

will be kept about as long as the resolutions of other anchorites
Iwho are

you will
     ttharkoewnthientowtohreldbu"syaswocorlodl,lyoras  won't say that, for assuredly
                                                       you can," and so shall I.

But that coolness amounts to the red heat of properly constructed

mortals.

     It is no use having any false modesty about the matter. You
and I, if we last ten years longer, and you by a long while first,

will be the representatives of our respective lines in this country.
In that capacity we shall have certain duties to perform to ourselves,

to the outside world, and to science. We shall have to swallow

praise which is no great pleasure, and to stand multitudinous bast

ing and irritations, which will involve a good deal of unquestion

Iable pain. Don't flatter yourself that there is any moral chloro

form by which either you or can render ourselves insensible or

acquire the habit of doing things coolly. It is assuredly of no great

use to tear one's self to pieces before one is fifty. But the alterna
tive, for men constructed on the high pressure tubular boiler
principle, like ourselves, is to lie still and let the devil have his own

i860 LETTERS TO HOOKER                                                     223

way. And I will be torn to pieces before I am forty sooner than

see that.

    I have been privately trading on my misfortunes in order to get
I Ia little peace and quietness for a few months. If can help it
Idon't mean to do any dining out this winter, and have cut down
Societies to the minimum of the Geological, from which I cannot

get away.

      But it won't do to keep this up too long. By and by one must
drift into the stream again, and then there is nothing for it but to

Ipull like mad unless we want to be run down by every collier.

         am going to do one sensible thing, however, viz. to rush down
to Llanberis with Busk between Christmas Day and New Year's

swDeeaelyl,Ihaeawnrn.add--s gahEetitvseDmrdoyawyuonlugunrhosgtnesfraSfwiuathlatlusfurodluflayphy, iallan-andidr losfooawkr sthDbeaertcwteoirmn.Tint.hgaHHns.eeIsHssieoeuxnexp.melesctyef.dairtlyo

      Meanwhile, he took the opportunity to make the child's

birth a new link with his old friend, and wrote as follows :--

                                     14 Waverley Place, Jan. 3, 1861.

My dear Hooker -- If I had nothing else to write about I

Imust wish you a Happy New Year and many on 'em ; but, in fact,

my wife and have a great favour to ask of you, which is neither
more nor less than to stand godfather for our little son. You know

my opinions on these matters, and I would not ask you to do any
thing I would not do myself, so if you consent, the clerk shall tell

all the lies for you, and you shall be asked to do nothing else than

to help devour the christening feed, and be as good a friend to the

boy as you have been to his father.                                        am

    IMy wife will have the youngster christened, although

always in a bad temper from the time it is talked about until the
ceremony is over. The only way of turning the farce into a reality

is by making it an extra bond with one's friends. On the other
Ihand, if you have any objection to say, "all this
                                                                           steadfastly
Ibelieve," even by deputy, know you will have no hesitation in

saying so, and in giving me as frank a refusal as my request.1

     Let me know if you have any fault to find with the new Review,
I think you will see it would have been a dreadful business to

1 As against his dislike of consenting to a rite, to him meaningless, he was
                                                                           par provision,
moved by    a feeling which in part  corresponded to Descartes' morale
            was an acknowledgment      of the possibilities of individual   development,
-- in part

making it only fair to a child to give it a connection with the official spiritual
organisation of its country, which it could either ignore or continue on reaching

intellectual maturity.

224             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        chap, xvi

translate all the German titles in the bibliography. I returned

from a ramble about Snowdon with Busk and Tyndall on the 31st,
all the better. My wife is decidedly improved, though she mends

but slowly.     wishes  to  you  and all yours. -- Ever  yours  faithfully,
      Our best

                                                         T. H. Huxley.

     Any fragments from the rich man's table for the next No. of
N.H.R. 1

                                  14 Waverlbv Place, yon. 6, 1861.

     My dear Hooker -- My wife and I were very pleased to get

your hearty and kind acceptance of Godfathership. We shall not
Icall upon you for some time, I fancy, as the mistress doesn't get
strong very fast. However, am only glad she is                  well as she

is. She came down yesterday for the first time.

    IIt is very pleasant to get such expressions of opinion as have

had from you, Lyell, and Darwin about the Review. They make

me quite hopeful about its prosperity, as I am sure we shall be able

Ito do better than our first number.

     I am glad you liked what said in the opening of my article.*
I wish not to be in any way confounded with the cynics who delight

in degrading man, or with the common run of materialists, who                I
Ithink mind is any the lower for being a function of matter.

dislike them even more than do the pietists.
     Some of these days I shall look up the ape question again, and

go over the rest of the organisation in the same way. But in order

to get a thorough grip of the question, I must examine into a good
many points for myself. The results, when they do come out, will,
I foresee, astonish the natives.
     I am cold-proof, and all the better for the Welsh trip. To say
truth, I was just on the edge of breaking down when I went. Did
I ever                                       taenadchIingforogfetNawtuhreatlheHrisItosreyn?t
        send you a letter    of mine on the
It was  published while     you were away,

it or not. However, a copy accompanies this note. . . .                      I

     Of course there will be room for your review and welcome.
have put it down and reckon on it. -- Ever yours faithfully,

                                             T. H. Huxley.

     1 In the Natural History Review (1861, p. 67). -- "The proof of his claim
to independent parentage will not change the brutishness of man's lower nature ;

nor, except in those valet souls who cannot see greatness in their fellow because
his father was a cobbler, will the demonstration of a pithecoid pedigree one whit
diminish man's divine right of kingship over nature ; nor lower the great and
princely dignity of perfect manhood, which is an order of nobility not inherited,
but to be won by each of us, so far as he consciously seeks good and avoids evil,

and puts the faculties with which he is endowed to their fittest use."

1861 MA TERIALISM                                                     225

Huxley returned from the trip to Wales in time to be

with his wife for the New Year. The plot she had made

with Dr. Tyndall had been entirely successful. The threatened

breakdown was averted. Wales in winter was as good as

Switzerland. Of the ascent of Snowdon he writes on
December 28 : " Both Tyndall and I voted it under present

circumstances as good as most things Alpine."

His wife, however, continued in very weak health. She

was prostrated by the loss of her little boy. So in the

middle of March he gladly accepted Mr. Darwin's invita

tion for her and the three children to spend a fortnight

in the quiet of his house at Down, where he himself managed
to run down for a week end. " It appears to me," he
writes to his wife, " that you are subjecting poor Darwin to

a savage Tennysonian persecution. I shall see him looking

like a martyr and have to talk double science next Sunday."

In April another good friend, Dr. Bence Jones, lent the

invalid his house at Folkestone for three months. Unable

even to walk when she went there, her recovery was a slow

business. Huxley ran down every week ; his brother George

and his wife also were frequent visitors. Meanwhile he

resolved to move into a new house, in order that she might

not return to a place so full of sorrowful memories. On

May   30 he  efrfofemctedWatvheerlemyovePlatcoea--la2r6gerAbhboeuyse   not half a
mile  away                                                            Place (now

23 Abercorn Place). Here also Mrs. Heathorn lived for the

next year, my grandfather, over seventy as he was, being

compelled to go out again to Australia to look after a busi

ness venture of his which had come to grief.

Meantime the old house was still on his hands for

another year. Trying to find a tenant, he writes on May 2 1 ,

1861:--

II met J. Tyndall at Ramsay's last night, and I think he is
greatly inclined to have the house.  gave him your message and

found that a sneaking kindness for the old house actuated him a

good deal in wishing to take it. It is not a bad fellow, and we

won't do him much on the fixtures.

      Eventually Tyndall and his friend  Hirst established

themselves there.                                              Q

     VOL. I

226  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY               CHAP. XVI

     This spring Professor Henslow, Mrs. Hooker's father, a

botanist of the first rank, and a man extraordinarily beloved
by all who came in contact with him, was seized with a
mortal illness, and lingered on without hope of recovery

through almost the whole of April. Huxley writes :--

                                  Jermyn Street, Aprils, 1861.

    My dear Hooker -- I am very much grieved and shocked by
Iyour letter. The evening before last I heard from Busk that your

father-in-law had been ill, and that you had been to see him, and

meant to have written to you yesterday to inquire, but it was driven
Iout of my head by people coming here. And then I had a sort
of unreasonable notion that       should see you at the Linnaean
Council to-day and hear that all was right again. God knows, I

feel for you and your poor wife. Knowing what a great rift the loss

of a mere undeveloped child will leave in one's life, I can faintly

picture to myself the great and irreparable vacuity in a family
circle caused by the vanishing out of it of such a man as Henslow,

with great acquirements, and that great calm catholic judgment

and sense which always seemed to me more prominent in him

than in any man I ever knew.

     He had intellect to comprehend his highest duty distinctly, and

force of character to do it ; which of us dare ask for a higher sum
mary of his life than that ? For such a man there can be no fear

in facing the great unknown, his life has been one long experience

of the substantial justice of the laws by which this world is governed,

and he will calmly trust to them still as he lays his head down for

his long sleep.

    You know all these things as well as I do, and I know as well

as you do that such thoughts do not cure heartache or assuage

grief. Such maladies, when men are as old as you and I are, are
apt to hang about one a long time, but I find that if they are faced

and accepted as part of our fair share of life, a great deal of good
is to be got out of them. You will find that too, but in the mean

while don't go and break yourself down with over wear and tear.

The heaviest pull comes after the excitement of a catastrophe of this

kind is over.                     sympathy  Iwith you, and that am, my
      Believe in my affectionate
                                                      T. H. Huxley.
dear old fellow, yours ever,

     And again on the 1 8th :--

     Many thanks for your two letters. It would be sad to hear of

1861 DEATH OF HENSLOW                                                                                                           227

life dragging itself out so painfully and slowly, if it were not for

what you tell me of the calmness and wisdom with which the poor

sufferer uses such strength as is left him.

One can express neither wish nor hope in such a case. With
such a man what is will be well. All I have to repeat
is                                                                                                                              don't

                     aI
                                     I

                                                      I
                                                                                                                           is,
knock yourself up.      wish to God could help you in some way
or other beyond repeating the parrot cry. If can, of course you

will let me know.

      In June 1861 jotting in his notebook records that he
    at work on the chick's skull, part of the embryological
work which he took up vigorously at this time, and at once
the continuation of his researches on the Vertebrate Skull,
embodied in his Croonian lecture of 1858, and the beginning
of long series of investigations into the structure of birds.
There a reference to this in a very interesting letter dealing
chiefly with what he conceived to be the cardinal point of
the Darwinian theory --
a
        is

                                                 :

                                                    26 Abbey Place, Sept. 4, 1861.

My dear Hooker --Yesterday being the first day went to
                                                                            I

                                                                                             a

                                                                                            aI
                                                                                                                                 ?
                                                                                                                               a
the Athenaeum after reading your note,                                      had  look at, and

good laugh over, the Quarterly article. Who can be the writer

aI  have been so busy studying chicken development,                              difficult

subject to which had long ago made up my mind to devote my
                  I
                      I
                             it I
first spare time, that have written you no word about your article

in the Gardener's Chronicle.                        quite agree with the general tendency

of your argument, though seems to                   me that                 you  ppoutsitiyoonur"                               view
rather too strongly when you seem to                                        the                                                 that
as rule, resemblances prevail over                   question
                                                    differences               "  between parent

and offspring. Surely, as                           rule, resemblances do prevail over
                    I
                                         a
differences, though quite agree with you that the latter have been

far too much overlooked. The great desideratum for the species

question at present seems to me to be the determination of the

law of variation. Because no law has yet been made out, Darwin

obliged to speak of variation as                    were spontaneous or matter
is                                                  a                            a

of chance, so that the bishops and superior clergy generally (the onlyIt ifif
real atheists and believers in chance left in the world) gird at him
as he were another Lucretius.is                               it

             [in] the recognition of tendency to variation apart from the?
variation of what are ordinarily understood as external conditions

that Darwin's view  is  such an advance on Lamarck. Why does

not somebody go to work experimentally, and get at the law of
variation for some one species of plant

      What capital article that was in the Athenaum the other day
               a

228                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap, xvi

apud the Schlagintweits.*     Don Roderigo is very wroth at being
made responsible with Sabine, and indeed I think he had little

enough to do with it.
     You will see a letter from him in this week's Athenceum. -- Ever
                                                             T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

     1 The brothers Schlagintweit (four of whom were ultimately employed), who
had gained some reputation for their work on the Physical Geography of the Alps,

were, on Humboldt's recommendation, despatched by the East India Company

in 1854-55-56 to the Deccan, and especially to the Himalayan region (where
they were the first Europeans to cross the Kuenlun Mountains), in order to corre

late the instruments and observations of the several magnetic surveys of India.
But they enlarged the scope of their mission by professing to correct the great

trigonometrical survey, while the contract with them was so loosely drawn up

that they had practically a roving commission in science, to make researches and
publish the results -- up to nine volumes -- in all manner of subjects, which in fact

ranged from the surveying work to ethnology, and were crowned by an additional
volume on Buddhism ! The original cost to the Indian Government was esti
mated at £15, 000; the allowances from the English Government during the

inordinately prolonged period of arranging and publishing materials, including
payment for sixty copies of each volume, atlas, and so forth, as well as personal

payments, came to as much more.
     Unfortunately the results were of less value than was expected. The attempt
to correct the work done with the large instruments of the trigonometrical survey

by means of far smaller instruments was absurd ; away from the ground covered
by the great survey the figures proved to be very inaccurate. The most annoying
part of the affair was that it absorbed the State aid which might have been given

to more valuable researches.

     The Council of the Royal Society had been consulted as to the advisability of

     a                                                       for there were in the service of the
                                                          a

                                                       it,
despatching this expedition and opposed

Company not few men admirably qualified for the duty, whose scientific services
had received scant appreciation. Nevertheless, the expedition started after all,

with the approval of Colonel Sabine, the president. In the last months of 1866,
Huxley drew up for the Royal Society report upon the scientific value of the

results of the expedition.

                 CHAPTER XVII

                                    1861-1863

It has been seen that the addition of journalistic work in

science to the mass of original research and teaching work
upon which Huxley was engaged, called forth a remonstrance
from both Lyell and Darwin. To Hooker it seemed still
more serious that he was dividing his allegiance, and going
far afield in philosophy, instead of concentrating himself
upon natural science. He writes : --

    I am sorry to hear that you are so poorly, and wish I could

help you to sit down and work quietly at pure science. You have
got into a whirlpool, and should strike out vigorously at the proper
angle, not attempt to breast the whole force of the current, nor yet
give in to it. Do take the counsel of a quiet looker on and with
draw to your books and studies in pure Natural History; let
modes of thought alone. You may make a very good naturalist, or

a very good metaphysician (of that I know nothing, don't despise

me), but you have neither time nor place for both.

      However, it must be remarked that this love of philosophy,
not recently acquired either, was only part of the passion for
general principles underlying the facts of science which had
always possessed him. And the time expended upon it
was not directly taken from the hours of scientific work ; he
would read in bed through the small hours of the night,
when sleep was slow in coming to him. In this way he
got through an immense amount of philosophy in the
course of several years. Not that he could " state the views
of so and so " upon any given question, or desired such kind
of knowledge ; he wished to find out and compare with his

              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                CHAP. XVII

own the answers which other thinkers gave to the problems
which interested himself.

     A gentler reproof of this time touches his handwriting,

which was never of the most legible, so that his foreign
correspondents in particular sometimes complained. Haeckel
used to get his difficulties deciphered by his colleague
Gegenbaur. I cannot forbear quoting the delicate remon
strance of Professor Lacaze du Thiers, and the flattering

remedy he proposed :--

     March 14. --Je lis l' Anglais imprime, mais vos ecritures anglaises

sont si rapides, qu'il m'est quelquefois difficile de m'en sortir. On
me dit que vous ecrivez si bien le francais que je crois que je vous
lirais bien mieux dans ma langue !

      On his return from examining at Dublin, he again
looked over proofs for Mr. Spencer.

                                  Jermyn Street, Aug. 3, 1861.

My dear Spencer -- I have been absent on a journey to

Dublin and elsewhere 1 nearly all this week, and hence your note

and proof did not reach me till yesterday. I have but just had
Itime to glance through the latter, and I need hardly say how
heartily concur in its general tenor. I have, however, marked
one or two passages which I think require some qualification.

Then, at p. 272, the fact that the vital manifestations of plants

depend as entirely as those of animals upon the fall towards stable

equilibrium of the elements of a complex protein compound is not

sufficiently prominent. It is not so much that plants are deoxi

disers and animals oxidisers, as that plants are manufacturers and

animals consumers. It is true that plants manufacture a good deal

of non-nitrogenous produce in proportion to the nitrogenous, but it

is the latter which is chiefly useful to the animal consumer and not
                                                                       which I have never
the former.   This  point is    apvuetr--y itmhepoprtraentttineosnse,
seen clearly  and   distinctly                                         of Dumas' circula

tion of the elements having seduced everybody.

Of course this in no way affects the principle of what you say.
      statements which I have
The   their authorities given, I   marked   at p. 276 and               278 should
                                             should hardly             like to com
have                              think. I

mit myself to them absolutely.
IYou will, if my memory does not mislead me, find authority for
my note at p. 283 in Stephenson's life.     think old Geo. Stephen-

              1 Visiting Sir Philip Egerton at Oulton Park.

1Sb1 ANIMALS AND PLANTS                                                           23"

son brought out his views at breakfast at Sir R. Peel's when Buck

land was there.

    These are all the points that strike me, and I do not keep your

proof any longer (I send it by the same post as this note), because

I fear you may be inconvenienced by the delay.
    ITyndall is unfortunately gone to Switzerland, so that cannot

Iget you his comments. Whether he might have picked holes in

any detail or not I do not know, but know his opinions sufficiently
                                                                                    In
well  to make sure in his   oagf rheeismiesn--t Gwivitehn  the general argument.  in a
fact  a favourite problem                                   the molecular forces

mutton chop, deduce Hamlet or Faust therefrom. He is confident

that the Physics of the Future will solve this easily.

    I am grieved to hear such a poor account of your health ; I

believe you will       have to come     at last            to the  heroic remedy of
matrimony, and                          were a              mode   of treatment that
                      if " gynopathy "
could be left off if it did not suit the constitution, I should decidedly

recommend it.         than  opium-eating --once begin              and you must   go
      But it's worse
on, and so, though I ascribe my own good condition mainly to the
care my wife takes of me, I dare not recommend it to you, lest per

chance you should get hold of the wrong medicine.

    Beyond spending a night awake now and then I am in very good
order, and I am going to spend my vacation in a spasmodic effort

to lick the Manual into shape and work off some other arrears.

    My wife is very fairly well, and, I trust, finally freed from all the
symptoms which alarmed me so much. I dread the coming round

of September for her again, but it must be faced.

      The babbies are flourishing ; and beyond the facts that we have

a lunatic neighbour on one side and an empty house on the other,

that it has cost me about twice as much to get into my house

Ias expected, that the cistern began to leak and spoil a ceiling,

and such other small drawbacks, the new house is a decided

success.       whether I gave you  the address,            which is--

     I forget

                      26 Abbey Place,
                             St. John's Wood.

You had better    direct to me there, as after the          10th of     this  month
                                                           faithfully,
I shall not be  here for six weeks. -- Ever yours          T. H. Huxley.

      October shows an unusual entry in his diary ; the
sacrifice of a working evening to hear Jenny Lind sing.
Fond though he was of music, as those may remember who

^3-           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, xvii

ever watched his face at the Sunday evening gatherings in
Marlborough Place in the later seventies, when there was

sure to be at least a little good music or singing either

from his daughters or some of the guests, he seldom could

spare the time for concert-going or theatre-going, and the
occasional notes of his bachelor days, " to the opera with

Spencer," had ceased as his necessary occupations grew

more engrossing.

      This year his friend Hooker moved to Kew to act as
second in command to his father, Sir William Hooker, the

director of the Botanical Gardens. This move made meet

ings between the two friends, except at clubs and societies,

more difficult, and was one of the immediate causes of the

foundation of the x Club. It is this move which is re
                                                 ; the "                       " : --being
ferred to    in the   following         letters   on the         poor client
the wife   of an old   messmate          of his                   Rattlesnake

                                                                 Jermyn Street, Nov. 17.

     My dear Hooker-- My wife wrote to yours yesterday, the

enclosed note explaining the kitchen-revolution which, it seems,
must delay our meeting. When she had done, however, she did
not know where to direct and am no wiser, so send to
       a
you.
                             I it,

                                             it

                                         I

                                                                                 a

                                                             I

                                                                                                          it
       It's horrid nuisance and have sworn few, but that will not

cook the dinner, however much may prepare me for being cooked
elsewhere. To complete my disgust at things in general, my wife

it is  regularly knocked up with dining out twice this week, though

       was only in the quietest way.             shall have to lock her up
                                        aI
                                              I

                                                            it,
altogether.

     X has made horrid mess of and am sorry to say,
           I                                                     I

                a                                                       it
                 it
                      is
                                     a
from what know of him, that cannot doubt where the fault lies.

The worst of      that he has wife and three children over here,

left without penny or any means of support. The poor woman

wrote to me the other day, and when                 went to see her found
                                                 I                          I

her at the last shilling and contemplating the workhouse as her

next step. She has brothers in Australia, and                               appeared to

me that the only way to do her any good was to get her out.

She cannot starve there, and there will be more hope for her

children than an English poor-house.                             am going to see            the
it

    It is

            is
                                                                   a

                                           I

                                                                                        if
Emigration Commissioners will do anything for her, as of course

       desirable to cut down the cost of exportation to the smallest

amount.                                 man of so much ability should
                 most lamentable that

iS6i A POOR CLIENT                                                                                                            233

have so utterly damned himself as X-                                           has, but he is hopelessly

Celtic.
I shall be at the Phil. Club next Thursday. -- Ever yours faith-
                                                                                               T. H. Huxley.
fully,

                                                                              14 Waverley Place,

                                                                         Monday morning [Nov. 1861].

My dear Hooker -- The obstinate manner in which Mrs.

Hooker   and    you   go on refusing to give any                                               aidndreass"  leads          "  us to
believe  that   you   are dwelling peripatetically                                                          Wan                with

green     door   and  "briasssonklynoackbelrindso.mewSoheryeouonseWe oIrmawmoodobSlicgreudbbst,o
and     that "  Kew

inclose Mrs. Hooker's epistle to you.

You shall have your own way about the dinner, though we

shall have triumphed over                               all domestic     bdeiifnfgicu"ltiweos rrbiytedtha"t    time,          and
the first lieutenant scorns                             the idea of                                          about            any
thing. I only grieve it is such a mortal long way for you to come.
I II could find it in my heart to scold you well for your generous
aid to my poor client.                                  assure you told you all about the case

because it was fresh in my mind, and without the least notion of

going to you for that kind of aid. May it come back to you in

some good shape or other.

    I find it is no use to look for help from the emigration people,
but I have no fear of being able to get the £50 which will send
them out by the Walter Hood.
Would it be fair to apply to Bell in such a case ? I will have a
talk to you about it at the Phil. Club. -- Ever, my dear Hooker,
                                                                                               T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

        In 1862, in addition to all the work connected with the

species question already detailed, Huxley published three
paleontological papers,* while the paper on the " Anatomy

and Development of Pyrosoma," first read on December 1,
1859, was now published in the Proceedings of the Linnaan

Society.

     In the list of work in hand are four paleontological

papers,2 besides the slowly progressing Manual of Comparative

Anatomy.

     1 *' On the new Labyrinthodonts from                           the  Pcaoisalle-fyiel"d ;  oafndEdi"nbOunrghthe"       ; " On a
Stalk-eyed Crustacean from the coal-fields                          of                                                     Teeth of

aDnipd r-oat"o"dOonMne.I"mndoiirandeFsocsrispitlsiv,e"  on " Cephalaspis and Pteraspis,"       on " Stagonolepis,"
                                                                                                the Trias and Coal
                                                         of Labyrinthodont remains from

of Britain," which he first                             treated of  in 1858,   "--cleSairrlyM.esFtaobsltiesrh,ingObfiot.r  the first
time the vertebrate nature                                of these  remains."                                              Notice,

Proc. R. S. lix. 55.

it,2.34 CHAP. XVII

                              8When he went north to deliver his lectures at Edinburgh
" On the relation of Man to the Lower Animals," he took
the opportunity of examining fossils at Forfar, and lectured
also at Glasgow ; while at Easter he went to Ireland ; on
March 15 he was at Dublin, lecturing there on the 25th.

      Reference has already been made (in the letter to
C. Darwin of May 6, 1862) to the unsatisfactory state of
Huxley's health. He was further crippled by neuralgic
rheumatism in his arm and shoulder, and to get rid of this,

went on July 1 to Switzerland for a month's holiday.

Reaching Grindelwald on the 4th, he was joined on the 6th
by Dr. Tyndall, and with him rambled on the glacier and

made an expedition to the Faulhorn. On the 1 3 th they

went to the Rhone glacier, meeting Sir J. Lubbock on their
way, at the other side of the Grimsel. Both here and at
the Eggischhorn, where they went a few days later, Huxley

confined himself to easy expeditions, or, as his notebook has
    stayed " quiet " or " idle," while the hale pair ascended the

Galenstock and the Jungfrau.

     By July 28 he was home again in time for an ex

aminers' meeting at the London University the next day,
and a viva voce in physiology on the 4th August, before
going to Scotland to serve on the Fishery Commission.

      This was the first of the numerous commissions on which
he served. With his colleagues, Dr. Lyon Playfair (after
wards Lord Playfair) and Colonel Maxwell, he was busy

from August to September 16, chiefly on the west coast,
taking evidence from the trawlers and their opponents,
and making direct investigations into the habits of the

herring.

      The following letter to Mr. (afterwards Sir W. H.) Flower,
then Curator of the Royal College of Surgeons' Museum,
refers to this trip and to his appointment to the examiner-
ship in physiology at the College of Surgeons, for which he
had applied in May and which he held until 1870. Mr.
Flower, indeed, was deeply interested at this time in the
same problems as Huxley, and helped his investigations for
Maris Place by making a number of dissections to test
the disputed relations between the brain of man and of

the apes.

1862 EXAMINER AT COLLEGE OF SURGEONS                                 235

                                          Hotel db la Jungfral',
                                        Aeggischhorn,/m/v 18, 1862.

     My dear Flower -- Many thanks for      your letter.        I    shall
                                           due form when        I    have
make my acknowledgments to the council in
read the official announcement on my return to England. I trust

they will not have occasion to repent declining Dr.             's offer.
    Iany rate I shall do my best.
At
       am particularly obliged to
                                   you  for telling  me  about  the  Dijon
bones. Dijon lies quite in my way in returning to England, and I

shall stop a day there for the purpose of making the acquaintance

of M. Nodet and his Schizopleuron. I have a sort of dim recollection

that there are some other remains of extinct South              American
                                                                into such
Imammals in the Dijon Museum which ought to see.
                                                                I saw the
     Your news about the lower jaw made me burst out
an exclamation that all the salle-a-manger heard me !
fitness of the thing at once. The foramen and the shape of the

Icondyle ought to have suggested it at once.

         have had a very pleasant trip, passing through Grindelwald,

the Aar valley, and the Rhone valley, as far as here ; but, up to

the day before yesterday, my health remained very unsatisfactory,

and I was terribly teased by the neuralgia or rheumatism or whatever

it is.

    IOn that day, however, had a very sharp climb involving a

great deal of exertion and a most prodigious sweating, and on the

I Inext morning really woke up a new man. Yesterday repeated
Ithe dose and am in hopes now that I shall come back fit to

grapple with all the work that lies before me. -- Ever, my dear
                                                     T. H. Huxley.
Flower, yours very faithfully,

    This autumn he gladly took on what appeared to be an

additional piece of work.          On October 1 2 he writes from

26 Abbey Place :--

    II saw Flower yesterday, and find that my present colleague in
Ithe Hunterian Professorship wishes to get rid of his share in the

lectures, having, suppose, at the eleventh hour discovered his in

competency. It looks paradoxical to say so, but it will really be

Ieasier for me to give eighteen or twenty-four lectures than twelve,

so that have professed my readiness to take as much as he likes

off his hands.

      This professorship had been in existence for more than

sixty years, for when the Museum of the famous anatomist
John Hunter was entrusted to the College of Surgeons by the

236

Government, the condition was made " that one course of
lectures, not less than twenty-four in number, on compara
tive anatomy and other subjects, illustrated by the prepara
tions, shall be given every year by some member of the
company." Huxley arranged to publish from year to year
the substance of his lectures on the vertebrates, " and by that
process to bring out eventually a comprehensive, though
condensed, systematic work on Comparative Anatomy T 1

      Of the labour entailed in this course, the late Sir W. H.

Flower wrote :--

      When, in 1862, he was appointed to the Hunterian Professor
ship at the College of Surgeons, he took for the subject of several
yearly courses of lectures the anatomy of the vertebrata, beginning
with the primates, and as the subject was then rather new to him,
and as it was a rule with him never to make a statement in a lecture
which was not founded upon his own actual observation, he set to
work to make a series of original dissections of all the forms he
treated of. These were carried on in the workroom at the top of
the college, and mostly in the evenings, after his daily occupation
at Jermyn Street (the School of Mines, as it was then called) was
over, an arrangement which my residence in the college buildings
enabled me to make for him. These rooms contained a large store
of material, entire or partially dissected animals preserved in spirit,
which, unlike those mounted in the museum, were available for
further investigation in any direction, and these, supplemented
occasionally by fresh subjects from the Zoological Gardens, formed
the foundation of the lectures. . . . On these evenings it was always
my privilege to be with him, and to assist in the work in which he
was engaged. In dissecting, as in everything else, he was a very
rapid worker, going straight to the point he wished to ascertain with a
firm and steady hand, never diverted into side issues, nor wasting
any time in unnecessary polishing up for the sake of appearances ;
the very opposite, in fact, to what is commonly known as " finikin."
His great facility for bold and dashing sketching came in most use
fully in this work, the notes he made being largely helped out with
illustrations.

       The following is the letter in which he makes himself
known to Professor Haeckel of Jena, who, in his thanks for
the specimens, bewails the lot of " us poor inland Germans,
 who have to get help from England."

                                   1 Comparative Anatomy, vol. i. Preface.

               HUNTERIAN PROFESSOR                                                                                       *37

                                    The Royal School of Mines,
                             Jermyn Street, London, October 28, 1862.

    Sir -- A copy of your exceedingly valuable and beautiful mono

Igraph, "Die Radiolarien," came into my hands two or three days
ago, and have been devoting the little leisure I possess just at

present to a careful study of its contents, which are to me pro

foundly interesting and instructive.

IPermit me to say this much by way of introduction to a request
I

        if

                     a
                                                   is,

                                                         it
                                                                     is
which have to prefer, which                                     that you will be good enough to

let me have    copy of your Habitationsschrift, De Rhizopodum
Finibus, you have one to spare. If
                                                                         sent through Frommans

of Jena to the care of Messrs. Williams and Norgate, London,
will reach me safely.
                                                                              II

                                                                                              is

                                                                                             I it
        observe that in your preface you state that you have no
specimen of the famous Barbadoes deposit. As happen to

possess some from Schomburgk's own collection,                                should be

ashamed to allow you any longer to suffer from that want, and
beg your acceptance of the inclosed little packet. If this
                                                                                                                         not

sufficient, pray let me know and will send you as much more.
If you desire  iIt,
                              I
                   can also send you some of the Oran earth,

and as much as you like      of                            the  GAlotlbaingetircinadeeapn-sdeaPolsyocuisntdininag. s--,  which
are almost entirely made     up                            of                                                               am,
                                                                                       I

Sir, yours very faithfully,                                     Thomas H. Huxley.

      The next letter refers to the scientific examinations at
the University of London.

                                                                              Dec. 4, 1862.

My dear Hooker-- look upon you as art and part of the
I

          if
                             a
                                                    1
                                                        1
                               I
Natural History Review, though not ostensibly one of the gang, so

bid you to feast, partly of reason and partly of mutton, at my

house on December         (being this day week) at half-past six. Do

come    you can, for we have not seen your ugly old phiz for

ages, and should be comforted by an inspection thereof, however

brief.

II      did my best yesterday to get separate exhibitions for Chem

istry, Botany, and Zoological Biology, at the committee yesterday,*

and suspect from your letter that                               it       you had been there you

would have backed me. However,                                    is if  clear they only mean to

give separate exhibits for Chemistry and Biology as a whole.

Because Botany and Zoology are, philosophically speaking,

cognate subjects, people are under the delusion that                          it       easier to
                                                                                   is

work both up at the same time, than would be to work up, say,
                                                                it
                                                                           a
Chemistry and Botany. Just fancy asking                                       young man who has

                   1         At the London University.

23S      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 CHAP. XVII

heaps of other things to work up for the B.Sc, to qualify him

self for honours both in botany, histological, systematic, and physio
logical. That is to say, to get a practical knowledge of both these

groups of subjects.

    I really think the botanical and zoological examiners ought to
                                                           TTh.eHp.reHseunxt lesyy.stem
memorialise the senate jointly     o--n Etvheer  subject.
leads to mere sham and cram.                      yours,

     The year 1863, notable for the publication of Huxley's

first book, found him plunged deep in an immense quantity
of work of all sorts. He was still examiner in Physiology

and Comparative Anatomy at the London University, a post

he held from 1855 to 1863, and again from 1865 to 1870,
"making," as Sir Michael Foster says, "even an examination
feel the influence of the new spirit in biology ; and among

his examinees at that time there was one at least who,

knowing Huxley by his writings, but by his writings only,

looked forward to the viva voce test, not as a trial, but as
an occasion of delight."

      In addition to the work mentioned in the following
letters, I note three lectures at Hull on April 6, 8, and 10 ;
a paper on " Craniology " (January 17), and his "Letter on

the Human Remains in the Shell Mounds," in the Ethno

logical Society 's Transactions, while the Fishery Commission
claimed much of his time, either at the Board of Trade, or

travelling over the north, east, and south coasts from the

end of July to the beginning of October, and again in Nov

ember and December.

                                      Jermyn Street, April 30, 1863.

I IgcoouordMagwyeodrddteoaabrdoouKtw1hntahgtesaleleygcr--teuartes,ma*ma--nyaexnpcdeeoepdlitenhgilnyhkavpIelesawhsaiesldhl etdhtoe--rehtbhayvaetbeyoeutnor
                                                                                       is,
bring out an enlarged and    revised edition     of them.   work                       five-and-is
     The only difficulty                         could but
                             time -- one
         a
                      !

                            is

                                      if

                                      I
twenty hours day

     With respect to the sterility question, do not think there

much doubt as to the effect of breeding in and in in destroying

fertility. But the sterility which must be obtained by the selective

breeder   in order to convert   his   minornpahtoulroeg--icaml usspt ecbieesquiinteto    physio
logical                         have                                                   irrespec
         species -- such as we

tive of breeding in and in.

                                1  See p. 207.

1863 SPECIES AND STERILITY                                                     239

There is no question of breeding in and in between a horse and

an ass, and yet their produce is usually a sterile hybrid.

     So if Carrier and Tumbler, e.g., were physiological species

equivalent to Horse and Ass, their progeny ought to be sterile or

semi -sterile.     So   far as experience has gone,   on the   contrary, it    is
perfectly fertile      as fertile as the progeny of  Carrier  and Carrier      or
                   --

Tumbler and Tumbler.

    From the first time that I wrote about Darwin's book in the

Times and in the Westminster until now, it has been obvious to

me that this is the weak point of Darwin's doctrine. He has shown

that selective breeding is a vera causa for morphological species ; he

has not yet shown it a vera causa for physiological species.
     But I entertain little doubt that a carefully devised
                                                                system          of
experimentation would produce physiological species by        selection
                                                                               --

Ionly the feat has not been performed yet.
         hope you received a copy of Man's Place in Nature, which
I desired  isnahcotkhunelodwwboleerdldgsmetonetnhttaovoeyfotuahatblootnoogkd--oa,goai.tndisDI oonnnee'vterosfudpotphoeiste--grIebauettevseatsr

expect an
nuisances
Iyou mentioned the Lectures and not the other, thought it might
not have reached you. If it has not, pray let me know and a copy
shall be forwarded, as I want you very much to read Essay No. 2.
I have a great respect for all the old bottles, and if the new
                                                     them I shall be very
wine                to go into them and not burst
                       do not see my way to it ;     on the contrary, the
Iglad
--caIncobnefegsost
I Ilonger live and the more learn the more hopeless to my mind

becomes the contradiction between the theory of the universe as

understood and expounded by Jewish and Christian theologians,
and the theory of the universe which is every day and every year
growing out of the application of scientific methods to its pheno

mena.

Whether astronomy and geology can or cannot be made to

agree with the statements as to the matters of fact           laid  nodtow--n   in
                                                              or               are
Genesis -- whether the Gospels are historically true

matters of comparatively small moment in the face of the impassable

gulf between the anthropomorphism (however refined) of theology
and the passionless impersonality of the unknown and unknowable
which science shows everywhere underlying the thin veil of phe

nomena.

      Here seems to me to be the  great gulf fixed between science
                                  Colenso controversies, reconcile
and theology-- beside which all

ments of Scripture a la Pye Smith, etc., cut a very small figure.

    IYou must have thought over all this long ago ; but steeped as

am in scientific thought from morning till night, the contrast has

perhaps a greater vividness to me. I go into society, and except
among two or three of my scientific colleagues I find myself alone

24o                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, xvii

on these subjects, and as hopelessly at variance with the majority

Iof my fellow-men as they would be with their neighbours if they
were set down among the Ashantees.                        don't like this state of
things for myself-- least of all do I see how it will work out for my
                                                          there is no way out of
children.     But as my mind is constituted,              things differently. -- Ever
and can
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.
yours veryI   only envy you            you can see

                         ;faithfully,

                     I
                               I

                                           if

                                            I

                                                                                                             it 5,
                                                                                                                            it,
                                                Jermyn Street, May 1863.

          My dear Kingsley --My wife and children are away at Felix

stow on the Suffolk coast, and as run down on Saturday and come

back on Monday your MS. has been kept longer than should

have been.              am quite agreed with the general tenor of your

argument and indeed have often argued against those who main

tain the intellectual gulf between man and the lower animals to be an

impassable one, by pointing to the immense intellectual chasm as

compared to the structural differences between two species of bees

or between sheep and goat or dog and wolf. So again your remarks
upon the argument drawn from the apparent absence of progression
in animals seem to me to be quite just. You might strengthen

them much by reference to the absence of progression in many races
    men. The West African
of  just the same condition             savage, as the old                       vaogyoagaesrsnoswh--owa, nwdas
in                                     two hundred years                             ;

suspect that the modern Patagonian as nearly as possible the un                          I
improved representative of the makers of the flint implements of
                        is
Abbeville.                 a is

          Lyell's phrase                                   it is                 simple application of
                                                                  is
                                                                              a
                           very good, but
Darwin's views to human history. The advance of mankind has
                                                                                 men of genius and
everywhere depended                     on the  "prsopdonutcatnioenousof         variation " becoming
that production                        case of

hereditary, not by physical propagation, but by the help of language,

letters     and the     p"rinotfing     press. Newton     was to all intents and pur
poses          " sport  a              dull agricultural  stock, and his intellectual
    I                               a
powers are to certain extent propagated by the grafting of thea
" Principia," his brain-shoot, on us.
          Many thanks for your letter. It
                                                is        great pleasure to me to be
                                                    a

able to speak out to any one who, like yourself,                                 is  striving to get at

truth through region of intellectual and moral influences so entirely
              Ia
distinct from those to which am exposed.
                                       I

          am not much given to open my heart to anybody, and on

looking back am often astonished at the way in which threw
                                                                                     I

                                                                                                        ;
myself and my troubles at your head, in those bitter days when

my poor boy died. But the way in which you received my heathen

letters set up freemasonry between us, at any rate on my side
          if

                                a
                                         a

                                      I
and they make you bishop advise you not to let your private

secretary open any letters with my name in the corner, for they are

    1863 THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNIVERSE

    as likely as not to contain matters which will make the clerical hair

    stand on end.
    Ithe
        "  am too much a    b"etliheevreer  in  Butler and in the   great principle of
    that   Analogy " that                   is  no absurdity in    thoef oNloagtuyreso" great
                                                greater absurdity
          you cannot parallel it by a                                    (it
                                                                             is

    not commonly stated           this way), to have any difficulties about
               I
                                        in

                                          I
    miracles.      have never had the least sympathy with the a priori

    reasons against orthodoxy, and have by nature and disposition
    the greatest possible antipathy to all the atheistic and infidel

    school.

      Nevertheless,         know that am, in spite of myself, exactly what
                         I         II
                                               aI
    the Christian world call, and, so far as can see, are justified in

    calling, atheist and infidel.           cannot see one shadow or tittle of

    evidence   that the   great   uthneknroewlantiounndoef rlyiFnagthtehre--plhoevneosmuesnaandofcatrhees
    universe   stands to   us in

    for us as Christianity asserts. On the contrary, the whole teaching of
    experience seems to me to show that while the governance
                                                                   (Iif  may

    use the term) of the universe               rigorously just and substantially
                                  is
                                          is
    kind and beneficent, there no more relation of affection between

    governor and governed than between me and the twelve judges.            I

    know the administrators of the law desire to do their best for every

    body, and that they would rather not hurt me than otherwise, but

it I  also know that under certain circumstances they will most

    assuredly hang me and that in any case         would be absurd to
                  is

                                 ;
                                                a
                                                       a

                                                                           it
                                                                                    is

                                                                           (if

                                                                I

                                                                                                       a it)
    suppose them guided by any particular affection for me.
         This seems to me to be the relation which exists between the

    cause of the phenomena of this universe and myself.            submit to

      with implicit obedience and perfect cheerfulness, and the more

because my small intelligence does not see how any other arrange
ment could possibly be got to work as the world constituted.

      But this what the Christian world calls atheism, and because

all my toil and pains does not enable me to see my way to any

other conclusion than this, Christian judge would                  he knew

refuse to take my evidence in court of justice against that of

Christian ticket -of-leave man.

      So with regard to the other great Christian dogmas, the immor

tality  of the    soul, and the future       state of rewards    and punishments,
what    possible                                               compelled perforce
                   objection a priori       can -- who am
                                            it
to believe in the immortality of what we call Matter and Force andis

in very unmistakable present state of rewards and punishments forI

all our deeds -- have to these doctrines? Give me scintilla of
      a                                                            a
                                                                        a
                 I
                                                                                       !

                                                                                 I
evidence, and am ready to jump at them.
      But read Butler, and see to what drivel even his great mind de

scends when he has to talk about the immortality of the soul

have never seen an argument on that subject which from scientific

point of view worth the paper                   written upon. All resolve them
             I
      VOL.           is                                            R

24 -                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         CHAP. XVII

selves into this formula :-- The doctrine of the immortality of the

Iswtthhoieeuthl Aomitpslihlsieuvetermhydreyivoogipfnfrlaeestanuhsjdceuahsnla"ttinecVgmeaau,npl"aedtgyee!vtcesi.arnoybpeohtauuicsest.m,teefs"rcunolh--,ullumatmphsevaehransealfevoaeris!enp"tdiortriaetutntnhiisokisntti,rma"uoteef"s.ltachsooatntv--seircsBtueetphtntacetnoyr

the bottom.
    I am
              called  away and           must close           my   letter.     Don't trouble  to
answer it     unless  you are so                             Ever   yours    faithfully,
                                         minded. --                       T. H. Huxley.

                                                  Jermyn Street, May 22, 1863.

     My       dear Kingsley --           Pray excuse my       delay in       replying to your
                                         much pressed        for time        for these two or
letter.       I have been very

three days.

      First touching the action of the spermatozoon. The best infor

is
                                        is

                                            iIs,

                                                                                             it
                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                       is
mation you can find on the subject                           think, in Newport's papers

in the Philosophical Transactions for 1851, 1853, and 1854, especi

ally the 1853 paper. Newport treats only of the Frog, but the
information he gives              very full       and definite.               Allen  Thomson's
                                                  " Ovum " in                Todd's   Cyclopedia
very accurate and learned article

      also well worth looking through, though unfortunately                                   least

full just where you want most information. In French there

C" oDsetev'eslopDmeveenlotp"pebmyenBtiscdheosff  Corps organises   and the           volume on
                                                  in the French    translation        of the last

edition of Soemmering's Anatomy.

      So much for your inquiries as to the matters of fact. Next, as
                                                 If any expression of ignorance on
to questions of speculation.

my part       will  bring us nearer      "wme aayrebeli"kealrye,totocommee,  into absolute    con
tact, for     the   possibilities of                                         infinite.

I           know nothing of Necessity, abominate the word Law (except
   II
as meaning that we                know   nothing  to the     plcaocnet,ra"ryo),thearndsidaem   quite
ready to admit thatis             there  may be   some                                        of no

where," par exemple, where + = an^ all bodies naturally repel
                                         2
                                                  2

                                                    is
                                                         5,
one another instead of gravitating together.

            don't know whether Matter anything distinct from Force.

don't know that atoms are anything but pure myths. Cogito, ergo

sum   --tEimnagteobliosbmuhetyin"wgmh"iintchCdhiongtkhi,tre"oid.b"ibcueucnlaodTuulhessee oLptfhaieetpcihneleantfotooefmrrmebanasadsheorlatolstdgiptcthr,oeesabeeelnlxtipsrteecafnadencrdearbesloasesyf inatangotII
                                         I                                      I
any                            a
the                                         iIf
Ego                                                       I
you knows nothing. In fact,
                                                 am pushed, metaphysical specula

tion lands me exactly where your friend Raphael was when his bitch
pupped. In other words,
                                                 believe in Hamilton, Mansell and

Herbert Spencer so long as they are destructive, and laugh at their

beards as soon as they try to spin their own cobwebs.

1863 MATERIALISM AND SPIRITUALISM                                                                  243

Is this basis of ignorance broad enough for you ? If you, theo
                                                      I, man    of science,
logian, can  ofifndmiansusfirnmoufgohott--ingthearse   will be  nought to               do    on   this
foundation                                                                              fear  for  our

Iever diverging.  am quite as ready to admit your doctrine that

     For you see
Isouls
                                        am the opposite one that bodies secrete
souls
       --secsriemteplybobdeiecasusaes  I deny the possibility of obtaining any

evidence as to the truth and falsehood of either hypothesis. My

fundamental axiom             of       speculative philosophy is         abthsautrdityma--teritahle
ism and spiritualism          are      opposite poles of the same

absurdity of imagining that we know anything about either spirit

or matter.

Cabanis and Berkeley (I speak of them simply as types of
schools) are both asses, the only difference being that one is a black
donkey and the other a white one.

This universe
                I                conceive, like to great game being played
                                       I
out, and we poor mortals are allowed to take a hand. By greatiIs,
                                               a
good        fortune the wiser among us haveif             made    out   some            fe"wLaowf sthoef
rules       of the game, as at present played.    it a        We  call   them
                                                         a
Nature," and honour them because we find that we obey them we
win something for our pains. The cards are our theories and       if

hypotheses, the tricks our experimental verifications. But what       :

sane man would endeavour to solve this problem given the rules

of a game and the winnings, to find whether the cards are made of
pasteboard or gold-leaf? Yet the problem of the metaphysicians
                                                                                        I
to my mind no saner.                                                                         a
                                                                                                    ;
    If you tell me that an Ape differs from Man because the latter                                        it is

Ihas soul and the ape has not, can only say may be so but         it
         ashould uncommonly like to know how either that the ape has not

one or that the man has.

And until you satisfy me as to the soundness of your method of

investigation,    --muis.et.     adhere to what       seems to my mind                    simpler
form of notation                 to suppose that      all phenomena have                the same

substratum (if they have any), and that soul and body, or mental
and physical phenomena, are merely diverse manifestations of that
hypothetical substratum. In this way, seems to me, obey the
rule which works so well in practice, of always making the simplest

possible suppositions.
     On the other hand, you are of different opinion, and find

more convenient to call the x which underlies (hypothetically)
mental phenomena, Soul, and the x which underlies (hypothetic-
ally) physical phenomena, Body, well and good. The two-fluid
theory and the one-fluid theory of electricity both accounted for

the phenomena up to                    certain extent, and both                       were probably
             it                                                                        only one x in
                                     a

                                                                                    is
wrong. So may be with the theories that there

nature or two x's or three x's.

244              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                  chap, xvii

     For, if you will think upon there are only four possible onto

logical hypotheses now that Polytheism dead.
                               j\ ) \
          There is no xI.               it,                          = Atheism on Berkeleyan principles.it
    II. There only one x                              is             = Materialism or Pantheism, accord
                I is
   III. There are two x's                                           ;       ing as you turn heads or tails.

             Spirit and Matter                                       ~_ Speculators incertce sedis.

   IV. There are three x's                                           - Orthodox Theologians.

             God, Souls, Matter

     To say that adopt any one of those hypotheses, as representa
                                                                                                  a

tion of fact, would to my mind be absurd but No.                                                  2        the one  I

                                                                                                     is

can work with best. To return to my metaphor,                                                     it       chimes in

better with the rules of the game of nature than any other of the

four possibilities, to my mind.

     But who knows when the great Banker may sweep away table

and cards and all, and set us learning new game                                                            What will
   I

               I

                                              if
                                                                                      ?
                                                          It a
                                                                                it
                                                                                               is ?
                                                                                                   a
                                                                    I

                                                                                              I
become of all my poor counters then                                                  may turn out that am

quite wrong, and that there are no x's or 20 x's.

     am glad you appreciate the rich absurdities of the new doctrine

of spontogenesis [?]. Against the doctrine of spontaneous generation
in the abstract       have nothing to say. Indeed
                                                                                                           necessary

corollary from Darwin's views                                                       legitimately carried   oinut,"  and
                                                                                 fairly for taking refuge           Penta
tttehhuiinnckghsa--lO"w(aep)nhgrasivmseeioteluospgyhtihmewp(hDreoanbrwlehimne),  ought to have done
                                                                                 (b) admit the necessity   one of two

                                                                                                           of spontan
eous generation. It the very passage in Darwin's book to which,
                         I is
as he knows right well, have always strongly objected. The x of
science and the x of genesis are two different x's, and for any sake

don't let us confuse them together. Maurice has sent me his book.

              it,        find myself utterly
                         yours faithfully,
                   I
I  have read      but                                                            at  a  loss  to comprehend his
point of view.                                                                                T. H. Huxley.
                -- Ever

     The following letter        is                                  interesting, as showing his con

tinued interest in the question of skull structure, as well as

his relation to his friend and fellow-worker, Dr. W. K. Parker.

                                                      Jermyn Street, March 18, 1863.

    My dear Parker --Any conclusion that have reached will

seem to me all the better based for knowing that you have been

Ifnear or at and am therefore right glad to have your letter.

   had only time, nothing would delight me more than to go over
your preparations, but these Hunterian Lectures are about the
hardest bit of work ever took in hand, and am obliged to give
every minute to them.
I

                      it,

                   II
                                                  II

                    HUNTERIAN LECTURES                                 245

By and by I will gladly go with you over your vast material.
Did you not some time ago tell me that you considered the Y-
                             presphenoid) in the Pike to be the true basi
Ifshaped bone   (so-called
                    so, let  me know before lecture to-morrow, that I
sphenoid?

may not commit theft unawares.

    I have arrived at that conclusion myself from the anatomical

Irelations of   the bone in question to  the brain and nerves.         " occipital
                upon the proposition     opisthotis = turtle's
          look
externe " =     Perch's Rocher (Cuvier) as the one thing needful to

clear up the unity of structure of the bony cranium ; and it shall

Ibe counted unto me as a great sin if have helped to keep you
Iback from it. The thing has been dawning upon me ever since
Iread Kolliker's

to work it out.
                --boEovkertwyoousrsumfmaiethrsfulalyg,o,  but  have never had time
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

      The following extracts from a letter to Hooker and a
letter to Darwin describe the pressure of his work at this

time.

...My dear Hooker--                                                                   1863.

                             I would willingly send a paper to
Ithe Linnaean this year if could, but I do not see how it is practi
Icable.
         lecture five times a week from now till the middle of
IFebruary.
                then  have to give eighteen lectures at the Coll.
Surgeons -- six on    classification, and twelve on the vertebrate
skeleton. I must write a paper on this
                                                               new Glyptodon, with
some eighteen to twenty plates. A preliminary notice has already
gone to the Royal Society. I have a decade of fossil fish in pro
                             country will keep
gress ; a fellow in the                                   on sending   me splendid
new Labyrinthodonts          from the coal, and
                                                          that d -- d  manual must
come out. -- Ayez pitie      de moi.
                                                                       T. H. H.

                                         Jermyn Street, July 2, 1863.

IMy dear Darwin -- I am horribly loth to say that cannot do

anything you want done; and partly for that reason and partly

Ibecause we have been very busy here with some new arrangements

during the last day or two, did not at once reply to your note.

    II am afraid, however, cannot undertake any sort of new work.
In spite of working like a horse (or if you prefer
                                                               like an ass),
       I iIf
                                   I

                                          I
                                                       I it,

                                                                                                                        a

                                                                             I
find myself scandalously in arrear, and shall get into terrible hot

water           do not clear off some things that have been hanging

Ifabout me for months and years.                               will ask Flower

          you will send me up the specimens, however,
(whom see constantly) to examine them for you. The examina
tion will be no great trouble, and am ashamed to make                  fuss

                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                          CHAP. XVII

about but have sworn big oath to take no fresh work, great
is

  I
        I it,

            I

                          aB
                                   is
                                                a

                                                       a

                                                     C

                                                                        is
                                                                                   B,

                                                            I
                                                                                                               is
or small, until certain things are done.

       wake up in the morning with somebody saying in my ear, " A
                                                                   not done, and D
   not done, and                         not done, and                                                             not

done," etc., and feeling like fellow whose duns are all in the

street waiting for him. By the way, you ask me what am doing
now, so will just enumerate some of the A,
                                                                     and C's aforesaid.

      A. Editing lectures on Vertebrate skull and bringing them out
in the Medical Times.

      B. Editing and re-writing lectures on Elementary Physiology,*
just delivered here and reported as went along.

     C. Thinking of my course of twenty-four lectures on the
                   it
                               d

                                           I
                                            I

                                                              a

                                                                        of
Mammalia at Coll. Surgeons in next spring, and making investiga

tions bearing on the same.                                            Manual
                                                                   have had in
     D. Thinking                    of   and--dw),orkwinhgich  at               Comparative
Anatomy (may                         be                                         hand these

seven years.                                                                                         from the

     E. Getting heaps of remains of new Labyrinthodonts
Glasgow coalfield, which have to be described.

      F. Working at memoir on Glyptodon based on                                                     new and
almost entire specimen at the College of Surgeons.
   I. a

                              a
                                 a

                         I

                                                                                a
                                                                                                 aa
   G. Preparing new decade upon Fossil fishes for this place.
   H. Knowing that ought to have written long ago description

of most interesting lot of Indian fossils sent to me by Oldham.

      Being blown up by Hooker for doing nothing for the
Natural History Review.
      K.
"  which  Being bothered by                        sundry editors just to  write                     articles
           you know you can                      knock off in moment."

      L. Consciousness of having left unwritten letters which ought

to have been written long ago, especially to C. Darwin.
     M. General worry and botheration. Ten or twelve people

taking up my time all day about their own affairs.
     N. O. P. Q. R. T. U. V. W. X. Y. Z.
             is
   Societies.                   S.

   Clubs.                     Ia

      Dinners, evening parties, and all the apparatus for wasting time
called "Society." Colensoism and botheration about Moses. . .
                                                                                I
Finally pestered to death in                     public and private  because                         am sup
posed to be what they call                       " Darwinian."                                       :
   If that not enough, could exhaust the                                                                  .
                                                                     Greek alphabet for

heads in addition.

   1  Delivered on Friday evenings from April to June at Jermyn Street, and

reported in the Medical Times.                   They formed the basis of his well-known little
                                                 published 1866. He writes on April 22 --
b"oMokacmonillaEnlemheans tajruyst  Physiology,  me, and 'am let in for a school book on
                                    been with    I

physiology based on these lectures of mine. Money arrangements not quite
                                    good fellow, and will not do me unnecessarily."
fixed yet, but he  is
                       a

1S63 PRESSURE OF WORK 247

    I am glad to hear that Wyman thinks well of my book, as he
is very competent to judge. I hear it is republished in America,
I Ibut suppose shall get nothing out of it.*

An undated letter to Kingsley, who had suggested that

he should write an article on                     Prayer,  belongs  probably to the

autumn of 1863 :--

    I should like very much to write such an article as you suggest,
but I am very doubtful about undertaking it for Fraser. Anything
I could say would go to the root of praying altogether, for inasmuch
Ias the whole universe is governed, so far as can see, in the same

wphayy,sicaanl--d wthheatemveorralmwiliotarltdes  is as much governed       by laws     as the
                                                    against asking for one            blessing
                                                                             sort of

seems to me to tell with the same force against asking for any

other.

    Not that I mean for a moment to say that prayer is illogical,

for if the whole universe is ruled by fixed laws it is just as logically

absurd for me to ask you to answer                this letter  as   toanask"  the  Almighty
to alter the weather. The whole                   argument      is            old   foe with

I Ia new face," the freedom and necessity question over again.
    If were to write about the question should have to develop

all this side of the problem, and then having shown that logic, as

Ialways happens when it is carried to extremes, leaves us bombinantes
in vacuo,  should appeal to experience to show that prayers of
this sort are not answered, and to science to prove that if they
were they would do a great deal of harm.

      But you know this would never do for the atmosphere of

Fraser. It would be much better suited for an article in my

favourite organ, the wicked Westminster.

    IHowever, to say truth, I do not see how am to undertake any
thing fresh just at present. I have promised an article for Mac
Imillan ages ago ; and Masson scowls at me whenever we meet.

am afraid to go through the Albany lest Cook should demand
Icertain reviews of books which have been long in my hands.
                                                                                                  am

just completing a long memoir for the Linnean Society; a monograph

on certain fossil reptiles  must be               finished before the       "nleowomyeinagr.  in  My
lectures have begun, and     there is             a certain " Manual
                                                                                                  the

background. And to crown all, these late events 1 have given me

Isuch a wrench that feel I must be prudent.

      The following reference to Robert Lowe, afterwards

Lord Sherbrooke, has a quasi-prophetic interest :--

           1 The death of his brother.

248              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     CHAP. XVII

  ...May 7. --Dined at the Smiths' 1 last night.Lowe was to have

been there, but had a dinner-party of his own.       I have come

to the conviction that our friend Bob is a most admirable, well-

judging statesman, for he says I am the only man fit to be at the

head of the British Museum,2 and that if he had his way he would

put me there.

     Years afterwards, on Sir R. Owen's retirement, he was

offered the post, but declined    as he greatly disliked the
                                  it,
                                                                     it,
kind of work. At the same time, he pointed out to the

Minister who made the offer that the man of all others for

the post would be the late distinguished holder of Sir W.

H. Flower, a suggestion happily acted on.

     Early in August a severe loss befell him in the sudden

death of his brother George, who had been his close friend

ever since he had returned from Australia, who had given

him all the help and sympathy in his struggles that could

be given by man of the world without special interests in
     if

              a
science or literature. With brilliancy enough to have won

                                           he was not only
success he had had patience to ensure      it,
                                  " clubbable man " in Johnson'sa
a    pleasant companion,  ;

                               a
phrase, but friend to trust. The two households had seen
     a

much of one another the childless couple regarded their

brother's children almost as their own. Thus                  real gap

was made in the family circle, and the trouble was not

lessened by the fact that George Huxley's affairs were left in

great confusion, and his brother not only spent a great deal

of time in looking after the interests of the widow, but took

upon himself certain obligations in order to make things

straight, with the result that he was even compelled to part

with his Royal Medal, the gold of which was worth £50.

     Dr. (afterwards Sir William) Smith, of dictionary fame.
                  i.e. of the Natural History Collections.
     1
                       2

                 CHAPTER XVIII

                                     1864

THE year 1864 was much like 1863. The Hunterian
Lectures were still part of his regular work. The Fishery

Commission claimed a large portion of his time. From

March 28 to April 2 he was in Cornwall ; on May 7 at
Shoreham ; from July 24 to September 9 visiting the coasts
of Scotland and Ireland. The same pressure of work con

tinued. He published four papers on paleontological or

anatomical subjects in the Natural History Review,* he wrote
" Further Remarks upon the Human Remains from the

Neanderthal,"    and    later (see    pp. 273    and 288), dealing with
" Criticisms on    the    Origin
                                     of Species  " {Collected Essays II.
p. 80, " Darwiniana
                        he gently but firmly dispersed several; "),
                                  a
misconceptions of his old friend Kolliker as to the plain

meaning of the book and ridiculed the pretentious ignor

ance of M. Flourens' dicta upon the same subject while in
                                                  a
the winter he delivered              course of lectures to working
men on " The Various Races of Mankind,"                ;
                                                        choice of

subject which shows that his chief interest at that time lay

in Ethnology.                        Jermyn Street, Jan. 16, 1864.

My dear Darwin -- have had no news of you for long time,
1I                                                ?
                                                     a
    if
                                                       It
                                ;
                                                                    a
                       II                                                               ;
but earnestly hope you are better.
                                                                                      of
Have you any objection to putting your name to Flower's cer

tificate for the Royal Society herewith inclosed  will please him

much you will and go bail for his being thoroughly good

toChnaelatbhGaeOereon"nlosOg"issCi"cteeatol alaocSngeodyacine"ottfyFh;otehsesiilSnsGtreutntecuhrtsomusreeeGdlyooZpffitpohttdhhiueeosn,SZ"tbooyoimnloCagtcuhihcveaieli,Pnrh,"ipDl.aeipnseTmrrstaohndesuo.snTraR"nusfAuarsccttioo"cnesbaunsd

                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap, xvim

man in all senses of the word -- which, as you know, is more than I

would say for everybody.

      Don't write any reply ; but Mrs. Darwin perhaps will do me the

kindness to send the thing on to Lyell as per enclosed envelope. I

will write him a note about it.

      We are all well, barring customary colds and various forms of

infantile pip. As for myself, I am flourishing like a green bay tree

(appropriate comparison, Soapy Sam would observe), in consequence

of having utterly renounced societies and society since October.
     I have
"               been working like    a horse,  however,   --anTdousthaallvouws,ork
   horser " as  my college lectures  begin in  February.
                                                  T. H. Huxley.

                                         Royal School of Mines,
                                     Jermyn Street, April 18, 1864.

     My dear Darwin -- I was rejoiced to see your handwriting
again, so much so that I shall not scold you for undertaking the
needless exertion (as it's my duty to do) of writing to thank me for

my book.*

    I thought the last lecture would be nuts for you, but it is really

shocking. There is not the smallest question that Owen wrote both
the article "Oken" and the
second edition in French --   Archetype Book,  Iwhich appeared     in its

                             why, I know not.         think that  if you
will look at what I say again, there will not be much doubt left in

your mind as to the identity of the writer of the two.

    IThe news you give of yourself is most encouraging ; but pray

don't think of doing any work again yet. Careful as have been

Iduring this last winter not to burn the candle at both ends, have

found myself, since the pressure of my lectures ceased, in consider
Iable need of quiet, and have been lazy accordingly.
                know that I fear, with you, caring too much for science

                are lots of other things should like to go into as well,
    IIdon't
--forthere
but I do lament more and more as time goes on, the necessity of

becoming more and more absorbed in one kind of work, a necessity

which is created for any one in my position, partly by one's reputa

tion, and partly by one's children. For directly a man gets the

smallest repute in any branch of science, the world immediately

credits him with knowing about ten times as much as he really does,

and he becomes bound in common honesty to do his best to climb
up to his reputed place. And then the babies are a devouring fire,

eating up the present and discounting the future ; they are sure to

want all the money one can earn, and to be the better for all the

credit one can win.

    However, I should fare badly without the young monkeys.

                1 Hunterian Lectures on Anatomy.

                              THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR

Your    pe"tcaMna'tr,"ianbyisthaelmwoasyt .  as  shy as  ever, though  she has left off

saying
    My wife is wonderfully well. As I tell her, Providence has
appointed her to take care of me when I am broken down and

decrepit.
    I hope you
                              c--anAnsady  as much of Mrs. Darwin. Pray        give  her
    kind regards.                          believe me, ever yours faithfully,
my                                                               T. H. Huxley.

    A letter to his sister gives a sketch of his position at

this time, speaking           of which he says           to Dr.  (afterwards   Sir J.)
Fayrer, " You and             I have travelled           a long  way, in all
                                                                               senses,

since you settled my career for me on the steps of the Charing

Cross Hospital." It must be remembered that his sister

was living in Tennessee, and that her son at fifteen was

serving in the Confederate army.

                                                         Jermyn Street, 4/5/64.

      You will want to know something about my progress in the

world. Well, at this moment I am Professor of Natural History

here, and Hunterian Professor of Comparative Anatomy at the
ICollege of Surgeons. The former is the appointment I have held
sIinhcaeve18d5e5live; rethde  latter chair        was asked to take last year, and now
                              two courses        in that famous black gown with the

red facings which the doctor will recollect very well. What with the

Iduties of these two posts and other official and non-official business,

   am worked to the full stretch of my powers, and sometimes a

little beyond them ; though hitherto I have stood the wear and tear

very well.

    I believe I have won myself a pretty fair place in science, but
in addition to that I have the reputation (of which, I fear, you will

not approve) of being a great heretic and a savage controversialist

always in rows. To the accusation of heresy I fear I must plead
guilty ; but the second charge proceeds only, I do assure you, from
a certain unconquerable hatred of lies and humbug which I cannot

get over.

    I have read all you tell me about the south with much interest

and with the warmest sympathy, so far as the fate of the south

affects you. But I am in the condition of most thoughtful English

men. My heart goes with the south, and my head with the north.

    II have no love for the Yankees, and I delight in the energy and

self-sacrifice of your people ; but for all that, cannot doubt that

whether you beat the Yankees or not, you are struggling to uphold

Ia system which must, sooner or later, break down.

         have not the smallest sentimental sympathy with the negro ;

2J2       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                chap, xviii

don't believe in him at all, in short. But it is clear to me that

slavery means, for the white man, bad political economy ; bad social
morality ; bad internal political organisation, and a bad influence
upon free labour and freedom all over the world. For the sake of

the white man, therefore, for your children and grandchildren,

directly, and for mine, indirectly, I wish to see this system ended.*

Would that the south had had the wisdom to initiate that end with

out this miserable war !

    IAll this must jar upon you sadly, and grieve that it does so ;
I Ibut could not pretend to be other than am, even to please you.
ILet us agree to differ upon this point. If I were in your place
I Idoubt not I should feel as you do ; and, when think of you, put

myself in your place and feel with you as your brother Tom. The

learned   agneontthleemr an"   who    has public  opinions for which he is respon
sible is                      party  " who walks   about in T's clothes when he is

not thinking of his sister.

    If this were not my birthday I should not feel justified in taking

a morning's holiday to write this long letter to you. The ghosts of

undone pieces of work are dancing about me, and I must come to

an end.

    Give my love to your husband. I am glad to hear he wears so

well. And don't forget to give your children kindly thoughts of

their uncle. Dr. Wright gives a great account of my namesake,

and says he is the handsomest youngster in the Southern States.

That comes of his being named after me, you know how renowned

Ifor personal beauty always was.
    I asked Dr. Wright if you had taken to spectacles, and he
Iseemed to think not.
                                     had a pain about my eyes a few months
Iago, but found spectacles made this rather worse and left them
Ioff again. However, do catch myself holding a newspaper further
off than I used to do.
                                                                                 If
      Now don't let six months go    by without   sewnrditinaggaina.g2a--in.         our
little venture succeeds this time,    we shall                                Ever,  my
                                                  T. H. Huxley.
dearest Lizzie, your affectionate brother,

     He writes to his wife, who had taken the children to
Margate :--

    I--Sept. 22. am now busy over a paper for the Zool. Soc. ; after

that there is one for the Ethnological which was read last session
though not written. . . . Don't blaspheme about going into the bye-

      1 Cf. Reader, February 27 onwards, where these general arguments against
slavery appear in a controversy arising from his ninth Hunterian Lecture, in
which, while admitting negro inferiority, he refutes those who justify slavery on
the ground that physiologically the negro is very low in the scale.

     1 i.e. a package of various presents to the family.

                 CRITICISMS OF THE ' ORIGIN'                                                                       253

ways. They are both in the direct road of the book, only over the

hills instead of going over the beaten path.

    IOct. 6. -- heard from Darwin last night jubilating over an
article of mine which is published in the last number of the Nat.

Hist. Review, and which he is immensely pleased with. . . . My
I Ilectures tire me, from want of practice, suppose.
                                                                                                                   shall soon get

into swing.

     The article in question was the " Criticisms of the Origin

of Species," of which he writes to Darwin :--

                               Jermyn Street, Oct. 5, 1864.

    My dear Darwin -- I am very glad to see your handwriting (in

ink) again, and none the less on account of the pretty words into
which it was shaped.

     It is a great pleasure to me that you like the article, for it was
written very hurriedly, and I did not feel sure when I had done

Ithat had always rightly represented your views.

IHang the two scalps up in your wigwam !

Flourens could have believed anything of, but how a man of

Kolliker's real intelligence and ability could have so misunderstood

Ithe question is more than can comprehend.
It will be a thousand pities, however, if any review interferes

Iwith your saying something on the subject yourself.                                                                Unless it

should give you needless work heartily wish you would.                                                             that I am

    Everybody tells me I am looking so exceedingly well

ashamed to say a word to the contrary. But the fact
                               II                                                                                  get no
                                               a

                                                Ia
                                                        iIs,

                                                                  I
exercise, and great deal of bothering work on our Commission's
;

            a
Cruise and though much fatter (indeed regular bloater myself),
am not up to the mark. Next year will have real holiday.*

am bachelor, my wife and belongings being all at that
I

              a

beautiful place, Margate. When came back                                                                           found them all

looking so seedy that took them off bag and baggage to that, as
                 I

                            a
the handiest place, before week was over. They are wonderfully

improved already, my wife especially being abundantly provided
with her favourite east wind. Your godson
                                           growing very sturdy
                                           is
                                                                a
                                                                          is
fellow, and begin to puzzle my head with thinking what he and
is

  I
what he not to be taught.

Please to remember me very kindly to Mrs. Darwin, and believe
                                           T. H. Huxley.
me, yours very faithfully,

      The following illustrates the value he set upon public
examinations as to practical means for spreading scientific

        At the end of the year, as so often, he went off for ploy with Tyndall,
this time into Derbyshire, walking- vigorously over the moors.
1

                                  a

                                                                                                                a

354     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, xviii

education, and upon first-rate examiners as a safeguard of
proper methods of teaching.

                                                                                                              Oct. 6, 1864.

    My dear Hooker-- Donnelly told me to-day that you had

been applied to by the Science and Tarts Department to examine
for them in botany, and that you had declined.

    Will you reconsider the matter ? I have always taken a very
great interest in the science examinations, looking upon them, as I

do, as the most important engine for forcing science into ordinary

education.
      The English nation will not take science from above, so it must

get it from below.

    Having known these examinations from the beginning, I can

assure you that they are very genuine things, and are working ex

cellently. And what I have regretted from the first is that the

botanical business was not taken in hand by you, instead of

by .

      Now, like a good fellow, think better of it. The papers are
necessarily very simple, and one of Oliver's pupils could look them

over for you. Let us have your co-operation and the advantage of

that reputation for honesty and earnestness which you have con

trived   (Heaven knows  how) to get.   for   want   of exercise.  All my
        have come back  fat and seedy
    I

belongings are at Margate.       Hope you    don't  it.th--inEk vemr yyoruervsiewfaithof
Darwin's critics too heretical  if you have  seen   T. H. Huxley.

fully,

      When is our plan for getting some kind of meetings during the
winter to be organised ?

      The next two letters refer to the award of the Copley
Medal to Mr. Darwin. Huxley was exceedingly indignant
at an attempt on the part of the president to discredit the
Origin by a side wind :---

                                                Jer.myn Strut, Nov. 4, 1864.

    My dear Darwin -- I write two lines which are not to be
Ianswered, just as to say how delighted am at the result of the

doings of the Council of the Royal Society yesterday. Many of us
were somewhat doubtful of the result, and the more ferocious sort

had begun to whet their beaks and sharpen their claws in prepara
tion for taking a very decided course of action had there been any
failure of justice this time. But the affair was settled by a splendid
majority, and our ruffled feathers are smoothed down.

     Your well-won reputation would not have been lessened by the
lack of the Copley, but it would have been an indelible reproach to

        DARWIN'S COPLEY MEDAL                                                  255

the Royal Society not to have given it you, and a good many of us

had no notion of being made to share that ignominy.

      But quite apart from all these grand public-spirited motives and

their results, you ought as a philanthropist to be rejoiced in the

Igreat satisfaction the award has given to your troops of friends, to               I
none more than my wife           --(whYoomurs   woke   up to tell the    news when
got home late last night).                      ever,             T. H.
                                                                         Huxley.

      Please remember us kindly to Mrs. Darwin, and make our con
gratulations to her on owning a Copley medallist.

                                                Jermyn Street, Dec. 3, 1864.

      My dear Hooker-- I wish you had been at the Anniversary

Meeting and Dinner, because the latter was very pleasant, and the

former, to me, very disagreeable. My distrust of Sabine is as you

know chronic, and I went determined to keep careful watch on his

address, lest some crafty phrase injurious to Darwin should be intro

dDuacrew"d.iSnpewMarkiytitnesgnuspbgiyecnioSenarsbailnlywe earhenimdjussceotlilfflieeccodtin.vtealyTin,heedwoetnhlheyavfpoealrltoewxopifnretghsesplyaadssdoarmgeiests:te--dto

it (Darwin's theory) from the grounds of our award."
     Of course this would be interpreted by everybody as meaning

that, after due discussion, the council had formally resolved not only

to exclude Darwin's theory from the grounds of the award, but to

give public notice through the president that they had done so, and

furthermore, that Darwin's friends had been base enough to accept

an honour for him on the understanding that in receiving it he

should be publicly insulted !

    I felt that this would never do, and therefore when the resolu
tion for printing the address was moved, I made a speech which I

took care to keep perfectly cool and temperate, disavowing all in

tention of interfering with the liberty of the president to say what

he pleased, but exercising my constitutional right of requiring the

minutes of council making the award to be read, in order that the

Society might be informed whether the conditions implied by Sabine

had been imposed or not.

     The resolution was read, and of course nothing of the kind

appeared. Sabine didn't exactly like                        believe. Both Busk and
      1

         a
                                      it

                                                                  is

                                                iIt,
                                                      I

                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                   1

                                                                                                                       it
Falconer remonstrated against the passage to him, and hope

will be withdrawn when the address printed.*
    If
        n--otEvtehreryeouwrsill    be an awful  row,   and  for one will show       no
mercy.                           faithfully,                  T. H. Huxley.

     The foundation of the x Club towards the end of 864
was notable event for Huxley and his circle of scientific

        The passage stands in the published address, but followed by another
passage which softens down.

                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY    CHAP. XVIII

friends. It was growing more and more difficult for them

to see one another except now and again at meetings of the

learned societies, and even that was quite uncertain. The

pressure of Huxley's own work may be inferred from his
letters at this time (especially to Darwin, July 2, 1863, and

January 16, 1864). Not only society, but societies had to
be almost entirely given up. Moreover, the distance from

one another at which some of these friends lived, added

another difficulty, so that Huxley writes to Hooker in his
" remote province " of Kew : " I wonder if we are ever to

meet again in this world." Accordingly in January 1864,

Hooker gladly embraced a proposal of Huxley's to organise

some kind of regular meeting, a proposal which bore fruit

in the establishment of the x Club. On November 3,

1864, the first meeting was held at St. George's Hotel,

Albemarle Street, where they resolved to dine regularly
" except when Benham cannot have us, in which case dine at

the Athenaeum." In the latter eighties, however,the Athenaeum

became the regular place of meeting, and it was here that
the " coming of age " of the club was celebrated in 1885.

     Eight members met at the first meeting ; the second

meeting brought their numbers up to nine by the addition

of W. Spottiswoode, but the proposal to elect a tenth member

was never carried out. On the principle of lucus a non

lucendo, this lent an additional appropriateness to the

symbol x, the origin of which Huxley thus describes in his

reminiscences of Tyndall in the  Nineteenth  Century  for

January 1 894 :--

At starting, our minds were terribly exercised over the name and

constitution of our society.  mAesmobpeirnsio--nsindoenedthims ogrreaveso--mawtteerfinwaelrley
no less numerous than the

accepted the happy suggestion of our mathematicians to call it the
x Club ; and the proposal of some genius among us, that we should

have no rules, save the unwritten law not to have any, was carried

by acclamation.

     Besides Huxley, the members of the club were as

follows :--

     George Busk, F.R.S. (1807-87), then secretary of the
Linnean Society, a skilful anatomist.1

1 He served as surgeon to the hospital ship Dreadnought at Greenwich till

1864 THE X CLUB            257

      Edward Frankland (1825-1899), For. Sec. R.S., K.C.B.,
then Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution, and
afterwards at the Royal College of Science.

      Thomas Archer Hirst, F.R.S., then mathematical master

at University College School.1
     Joseph Dalton Hooker, F.R.S., K.C.S.I., Pres. R.S. 1873,

the great botanist, then Assistant Director at Kew Gardens
to his father, Sir William Hooker.

     Sir John Lubbock, Bart., F.R.S., M.P., the youngest of
the nine, who had already made his mark in archaeology,

and was then preparing to bring out his Prehistoric Times.

      Herbert Spencer, who had already published Social

Statistics, Principles of Psychology, and First Principles.
     William Spottiswoode (1825-1883), F.R.S., Treasurer

and afterwards President R.S. 1878, who carried on the
business of the Queen's printer as well as being deeply versed
in mathematics, philosophy, and languages.

     John Tyndall, F.R.S. (1820- 1893), who had been for the
last eleven years Professor of Natural Philosophy at the Royal

Institution, where he succeeded Faraday as superintendent.
     The one object, then, of the club was to afford a certain

meeting-ground for a few friends who were bound together
by personal regard and community of scientific interests, yet
were in danger of drifting apart under the stress of circum

stances. They dined together on the first Thursday in each

month, except July, August, and September, before the meet
ing of the Royal Society, of which all were members excepting

Mr. Spencer, the usual dining hour being six, so that they

should be in good time for the society's meeting at eight ; and
a minute of December 5, 1885, when Huxley was treasurer
and revived the ancient custom of making some note of the
conversation, throws light on the habits of the club. " Got
scolded," he writes, " for dining at 6.30. Had to prove we
have dined at 6.30 for a long time by evidence of waiter.

1856, when he resigned, and, retiring from practice, devoted himself to scientific
pursuits, and was elected President of the College of Surgeons in 187 1.
     1 In 1865 appointed Professor of Physics; in 1867, of Pure Mathematics,

at University College, London; and from 1873 to 1883 Director of Naval
Studies at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich ; an old Marburg student, and

intimate friend of Tyndall, whom he had succeeded at Queenwood College in
1853. He died in 1892.
VOL. I
                        S

258            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xvm

(At the February meeting, however, " agreed to fix dinner
hour   six hereafter.")      Talked                scandal, and the
three  classes of witnesses             politics,  liars, and experts.
                             -- liars,  dd

Huxley gave account of civil list pension. Sat to the un

exampled hour of 10 P.M., except Lubbock who had to go

to Linnaean."

     For some time there was a summer meeting, which con

sisted of a week-end excursion of members and their wives

(x's + yv's, as the correct formula ran) to some place like
Burnham or Maidenhead, Oxford or Windsor ; but this

grew increasingly difficult to arrange, and dropped before

very long.

     Guests were not excluded from the dinners of the club ;

men of science or letters of almost every nationality dined

with the x at one time or another ; Darwin, W. K. Clifford,

Colenso, Strachey, Tollemache, Helps ; Professors Bain,

Masson, Robertson Smith, and Bentham the botanist, Mr.

John Morley, Sir D. Galton, Mr. Jodrell, the founder of
several scientific lectureships ; Dr. Klein ; the Americans
Marsh, Gilman, A. Agassiz, and Youmans, the latter of whom

met here several of the contributors to the International

Science Series organized by him ; and continental representa

tives, as Helmholtz, Laugel, and Cornu.

     Small as the club was, the members of it were destined

to play a considerable part in the history of English science.

Five of them received the Royal Medal ; three the Copley ;
one the Rumford ; six were Presidents of the British Associa
tion ; three Associates of the Institute of France ; and from

amongst them the Royal Society chose a Secretary, a Foreign

Secretary, a Treasurer, and three successive Presidents.

    I think, originally (writes Huxley, I.e.) there was some vague

notion of associating representatives of each branch of science ; at
any rate, the nine who eventually came together could have man
aged, among us, to contribute most of the articles to a scientific

Encyclopaedia.

     They   ionfcludsceiedncleea:d--inmg atrheepmreasteicnst,ativepshysoicfs,  half a dozen
                                                                                  philosophy,
branches

chemistry, botany, and biology ; and all were animated

by similar ideas of the high function of science, and of the

1864 THE X CLUB                                                                                                                                                                      »S9

great Society which should be the chief representative of

science in this country.       However unnecessary, it was per

haps not unnatural that a certain jealousy of the club and

its possible influence  grew   up in    soimnceidqeunatartlelyrs--.                                                                                                             But    what
ever influence fell to  it as  it were                                                                                                                                        and    earnest

men with such opportunities of mutual understanding and

such ideals of action could not fail to have some influence

on the progress of scientific organization --it was assuredly

not sectarian nor exerted for party purposes during the

twenty-eight years of the club's existence.

    I believe that the x (continues Huxley) had the credit of being

a sort of scientific caucus, or ring, with some people. In fact, two

distinguished scientific colleagues of mine once carried on a con
I I ItovahebferoysutahttedioontAh?teh"(ewxnhaC"iecluWhumbe,ll?,gt"rotahvetehy"liysOghoiegvfenyfereoncsr,te, dsB"c).,ieacnsrtaohiyfsa,iscvAeam.,fefha,deiorasinr,dyaotnhuodef
Ifwhole, they don't do it badly."                                                                                                                                              smoking-room
                                                                                                                                                                              know anything

                                                                                                                                                                               it. What do

                                                                                                                                                                               really, on the

                                   my good friends could only have
Ibeen present at a few of our meetings, they would have formed a

much less exalted idea of us, and would, fear, have been much

shocked at the sadly frivolous tone of our ordinary conversation.

     The x club is probably unique in the smallness of its
numbers, the intellectual eminence of its members, and the

length of its unchanged existence. The nearest parallel is to

be found in "The Club."1 Like the x, "The Club" began

with eight members at its first meeting, and of the original

members Johnson lived twenty years, Reynolds twenty-eight,
Burke thirty-three, and Bennet Langton thirty-seven. But
the ranks were earlier broken. Within ten years Gold

smith died, and he was followed in a twelvemonth by

Nugent, and five years later by Beauclerk and Chamier.

Moreover, the eight were soon increased to twelve ; then to

twenty and finally to forty, while the gaps were filled up as

they occurred.

      In the x, on the contrary, nearly nineteen years passed

before the original circle was broken by the death of Spottis-

woode.    From    1864 to   Spuontbtirsowkeonode; 'sthdeeatmheeitning1s88"3                                                                                                            the
original  circle  remained                                                                                                                                                           were

     1 Of which Huxley was elected a member in 1884. Tyndall and Hooker
were also members.

26o  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                       chap, xvm

steadily continued for some twenty years, before our ranks

began to thin ; and one by one, geistige Naturen such as
those for which the poet 1 so willingly paid the ferryman,
silent but not unregarded, took the vacated places." The
peculiar constitution of the club scarcely seemed to admit
of new members ; not, at all events, without altering the
unique relation of friendship joined to common experience
of struggle and success which had lasted so long. After
the death of Spottiswoode and Busk, and the ill-health of
other members, the election of new members was indeed

mooted, but the proposal was ultimately negatived.   Huxley's
opinion on this point appears from letters to Sir
                                                    E. Frank
land in 1886 and to Sir J. D. Hooker in 1888.

    IAs for the filling up the vacancies in the x, am disposed to

take Tyndall's view of the matter. Our little club had no very
definite object beyond preventing a few men who were united by
strong personal sympathies from drifting apart by the pressure of

busy lives.
      Nobody could have foreseen or expected twenty odd years ago

when we first met, that we were destined to play the parts we have
since played, and it is in the nature of things impossible that any
of the new members proposed (much as we may like and respect
them all), can carry on the work which has so strangely fallen

to us.

     An axe with a new head and a new handle may be the same
axe in one sense, but it is not the familiar friend with which one

has cut one's way through wood and brier.

     And in the other letter--

     What with the lame dog condition of Tyndall and Hirst and

ISpencer and my own recurrent illnesses, the x is not satisfactory.

But don't see that much will come from putting new patches in.
The x really has no raison d'etre beyond the personal attachment
of its original members. Frankland told me of the names that had
been mentioned, and none could be more personally welcome to
me . . . but somehow or other they seem out of place in the x.

    IHowever, am not going to stand out against the general wish,
Iand shall agree to anything that is desired.

                                  1 Nimm dann Fuhrmann,
                                     Nimm die Miethe
                                     Die Ich gerne dreifach biete ;
                                          Zwei, die eben iiberfuhren
                                          Waren geistige Naturen.

                THE X CLUB                                                261

Again --

The club has never had any purpose except the purely personal

object of bringing together a few friends who did not want to drift
Iam-wpiiaggrsht.tofsavIytarahiocaucssidheaknpitnpaedllnsye,--danhtdahdatthatehgreeosfooedrecdroetnahileesofchliunabfdluedhneavcseeloiinpnectdidheenisntcatiolelynb--tiifgic
Iworld. But if I had to propose to a man to join, and he were to say,
Well, what is   y"ouOrbjeocbtj,ecGt o? d     should   have to reply like   the needy
knife-grinder,                            bless you,  sir, we've none to  show."

As he wrote elsewhere --{loc. cit.) :

      Later on, there were attempts to add other members, which at

last became wearisome, and had to be arrested by the agreement
that no proposition of that kind should be entertained, unless the
name of the new member suggested contained all the consonants

absent from the names of the old ones. In the lack of Slavonic

friends this decision put an end to the possibility of increase.

      After the death, in February 1892, of Hirst, a most
devoted supporter of the club, who " would, I believe, repre

sent it in his sole person rather than pass the day over,"

only one more meeting took place, in the following month.

With five of the six survivors domiciled far from town,

meeting after meeting fell through, until the treasurer wrote,
" My idea is that it is best to let it die out unobserved, and

say nothing about its decease to anyone."

Thus it came to pass that the March meeting of the

club in 1893 remained its last. No ceremony ushered it
out of existence. Its end exemplified a saying of Sir J.
Hooker's, " At our ages clubs are an anachronism."                        It had

met 240 times, yet, curious to say, although the average
attendance up to 1883 was seven out of nine, the full
strength of the club only met on twenty-seven occasions.

                 CHAPTER XIX

                                                  1865

THE progress of the American civil war suggested to Huxley
in 1865 the text for an article, "Emancipation, Black and
White," the emancipation of the negro in America and the
emancipation of women in England, which appeared in the
Reader of May 20 (Coll. Ess. iii. 66). His main argument for
the emancipation of the negro was that already given in his
letter to his sister (p. 272); namely, that in accordance
with the moral law that no human being can arbitrarily
dominate over another without grievous damage to his own
nature, the master will benefit by freedom more than the
freed-man. And just as the negro will never take the highest
places in civilisation yet need not to be confined to the
lowest, so, he argues, it will be with women. " Nature's old
salique law will never be repealed, and no change of dynasty
will be effected," although " whatever argument justifies a
given education for all boys justifies its application to girls

as well."

      With this may be compared his letter to the Times of

July 8, 1874 (Chapter XXVII).

      No scientific monographs were published in 1865 by
Huxley, but his lectures of the previous winter to working-
men on " The Various Races of Mankind " are an indication
of his continued interest in Ethnology, which, set going, as
has been said, by the promise to revise the woodcuts for
Lyell's book, found expression in such papers as the
"Human Remains in the Shell Mounds," 1863; the
" Neanderthal Remains " of 1 864 ; the " Methods and
Results of Ethnology " of 1865; his Fullerian Lectures of

186s ETHNOLOGICAL WORK                                                          263

1866-67; papers on "Two Widely Contrasted Forms of
the Human Cranium " of 1 866 and 1 868 ; the " Patagonian
Skulls" of 1868; and "Some Fixed Points in British
Ethnology" of 187 1 --

     His published ethnological papers (says Sir Michael Foster)
are not numerous, nor can they be taken as a measure of his in

fluence on this branch of study. In many ways he has made him

self felt, not the least by the severity with which on the one hand

he repressed the pretensions of shallow persons who, taking advantage

of the glamour of the Darwinian doctrine, talked nonsense in the

name of anthropological science, and on the other hand, exposed

those who in the structure of the brain or of other parts, saw an

impassable gulf between man and the monkey. The episode of the

"hippocampus" stirred for a while not only science but the general

public. He used his influence, already year by year growing

more and more powerful, to keep the study of the natural history

of man within its proper lines, and chiefly with this end in view

held the Presidential Chair of the Ethnological Society in 1869-70.
It was mainly through his influence that this older Ethnological

Society   was, a year later, in  1871,  tahmeatlgitalemaotfed"     with a newer rival
society,  the Anthropological,   under                          The Anthropological

Institute."

During this time he was constantly occupied with

paleontological  --work,  as     the    following               letter  to Sir  C.
Lyell indicates

                                        Jermyn Street, Nov. 27, 1865.

    My dear Sir Charles --I returned last night from a hasty
journey to Ireland, whither I betook myself on Thursday night,

being attracted vulture-wise by the scent of a quantity of carboni

I Iferous corpses. The journey was as well worth the trouble as any
   ever undertook, seeing that in a morning's work turned out ten
genera of vertebrate animals of which five are certainly new ; and of

these four are Labyrinthodonts, amphibia of new types. These four

are baptised Ophiderpcton, Lepterpeton, Ichthyerpeton, Keraterpeton.

They all have ossified spinal columns and limbs.                        The special

interest attaching to the two first is that they represent a type of

Labyrinthodonts hitherto unknown, and corresponding with Siren

and Amphiuma among living Amphibia. Ophiderpeton, for example,
is like an eel, about three feet long with small fore legs and rudi

mentary hind ones.
     In the year of grace 1861, there were three genera of European

carboniferous Labyrinthodonts known, Archegosaurus, Scleroceplus,

Parabatrachus.

264              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        chap, xix

     The vertebral column of Archegosaurus was alone known, and
it was in a remarkably imperfect state of ossification. Since that date,

by a succession of odd chances, seven new genera have come into

my hands, and of these six certainly have well-ossified and developed

vertebral columns.

    I reckon there are now about thirty genera of Labyrinthodonts
known from all parts of the world and all deposits. Of these eleven

have been established by myself in the course of the last half-dozen

years, upon remains which have come into my hands by the merest

chance.

     Five and twenty years ago, all the world but yourself believed

that a vertebrate animal of higher organisation than a fish in the
Icarboniferous rocks never existed.
                                      think the whole story is not a

bad comment upon negative evidence.

                                                      fan. 1, 1865.

     My dear Darwin -- I cannot do better than write my first
letter of the year to you, if it is only to wish you and yours your
fair share (and more than your fair share, if need be) of good for
the New Year. The immediate cause of my writing, however, was

turning out my pocket and finding therein an unanswered letter of

Iyours containing a scrap on which is a request for a photograph,
which I am afraid I overlooked. At least hope I did, and then
Imy manners won't be so bad.
                                      enclose the latest version of

I Imyself.       could follow out your suggestion about a book on
           wish

zoology. (By the way please to tell Miss Emma that my last

book is a book.* Marry come up ! Does her ladyship call it a

Ipamphlet ?)

     But assure you that writing is a perfect pest to me unless I

am interested, and not only a bore but a very slow process. I have

some popular lectures on Physiology,2 which have been half done

for more than a twelvemonth, and I hate the sight of them because

the subject no longer interests me, and my head is full of other

matters.
I"
    So have      just done  giving a set of lectures  to working-men on
                  Races of  Mankind," which really    would make a book
The Various
in Miss Emma's sense of the word, and which I have had reported.
IBut when am to work them up ? Twenty-four Hunterian Lectures

     1 The first volume of his Hunterian Lectures on Comparative Anatomy. A
second volume never appeared. Miss Darwin, as her father wrote to Huxley
Iafter the delivery of his Working Men's Lectures in 1862, "was reading your
Lectures, and ended by saying, ' I wish he would write a book.'  answered,
'he has just written a great book on the skull.' ' I don't call that a book,' she
replied, and added, ' I want something that people can read ; he does write so
well.'"
     a See letter of April 22, 1863.

186s LETTERS TO DARWIN                                                    265

Iloom between me and Easter.            am dying to get out the second

volume of the book that is not a book, but in vain.
    I Itrust you are better, though the last news
ILubbock                                               had of you from

     With
        was not so encouraging as could         have wished.          --  Ever
        best wishes and remembrances            to Mrs. Darwin
                                                       T. H. Huxley.
yours,

    Thanks for "fin Darwin," I had it.

                                        26 Abbey Place,/<z». 15, 1865.

     My dear Darwin          -- Many    thanks for     Deslongchamps' paper
                                          publication    yesterday morning in
Iwhich do not possess.       important
    I received another

the shape of a small but hearty son, who came to light a little before
six. The wife is getting on capitally, and we are both greatly

rejoiced at having another boy, as your godson ran great risks of

being spoiled by a harem of sisters.

    IThe leader in the Reader is mine, and am glad you like it.
The more so as it has got me into trouble with some of my friends.

However, the revolution that is going on is not to be made with

rose-water.

    II wish if anything occurs to you that would improve the

scientific part of the Reader, you would let me know as am in

great measure responsible for it.
    I                                   account of your
        am sorry not  to have a better   and the rest of  health.         With
kind    remembrances    to Mrs. Darwin                     your
                                                                      circle--
                                                       T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours faithfully,

                                        Jermyn Street, May 1, 1865.

    My dear Darwin --I send you by this post a booklet 1 none of

which is much worth your reading, while of nine-tenths of it you

may say as   "thtehatmathne  did who had been trying to read Johnson's
Dictionary,                  words were fine, but he couldn't make much

of the story."

But perhaps the young lady who has been kind enough to act

as taster of my books heretofore will read the explanatory notice,

and give me her ideas thereupon (always recollecting that almost

Ithewhole of it was   written in  the pre-Darwinian    --epotoch.)my  sorrow--
       do not hear     very good    accounts of you

though rumours have reached me that the opus magnum 2 is com

pletely developed though not yet born.

"A1 Probably    Catalogue    of the Collection  of Fossils in the Museum of

Practical Geology," etc.
     3 On Pangenesis.

266        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      CHAP. XIX

I Iings                   the mill                        a little  tired. My    belong
       am grinding    at  hope you  and    --getEtivnegr  yours     faithfully,
      flourishing as                 are.
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

                                                         Jermyn Street, May 29, 1865.

   IMy dear Darwin -- meant to have written to you yesterday
Ito say how glad shall be to read whatever you like to send me.

    I have to lecture at the Royal Institution this week, but after

IFriday, my time will be more at my own disposal than usual ; and
as always  shall be most particularly glad to be of any use to

you.
     Any glimmer of light on the question you speak of is of the

Iutmost importance, and shall be immensely interested in learning
I Iyour views. And of course need not add will do my best to

upset them. That is the nature of the beast.
    I had                                                                zoococlougrsist:s--of
           a letter from  one of     the   ablest of      the younger
Germany,   Haeckel, the   other     day,    in which       this passage
      " The Darwinian Theory, the establishment and development of

which is the object [of] all my scientific labours, has gained ground
Iimmensely in Germany (where it was at first so misunderstood)

during the last two years, and entertain no doubt that it will before

long be everywhere victorious." And he adds that I dealt far too

mildly with Kolliker.               to Mrs. Darwin and your family--
      With kindest remembrances
                                                           T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours faithfully,

     This year, as is seen from the foregoing, he was

again in direct communication with Professor Ernst
Haeckel of Jena, the earliest and strongest champion of
Darwinian ideas in Germany. The latter wished to enlarge

his observations by joining some English scientific expedi

tion, if any such were in preparation, but was dissuaded by
the following reply. The expected book of Darwin's was

the Pangenesis, and this is also referred to in the three

succeeding letters to Darwin himself.
                                                                    

                                  The Royal School of Mines,
                             Jermyn Street, London, June 7, 1865.

      My dear Sir -- Many thanks for your letter, and for the wel
I Icome present of your portrait, which I shall value
                                                                    greatly, and in

exchange for which        enclose my own. Indeed                      have        delayed
                                                                                 and im
writing to you in order to be able to send the last                 " new
proved " edition of myself.

1865 LETTER TO HAECKEL                                           267

    I wish it were in my power to help you to any such appoint
ment as that you wish for. But I do not think our government is

            out any scientific  expedition     to the South Seas.
           about a new Arctic   expedition,
                                               but I doubt if it will
Ilikely

There
to send
is a talk

come to much, and even if it should be organised     could not re

commend your throwing yourself away in an undertaking which

Ipromises more frost-bites than anything else to a naturalist.

     In truth, though have felt and can still feel the attraction of
foreign travel in all its strength, I would counsel you to stop at

home, and as Goethe says, find your America here. There are
plenty of people who can observe and whose places, if they are

expended by fever or shipwreck, can be well enough filled up.
But there are very few who can grapple with the higher problems of

science as you have done and are doing, and we cannot afford to

Ilose you. It is the organisation of knowledge rather than its in

crease which is wanted just now. And think you can help in

this great undertaking better in Germany than in New Zealand.
     Darwin has been very ill for more than a year past, so ill, in

fact, that his recovery was at one time doubtful. But he contrives

Ito work in spite of fate, and hope that before long we shall have a

new book from him.

    IBy way of consolation sent him an extract from your letter

touching the progress of his views.

    I am glad that you did not think my critique of Kolliker too
severe. He is an old friend of mine, and I desired to be as gentle

as possible, while performing the unpleasant duty of showing how

thoroughly he had misunderstood the question.
I II shall look with great interest for your promised book. Lately
have [been] busy with Ethnological questions, and    fear I shall

not altogether please your able friend Professor Schleicher in some
Iremarks have had to make upon the supposed value of philological

evidence.

May we hope to see you at the meeting of the British Associa
tion at Birmingham? It
                            would give   many, and   especially  --myEsvelef,r
much pleasure to become      personally  acquainted  with you.
                                               T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

                                Jermyn Street, June 1, 1865.

    My dear Darw1n --Your MS.* reached me safely last evening.

    II could not refrain from glancing over it on the spot, and

perceive I shall have to put on my sharpest spectacles and best

Iconsidering cap.           have thought well on the whole subject.
                                                            T. H. Huxley.
    I shall not write till
--Ever yours,

                            Of Pangenesis.

268           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY           chap, xix

                                       Jermyn Street, July 16, 1865.

     My dear Darwin -- I have just counted the pages of your MS.

to see that they are all right, and packed it up to send you by post,

registered, so I hope it will reach you safely. I should have sent it

yesterday, but people came in and bothered me about post time.

    I did not at all mean by what I said to stop you from publish
ing your views, and I really should not like to take that responsi

bility. Somebody rummaging among your papers half a century
hence will find Pangenesis and say, " See this wonderful anticipation

of our modern theories, and that stupid ass Huxley preventing his

publishing them." And then the Carlyleans of that day will make

me a text for holding forth upon the difference between mere

vulpine sharpness and genius.

    II am not going to be made a horrid example of in that way.

But all say publish your views, not so much in the shape of
formed conclusions, as of hypothetical developments of the only
I
                     is,
clue at present accessible, and don't give the Philistines more

chances of blaspheming than you can help.        been so ill again. --
                                                   T. H. Huxley.
          am very grieved to hear that you have
Ever yours faithfully,

                                       26 Abbey Place, Oct. 2, 1865.

     My dear Darwin --" This comes hoping you are well," and for

no other purpose than to say as much.    am just back from seven
                                       I
weeks' idleness at Littlehampton with my wife and children, theI

first time    haallveflohaudrishinhgol--idatyheofbaabniyesexpteanrtticwuiltahrlythesom--foanr dyearsf.ind
      We areII                                   I

                     is is                             is
                                    a
                                                       Ia
myself rather loth to begin grinding at the mill again. There
vein of laziness in me which crops out uncommonly strong in your

godson, who about the idlest, jolliest young four year old

know.

     You will have been as much grieved as have been about dearis
old Hooker. According to the last accounts, however, he mend

ing, and hope to see him in the pristine vigour again before long.

     My wife gone to bed or she would    join    Tymo. ueHr .infaHmtuhilexy.le--kyin.Edveesrt
regards and remembrances to Mrs. Darwin  and
yours faithfully,

      The sound judgment and nice sense of honour for whicha
Huxley was known among his friends often led those who

were in difficulties to appeal to him for advice. About this
time dispute arose over an alleged case of unacknowledged
" conveyance " of information. Writing to Hooker, he says

1865 THE INTERNATIONAL COLLEGE                                  269

the one party to the quarrel failed to " set the affair straight

with half a dozen words of frank explanation as he might
             "               other, " like all quiet and
have  done      as  to  the                               mild  men
            ;

who do get a grievance, he became about twice as ' wud 1

as Berserks like you and me." Both came to him, so that
he says, " I have found it very difficult to deal honestly with

both sides without betraying the confidence of either or

making matters worse." Happily, with his help, matters

--reached a peaceful solution, and his final comment is

    I don't mind fighting to the death in a good big row, but when
IA and B are supplying themselves from C's orchard, don't think it

is very much worth while to dispute whether B filled his pockets

directly from the trees or indirectly helped himself to the contents

I Iof A's basket. If B has so helped himself, he certainly ought to

say so like a man, but if were A, would not much care whether

he did or not.

         has been horribly disgusted about  but am not sure
if

             it
                                              1
                                                             ;
                                                                             it,
                                                     I
                                                                                                                  a
the discipline may not have opened his eyes to new and useful

aspects of nature.

      The summer    of 865 saw     the inception of an educational
                    International
experiment -- an                    Education Society -- to which

Huxley gladly gave his support as a step in the right direc

tion. He had long been       convinced     of the    inadequacy                                                    of
existing forms of education
                             -- survivals   from   the needs of
bygone age -- to prepare for the new forms into which in

tellectual life was passing. That educators should be con

tent to bring up the young generation in the modes of

thought which satisfied their forefathers three centuries ago,

as no change had passed over the world since then, filled

him with mingled amazement and horror.

      The outcome of the scheme was the International

College, at Spring Grove, Isleworth, under the headmastership
of Dr. Leonhard Schmitz one of the chief members of the

committee being Dr. (afterwards Sir) William Smith, while at
the head of the Society was Richard Cobden, under whose

presidency had been registered some time before. John
Stuart Mill, however, refused to join, considering that this was
not the most needed reform in education, and that he could

not support a school in which the ordinary theology was

taught.

270                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                           CHAP. XIX

      An article in the Reader for June 17, 1865, sketches the
plan. The design was to give a liberal education to boys
whether intended for a profession or for commerce. The
education for both was the same up to a certain point,
corresponding to that given in our higher schools, together
with foreign languages and the elements of physical and
social science, after which the courses bifurcated.* Special
stress was laid on modern languages, both for themselves

and as a preparation and help for classical teaching. Accord
ingly, the International College was one of three parallel
institutions in England, France, and Germany, where a boy
could in turn acquire a sound knowledge of all three
languages while continuing the same course of education.
The Franco-Prussian war of 1870, however, proved fatal to

the scheme.

     Some letters to his friend Dr. W. K. Parker,f show the

good-fellowship which existed between them, as well as the
interest he took in the style and success of Parker's work.
Parker was hard at work on Birds, a subject in which his

friend and leader also was deeply interested, and was

indeed preparing an important book upon it.

       Referring to his candidature for the Royal Society, he

writes on February 21, 1865: "With reference to your
candidature, I am ready to bring your name forward when

ever you like, and to back you with ' all my might, power,
amity, and authority,' as Essex did Bacon (you need not

serve me as Bacon did Essex afterwards), but my impres
sion has been that you did not wish to come forward this

year."

      And on November 2, 1866, congratulating him on his

" well-earned honour " of the F.R.S. -- " Go on and prosper.

These are not the things wise men work for ; but it is not
the less proper of a wise man to take them when they come

unsought."

    1 For a fuller account of the scientific education see p. 308.
    s A man of whom                                                   Jeffery Parker's Life of W.
K.  Parker, 1893), that  he    wrote    (preface         to   Prof.  artist struggled with that of a
                                him   the genius               an
                         "in                              of

philosopher,    and   no"tmuinnfurteequeancctluyracthye   latter got the  worst of the contest."  He
speaks too    of his                                     in observation   and boundless memory    for

details and imagination which absolutely rioted in the scenting out of subtle and

often far-fetched analogies."

1865 THE INTERNATIONAL COLLEGE                                                                     271

                                                          26 Abbey Place, Dec. 3, 1865.

    My dear Parker --I have been so terribly pressed by my
Iwork that have only just been able to finish the reading of your

paper.

     Very few pieces of work which have fallen in my way come near
your account of the Struthious skull in point of clearness and com
pleteness. It is a most admirable essay, and will make an epoch in

Ithis kind of inquiry.
         want you, however, to remodel the introduction, and to make
some unessential but convenient difference in the arrangement of

some of the figures.
      Secondly, full as the appendix is of most valuable and interest

Iing matter, advise you for the present to keep it back.

     My reason is that you have done justice neither to yourself nor
to your topics, and that if the appendix is printed as it stands, your

labour will be in great measure lost.
     You start subjects enough for half a dozen papers, and partly

from the compression thus resulting, and partly from the absence of

illustrations, I do not believe there are half a dozen men in Europe

iws hroelewviallntbeenaobuleghto--feovlleorwy  you.  of  Furthermore,      though the appendix
                                               line                       who have dived deep,
                                                         it--to those
Ias you and I have -- to any one else it has all the aspects of a string
of desultory discussions.                      As your father confessor, forbid the pub

Ilication of the appendix. After having had all this trouble with you

  am not going to have you waste your powers for want of a little

Imethod, so tell you.
    What you are to do is this. You are to rewrite the introduction

and to say that             the present paper is            the first of a          sebreies"  on    the
structure of the           vertebrate skull ; that        the second will             Fowl     On    the
development of             the osseous cranium            of the Common                         "
                                                                                                   [and
    I              you are good), will permit you         to   intthriordducweillthebeep"isOodne    on
here                       if I                           the                                      the
        (if
cartilage and membrane (illegible)] it a                 ;
chief modifications of the cranium observed in the Sauropsida.";
      The fourth, "On the mammalian skull."                              a
      The fifth, " On the skull of the Ichthyopsida."

      will give you two years from this time to execute these five

memoirs and then you have stood good-temperedly the amount

of badgering and bullying you will get from me whenever you come

dutifully to report progress,                  you shall  be   left       to your   own devices in
the third year to publish                       paper on       The         general    structure and
                                                            "

theory of the vertebrate skull."

      You have brilliant field before you, and start such that no
                     it a
one likely to catch you. Sit deliberately down over against theis

city, conquer and make your own, and don't be wasting powder
in knocking down odd bastions with random shells.

272  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                    CHAP. XIX

    II write jestingly, but really am very much in earnest. Come
and have a talk on the matter as soon as you can, for I should send

in my report. You will find me in Jermyn Street, Tuesday,

Wednesday, or Thursday mornings, Thursday afternoon, but not

Twuilel scdoamye.o--r WEveedrneysoduarsy  afternoon. Send     a  line to say when  you
                                                 faithfully,        T. H. Huxley.

                  CHAPTER XX

                          1866

BESIDES his Fullerian lectures on Ethnology at the Royal

Institution this year, Huxley published in February 1 866 a
paper in the Natural History Review, on the " Prehistoric

Remains of Caithness," based upon a quantity of remains

found the previous autumn at Keiss. This, and the article
on the " Neanderthal Skull " in the Natural History Review

for 1 864, attracted some notice among foreign anthropo

logists.     Dr.  H. Welcker writes about    them ; Dr. A. Ecker
wants     the "   Prehistoric Remains " for
                                             his new Archiv fur
Anthropologie ; the Societe d'Anthropologie de Paris elects

him a Foreign Associate.

    He was asked by Dr. Fayrer to assist in a great scheme he

had proposed to the Asiatic Society,* to gather men of every

tribe from India, the Malayan Peninsula, Persia, Arabia, the

Indian Archipelago, etc., for anthropological purposes. It

was well received by the Council of the Society and by the

Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal ; anything Huxley could say

in its favour would be of great weight. Would he come out

as  Dr. Fayrer's guest ?                                  letter :--
     Unable to go to Calcutta, he sent
                                        the following

                          Jermyn Street, London, June 14, 1866.

    My dear Fayrer -- I lose no time in replying to your second

letter, and my first business is to apologise for not having answered

the first, but it reached me in the thick of my lectures, and like a
Igreat many other things which ought to have been done
                                                          put off

    VOL. I  1 Comp. Chap. XXII. ad init. and Appendix I.

                                                          T

*74         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, xx

replying to a more convenient season. I have been                        terribly hard
worked this year, and thought I was going to break                       down a few
Iweeks ago but luckily I have pulled through.
                                                                         of my being
          heartily wish that there were the smallest chance

able to accept your kind invitation and take part in your great

scheme at Calcutta. But it is impossible for me to leave England

for more than six weeks or two months, and that only in the

Iautumn, a time of year when imagine Calcutta is not likely to be

the scene of anything but cholera patients.

    IAs to your plan itself, think it a most grand and useful one if

Iit can be properly carried out. But you do things on so grand a
scale in India that     suppose all the practical difficulties which

suggest themselves to me may be overcome.

     It strikes me that it will not do to be content with a single re
presentative of each tribe. At least four or five will be needed

to eliminate the chances of accident, and even then much will

depend upon the discretion and judgment of the local agent who
makes the suggestion. This difficulty, however, applies chiefly if
                                   To the philologer the oppor
not solely to physical ethnology.

tunities for comparing dialects and checking pronunciation will

be splendid, however [few] the individual speakers of each dialect
may be.     The most    dmifafiscsualctrintgasktheof"  all will be
assembled                                              specimens "  to   prevent the
           Savans from                                               at  the end of

the exhibition for the sake of their skulls and pelves !

    I am really afraid that my own virtue might yield if so tempted !
    Jesting apart, I heartily wish your plans success, and if there are
any more definite ways in which I can help, let me know, and I will
do my best. You will want, I should think, a physical and a philo

logical committee to organise schemes : (i) for systematic measuring,

weighing, and portraiture, with observation and recording of all

physical characters ; and (2) for uniform registering of sounds by
Roman letters and collection of vocabularies and grammatical forms

Iupon an uniform system.

         should advise you to look into the Museum of the Socie'te'

d'Anthropologie of Paris, and to put yourself in communication with

M. Paul Broca, one of its most active members, who has lately been

organising a scheme of general anthropological instructions. But

                        do with
                        Society "
Ifdon't                                                                          of
                                                                                 of
the "
     have anything to              the quacks          who are at the head
     Anthropological               over here.                  they catch scent

what you are about they will certainly want to hook on to you.
     Once more I wish I had the chance of being able to visit your
Icongress.
            have been lecturing on Ethnology this year,* and shall
Ibe again this year, and would give a good deal to be able to look

at the complex facts of Indian Ethnology with my own eyes.

            1 As Fullerian Professor at the Royal Institution.

1866 IS MADE LL.D. AT EDINBURGH                                                                        275

      But as  hthoelidsaaygse--obasewrvifeed,an"dwsheavte'sn  imchpilodsrseinbl--e caannd't  be," and  what
with short                                                                                   miles of  work

in arrear, India is an impossibility for me.
    IYou say
                                                                       you are well and
hearty, and                                                            Ever yours faith
              nothing   abbeoluotngiynogusrselff,lousroishingtr.u--st
              all your                                        T. H. Huxley.

fully,

        In paleontology he published this                     Cyoellaierryp,apKeirlskenonnyth; e"
" Vertebrate Remains                                          on some " Dinosaurs
on a new " Telerpeton   from  the Jarrow
                        from  Elgin," and

from South Africa." The latter, and many more afterwards,

were sent over by a young man named Alfred Brown, who

had a curious history. A Quaker gentleman came across

him when employed in cleaning tools in Cirencester College,

found that he was a good Greek and Latin scholar, and got

him a tutorship in a clergyman's family at the Cape. He

afterwards entered the postal service, and being inspired with

a vivid interest in geology, spent all the leave he could

obtain from his office on the Orange River in getting fossils

from the Stormberg Rocks. These, as often as he could

afford to send such weighty packages, he sent to Sir R.

Murchison, to whom he had received a letter of introduction

from his official superior. Sir Roderick, writing to Huxley,
says " that he was proud of his new recruit," to whom he

sent not only welcome words of encouragement, but the no
less welcome news that the brother of his " discoverer," hear

ing of the facts from Professor Woodward, offered to defray

his expenses so that he could collect regularly.

        On April 2 Huxley was in Edinburgh to receive the

first academic distinction conferred upon him in Britain.

He received the honorary degree of the University in com
pany with Tyndall and Carlyle. It was part of the fitness of

things that he should be associated in this honour with his

close friend Tyndall ; but though he frequently acknow

ledged his debt to Carlyle as the teacher who in his youth

had inspired him with his undying hatred of shams and hum

bugs of every kind, and whom he had gratefully come to

know in after days, Carlyle did not forgive the publication of

Man's Place in Nature. Years after, near the end of his

life, my father saw him walking slowly and alone down the

opposite side of the street, and touched by his solitary

276             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, xx

appearance, crossed over and spoke to him. The old man
looked at him, and merely remarking, " You're Huxley, aren't
you ? the man that says we are all descended from monkeys,"

went on his way.

     On July 6 he writes to tell Darwin that he has lodged

a memorial of his about the fossils at the Gallegos river,

which was to be visited by the Nassau1 exploring ship,
with the hydrographer direct, instead of sending it in to the
Lords of the Admiralty, who would only have sent it on to
the hydrographer. This letter he heads " Country orders

executed with accuracy and despatch."

      The following letter to Charles Kingsley explains

itself --

                                     Jermyn Street, April 12, 1866.

     My dear Kingsley --I shall certainly do myself the pleasure of
listening to you when you preach at the Royal Institution. I
wonder if you are going to take the line of showing up the super
Istitions of men of science. Their name is legion, and the exploit
would be a telling one.  would do it myself only I think I am

Ialready sufficiently isolated and unpopular.      am sure you will

      However, whatever you are going to do
speak honestly and well, and I shall come and be assistant bottle-

holder.
     I Iam glad you like the working men's lectures.
                                                      suspect they
Iare about the best things of that line that I have done, and only
Iwish had had the sense to anticipate the run they have had here
Iand abroad, and would have revised them properly.

     As they stand they are terribly in the rough, from a literary

point of view.
     No doubt crib-biting, nurse-biting and original sin in general are

all strictly reducible from Darwinian principles ; but don't by mis

adventure run against any academical facts.

     Some whales have all the cerebral vertebrae free now, and every

one of them has the full number, seven, whether they are free or

fixed. No doubt whales had hind legs once upon a time. If

when you come up to town you go to the College of Surgeons, my
friend Flower the Conservator (a good man whom you should know),
will show you the whalebone whale's thigh bones in the grand
skeleton they have recently set up. The legs, to be sure, and the

feet are gone,  the battle of life   h--aviEnvger  left private Cetacea  in  the
condition of a   Chelsea pensioner.                 yours faithfully,
                                                   T. H. Huxley.

                         1 Chap. XXII.

1866 SCIENCE IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS

     This year the British Association met at Nottingham,
and Huxley was president of Section D. In this capacity

he invited Professor Haeckel to attend the meeting, but the
impending war with Austria prevented any Prussian from

leaving his country at the time, though Haeckel managed to

come over later.

Huxley did not deliver a regular opening address to the

section on the Thursday, but on the Friday made a speech,

which was followed by a discussion upon biology and its

several branches, especially morphology and its relation to

physiology ("the facts concerning form are questions of
force, every form is force visible.") He lamented that the
subdivisions of the section had to meet separately as a
result of specialisation, the reason for which he found

in the want of proper scientific education in schools.
And this was the fault of the universities, for just as
in the story, " Stick won't beat dog, dog won't bite pig,

isand so the old woman can't get home," science would
not be taught in the schools until it  recognised by

the universities.

     This prepared the way for Dean Farrar's paper on
science teaching in the public schools. His experience as a

master at Harrow made him strongly oppose the existing
plan of teaching all boys classical composition whether they
were suited for it or no. He wished to exchange a great
deal of Latin verse-making for elementary science.

     This paper was doubly interesting to Huxley, as coming

from a classical master in a public school, and he remarked,
" He felt sure that at the present time, the important question

for England was not the duration of her coal, but the due
comprehension of the truths of science, and the labours of

her scientific men."

     On the practical side, however, Mr. J. Payne said the

great difficulty was the want of teachers ; and suggested
that if men of science were really in earnest they would

condescend to teach in the schools.

     It was to a certain extent in answer to this appeal that

Huxley gave his lectures on Physiography in 1869 (see
p. 308), and instituted the course of training for science

teachers in 1 87 1.

278             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY            CHAP. XX

     He concluded his work at Nottingham by a lecture to

working men.

      The following is in reply to             Minr.anSpaergnucmerenwt--ho  had
accused himself of losing his temper

                                26 Abbey Place, Sunday, Nov. 8, 1868.

     My dear Spencer -- Your conscience has been treating you

with the most extreme and unjust severity.
     I recollect you looked rather savage at one point in our discus
sion, but I do      assure you that you committed no overt act of
I Iferocity ; and if you had, think should have fully deserved it

for joining in the ferocious onslaught we all made upon you.

    IWhat your sins may be in this line to other folk don't know,
I I I Ibut so far as am concerned assure you have often said that

Iknow no one who takes aggravated  opposition better than yourself,
                                   been ashamed of the extent to
and that have not a few times

Iwhich have tried your patience.

atoccu"Smdoulaytoeudnsememyetrhieta,yteesyno"vueyrosuhamvcoeai,n--wdahonadtsoitfhaeynoduBhusadhvdoehuilasdtbseavlacenarcllefeeallefsittn.occlikneodf

     Seriously, my old friend, you must not think it necessary to

apologise  to me    about any   such matters,  but  beliTe.veH.meHu(dxley. ned
or und              Ever yours   faithfully,
             d) --

                                   26 Abbey Place, Nov. 11, 1866.

     My dear Darw1n -- I thank you for the new edition of the

Origin, and congratulate you on having done with it for a while,
Iso as to be able to go on to that book of a portion of which had
Ia glimpse years ago.
                       hear good accounts of your health, indeed

the last was that you were so rampageous you meant to come to

London and have a spree among its dissipations. May that be true.

    I am in the thick of my work, and have only had time to glance

at your Historical Sketch.

     What an unmerciful basting you give "our mutual friend."

I did not know he had put forward any claim ! and even now that
I Iread it black and white, can hardly believe it.

    I am glad to hear from Spencer that you are on the right (that

is my) side in the Jamaica business. But it is wonderful how
people who commonly act together are divided about it.

     My wife joins with me in kindest wishes to Mrs. Darwin and
yourself--Ever yours faithfully,                    T. H. Huxley.

     You will receive an elementary physiology book, not for your

reading but for Miss Darwin's.     Were you not charmed with

Haeckel ?

1866 THE JAMAICA COMMITTEE                  279

      The " Jamaica business " here alluded to was Governor
Eyre's suppression of a negro rising, in the course of which

he had executed, under martial law, a coloured leader and

member of the Assembly, named Gordon. The question of
his justification in so doing stirred England profoundly. It
became the touchstone of ultimate political convictions.

Men who had little concern for ordinary politics, came for

ward to defend a great constitutional principle which they

conceived to be endangered. A committee was formed to

prosecute Governor Eyre on a charge of murder, in order to
vindicate the right of a prisoner to trial by due process of

law. Thereupon a counter-committee was organised for the
defence of the man who, like Cromwell, judged that the

people preferred their real security to forms, and had presum
ably saved the white population of Jamaica by striking
promptly at the focus of rebellion.

     The Pall Mall Gazette of October 29, 1866, made a

would-be smart allusion to the part taken in the affair by
Huxley, which evoked, in reply, a calm statement of his

reasons for joining the prosecuting committee :--

     It is amusing (says the Pall Mall) to see how the rival com

mittees, the one for the prosecution and the other for the defence
of Mr. Eyre, parade the names of distinguished persons who are
enrolled as subscribers on either side. Mill is set against Carlyle,
and to counterbalance the adhesion of the Laureate to the Defence

Fund, the Star hastens to announce that Sir Charles Lyell and
Professor Huxley have given their support to the Jamaica Committee.
Everything, of course, depends on the ground on which the sub
scriptions are given. One can readily conceive that Mr. Tennyson

has been chiefly moved by a generous indignation at the vindictive

behaviour of the Jamaica Committee. It would be curious also to

know how far Sir Charles Lyell's and Mr. Huxley's peculiar views
on the development of species have influenced them in bestowing

on the negro that sympathetic recognition which they are willing to

extend even to the ape as "a man and a brother."

    The reply appeared in the Pall Mall of October

31

    IS1r -- learn from yesterday evening's  Pall Mall Gazette that

you are curious to know whether certain     "peculiar views on the
                                            to hold in the excellent
development of species," which I am said

:8o                            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                          CHAP. XX

company of Sir Charles Lyell, have led me to become a member of

the Jamaica Committee.
     IPermit me without delay to satisfy a curiosity which does me
honour.    have been induced to join that committee neither by

my "peculiar views                 on the development   onfegsrpoe--ciesst,"ill  nor by any
particular love for,              or admiration of the                           less by any

Imiserable desire to wreak vengeance for recent error upon a man

whose early career have often admired ; but because the course

which the committee proposes to take appears to me to be the only

one by which a question of the profoundest practical importance

can be answered. That question          Does the killing man in the
                                        is,
                                            is
                                                 a
                                                            it,

                                                                         a

                                                                                                                   ?
way Mr. Gordon was killed constitute murder in the eye of the law,

or does not
I
     You perceive that this question    wholly                          indneapmeenlyde--ntwaosf                    two
  I?others which are persistently confusedwith                                                                      Mr.

         a itGordon Jamaica Hampden or was he psalm-singing fire-brand
and was Mr. Eyre actuated by the highest and noblest motives, or
         Iwas he under the influence of panic-stricken rashness or worse im
                            ?
pulses

        do not presume to speak with authority on legal question
                                  if

                                                                                a
                                                                                              is

                                                                                                                                       ;
but, unless am misinformed, English law does not permit good

persons, as such, to strangle bad persons, as such. On the con
trary, understand that, the most virtuous of Britons, let his place

and authority be what they may, seize and hang up the greatest

scoundrel in Her Majesty's dominions simply because he an evil

and troublesome person, an English court of justice will certainly
find that virtuous person guilty of murder. Nor will the verdict be

affected by any evidence that the defendant acted from the best of

motives, and, on the whole, did the State service.
                                        is
                                                   a
     Now,;         may be that Mr. Eyre was actuated by the best of

motives     it it  may be that Jamaica  all the better for being rid of

Mr. Gordon but nevertheless the Royal Commissioners, who were
           ;

appointed to       inquire into   Mr.  Gordon's case, among             other matters,
have declared
                   that --
                               :

     The evidence, oral and documentary, appears to us to be wholly

insufficient to establish the charge upon which the prisoner took

his trial. (Report, p. 37.)
      And again that they

     Cannot see in the evidence which has been adduced, any suffi

cient proof, either of his (Mr. Gordon's) complicity in the outbreak
at Morant Bay, or of his having been party to any general con
         a

                            it
                                                               ;a
                                                                    in
spiracy against the Government. (Report, p. 38.)
      Unless the Royal Commissioners have greatly erred, therefore,
the killing of Mr. Gordon can only be defended on the ground that

he was bad and troublesome man                                          short, that although he

might not be guilty, served him right.

          1866 THE JAMAICA COMMITTEE                                                                                                                          281

          Ikilling  entertain  --stohe  deeply-rooted an objection   to this  method                                                                          of
                      people              act itself appears to me  to be so   frightful
                                                                                                                                                               a
          Iprecedent, that desire to see it stigmatised by the highest authority
          Ias a crime. And have joined the committee which proposes to
          indict Mr. Eyre, in the hope that I may hear a court of justice de

          clare that the only defence which can be set up           the Royal Com
                                        is
                                                                                                                                                              Mr.
                                                                              (if                                                                             --

                                                                                       I
          rmGeoimsrsadioionnn,erSswira, sayreothuerrigoghbrete)adtieesnt tnooseffdrevenafcenent,cek, noawnndThttoohmattahsethelHaw.k--ilHlinmugxurldeoeyrf..

              The ATHeNi^uM Club, Oct. 30, 1866.

               Two letters to friends who had taken the opposite side

          in this burning question show how resolutely he set himself
          against permitting a difference on matters of principle to

          affect personal relations with his warmest opponents.

                                                  Jermyn Street, Nov. 1866.
                                                  a
                                                                                        8,
              My dear Kingsley --The letter of which you have heard,

          containing my reasons for becoming      member of the Jamaica
          Committee was addressed to the Pall Mall Gazette in reply to some

          editorial speculations as to my reasons for so doing.

if            forget the date of the number in which my letter appeared,

  I it I Ibut will find out and send you copy of the paper.
                               it
                                                                                            know
                                           a if

                                                             is
                                                                 a

                                                                         a
                                                                                is

                                                                I
                                                                       I
                                                                               ;I

                                                                                                                            is
              Mr. Eyre's personality in this matter nothing to me
                                                  friend of yours, am very sorry
          nothing about him, and, he

          to be obliged to join in movement which must be excessively un

          pleasant to him.
                Furthermore, when the verdict of the jury which will try him

          once given, all hostility towards him on my part will cease. So far
          from wishing to see him vindictively punished, would much rather,

                 were practicable, indict his official hat and his coat than him

self.

                    desire to see Mr. Eyre indicted and verdict of guilty in
                               is a

                                      aI
                                                 ;I

                                                                                    a
                                                                                                        aa

                                                                                                                                          a
          criminal court obtained, because have, from its commencement,

          carefully watched the Gordon case and because new study of all

          the evidence which has now been collected has confirmed my first

conviction that Gordon's execution was as bad specimen as we

          have had since Jeffries' time of political murder.
              Don't suppose     that have any     ptyapreticouflasrmaadlml iproaltiitoicnalfoargGitaotrodro--n.
          He  belongs to       sufficiently poor

          and very likely was great nuisance to the Governor and other

          respectable persons.

              But that         no reason why he should be condemned, by an

28a                           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 CHAP. XX

absurd tribunal and with a brutal mockery of the forms of justice,

for offences with which impartial judges, after a full investigation,

declare there is no evidence to show that he was connected.

      Ex-Governor Eyre          seized         the man,    put him in the hands of the
preposterous subalterns,          who         pretended
                                                           to try him -- saw the evidence
and approved of the sentence. He is as much responsible for
Gordon's death as if he had shot him through the head with his
Iown hand.    daresay he did all this with the best of motives, and in
a heroic vein. But if English law will not declare that heroes have

no more right to kill people in this fashion than other folk, I shall

take an early opportunity of migrating to Texas or some other

quiet place where there is less hero-worship and more respect for
justice, which is to my mind of much more importance than hero-

worship.
     In point of fact, men take sides on this question, not so much

by looking at the mere facts of the case, but rather as their deepest
political convictions lead them. And the great use of the prosecu

tion, and one of my reasons for joining                                                that will help
                                                           it,
                                                                is
                                                                           it
                                                                                      is

                                                                                        if a
great many people to find out what their profoundest political

beliefs are.

     The hero-worshippers who believe that the world                                   to be

governed by its great men, who are to lead the little ones, justly

they can but                    not, unjustly drive or kick them the right way,
     a;

             if

                          I
will sympathise with Mr. Eyre.
     The other sect (to which belong) who look upon hero-worship

as no better than any other idolatry, and upon the attitude of mind
of the hero-worshipper as essentially immoral who think
                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                               it
                                                                                                                       ; is
better for man to go wrong in freedom than to go right in chains

who look upon the observance of inflexible justice as between man

and man as of far greater importance than even the preservation of
social order, will believe that Mr. Eyre has committed one of the
greatest crimes of which person in authority can be guilty, and
                                a
                                               a
will strain every nerve to obtain declaration that their belief in
                                                                                       is
accordance with the law of England.
                                                                                         I
     People who differ on fundamentals are not likely to convert one

another. To you, as to my dear friend Tyndall, with whom

almost always act, but who in this matter                                              as much opposed to
                              I

                                                                         a
                                                                                   is
me as you are, can only say, let us be strong enough and wise

oeuntoubgihttertnoesfsig. h--t  the question     out as    matter                    of principle and with
                                Ever yours    faithfully,
                                                                                      T. H. Huxley.

                                                                                       November 9, 1866.

     My dear Tyndall -- Many thanks for the kind note                                  which
                                                                                          had
accompanied your letter to the Jamaica Committee.
      When presented myself at Rogers' dinner last night
     I
                                                                  I

1866 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY                                                    283

not heard of the latter, and Gassiot began poking fun at me, and

declaring that your absence was due to a quarrel between us on this

Iunhappy subject.
      replied to the jest earnestly enough, that I hoped and believed

our old friendship was strong enough to stand any strain that might

                   much as  grieved that we should be ranged in
be put on  it,              I

                I                   it
opposite camps in this or any other cause.  it
                                                       is
That you and have fundamentally different political principles

must, think, have become obvious to both of us during the proI
gress of the American War. The fact made still more plain by

your printed letter, the tone and spirit of which greatly admired
                                                           I
                                                              I
without being able to recognise in any important fact or argument

which had not passed through my mind before                    joined the Jamaica
Committee.

Thus there nothing for but for us to agree to differ, eachis

supporting his own side to the best of his ability, and respecting his

friend's freedom as he would his own, and doing his best to remove
                                           at bottom one of the most
all petty bitterness from that which  is

important constitutional battles in which Englishmen have for many

Ifyears been engaged.

          you and are strong enough and wise enough, we shall be
I
               I

                                        I
able to do this, and yet preserve that love for one another which

value as one of the good things of my life.                        my best. -- Ever
If not, we shall come to grief.
                                           mean            to  do
                                                               T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

      Huxley was always of opinion that to write gooda
                                                                        a
elementary text-book required most extensive and intimate
1knowledge of the subject under discussion. Certainly the

Lessons on Elementary Physiology which appeared at the endit
of 866 were the outcome of such knowledge, and met with
                                         a
a wonderful and lasting success as text-book. A graceful
                                                                   '
compliment was passed upon by Sir William Lawrence,
when, in thanking the author for the gift of the book, he1
wrote (January 24, 867), " in your modest book indocti
discant, ament meminisse periti "!
                                   '
      This was before the days of American copyright, and
                                                                              it
English books were usually regarded as fair prey by the
mass of American publishers. Among the exceptions to
this practical rule were the firm of Appletons, who made a
point of honour to treat foreign authors as though they were

legally entitled to some equitable rights. On their behalf

an arrangement was made for an authorised American

284  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, xjc

edition of the Physiology by Dr. Youmans, whose acquaint
ance thus made my father did not allow to drop.

     It is worth noting that by the year 1898 this little

book had passed through four editions, and been reprinted

thirty-one times.

                     CHAPTER XXI

                                             1867

It has already been noted that Huxley's ethnological work

continued this year with a second series of lectures at the
Royal Institution, while he enlarged his paper on " Two
widely contrasted forms of Human Crania," and published it
in the Journal of Anatomy. One paleontological memoir of
his appeared this year on Acanthopholis, a fossil from the
chalk marl, an additional piece of work for which he excuses

himself to Sir C. Lyell (January 4, 1 867) :--

   IThe new reptile advertised in Geol. Mag. has turned up in the

way of business, and could not help giving a notice of or
                                                     I
should not have undertaken anything fresh just now.                   it,
                                                                      I
   The Spitzbergen things are very different, and have taken

sundry looks at them and put them by again to let my thoughts

ripen.

   They are Ichthyosaurian, and am not sure they do not belong
                  I
to two species. But        it
                                is
                                  I
                         an awful business to compare all the

Ichthyosaurians.     think that one form  is  new. Please to tell

Nordenskiold this much.

      However, his chief interest was in the anatomy of birds,a

at which he had been working for some time, and especiallya
the development of certain of the cranial bones as basis of
classification. On April 11, expanding one of his Hunterian

Lectures, he read a paper on this subject at the Zoological

Society, afterwards published in their Proceedings for 1867.
      As he had found the works of Professor Cornay of help

in the preparation of this paper, he was careful to send him
   copy with an acknowledgment of his indebtedness, eliciting

286               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                               chap, xxi

the reply, " dest si beau de trouver chez Phomme la science

unie a la justice."
      He followed this up with another paper on " The Classi

fication and Distribution of the Alectoromorphae and Hetero-

morphae" in 1868, and        to the   wroefrekrsu:p--on  this the        following
letter to his ally, W. K.    Parker,

                             Royal Geolog. Survey of Gt. Britain,
                                   Jermyn Street, July 17, 1867.

     My dear Parker -- Nothing short of the direct temptation of

the evil one could lead you to entertain so monstrous a doctrine, as

that you propound about Cariamidae.

    I recommend fasting for three days and the application of a

scourge thrice in the twenty-four hours ! Do this, and about the
fourth day you will perceive that the cranial differences alone are

as  great as  those between Cathartes and Serpentarius.                  :--
              want to hear something new and true it is
     If you                                                       this

     1. That Memora is more unlike all the other Passerines                        (i.e.

Coracomorphae) than they are unlike one another, and that it will

have to stand in a group by itself.    are -- less       so,  in  fact,  if   you  go

     It is as much like a wren as you

on maintaining that preposterous fiction about Serpentarius.

     2. Wood -peckers are more like crows than they are like

\cuckoos.                 Aegithognathae                 Gecinomorphae
        Cypselomorphae    Coracomorphae
                           Desmognathae

                             Coccygomorphae.

     3. Sundevell is the sharpest fellow who has written on the
classification of birds.

     4. Nitzsch and W. K. Parker 1 are the sharpest fellows who have

written on their osteology.
                  I
      5. Though   I  do not see  how it follows naturally on the above,
still, where can     see a good  skeleton of Glareola ?

     None in college, B.M.S.     badly prepared. -- Ever yours faithfully,
                                                         T. H. Huxley.

                     1 Except in the case of Serpentarius.

     An incident which diversified one                      of the       Gilchrist
lectures to working men is thus recorded                    by the       Times of

January 23, 1867 :--

1867 A GOOD EXAMPLE                     287

A GOOD EXAMPLE. Last night, at the termination of a

lecture on ethnology, delivered by Professor Huxley to an audience

which filled the theatre of the London Mechanics' Institute in South

ampton Buildings, Chancery Lane, the lecturer said that he had
received a letter as he entered the building which he would not

take the responsibility of declining to read, although it had no refer
ence to the subject under consideration. He then read the letter,

which was simply signed " A Regular Attendant at Your Lectures,"

and which in a few words drew attention to the appalling distress

existing among the population out of work at the East End, and
suggested that all those present at the lecture that night should be
allowed the opportunity of contributing 1d. or 2d. each towards a

fund for their relief, and that the professor should become the

treasurer for the evening.  This suggestion was received by the
audience with marks of approval. The professor said he would not

put pressure on anyone ; he would simply place his own subscrip
tion in one of the skulls on the table. This he did, and all the

audience coming on the platform, threw in money in copper and
silver until the novel cash box was filled with coin which amounted

to a large sum. A gentleman present expressed a hope that the

example set by that audience might be followed with good results
wherever large bodies assembled either for educational or recreative

purposes.

At the end of April this year my father spent a week in

Brittany with Dr. Hooker and Sir J. Lubbock, rambling
about the neighbourhood of Rennes and Vannes, and com

bining the examination of prehistoric remains with the

refreshment of holiday making.          The x Club was doing
     Few letters of this period exist.

its work. Most of those to whom he would naturally

have written he met constantly. Two letters to Professor

Haeckel give pieces of his experience. One suggests the

limits of aggressive polemics, as to which I remember his once

saying that he himself had only twice been the aggressor in

controversy, without waiting to be personally attacked ; once

where he found his opponent was engaged in a flanking

movement ; the other when a man of great public reputation

had come forward to champion an untenable position of the

older orthodoxy, and a blow dealt to his pretensions to

historical and scientific accuracy would not only bring the

question home to many who neglected it in an impersonal

form, but would also react upon the value of the historical

88  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, xxi

arguments with which he sought to stir public opinion in
other spheres. The other letter touches on the influence,
at once calming and invigorating, as he had known it to the
full for the last twelve years, which a wife can bring in the
midst of outward struggles to the inner life of the home.

    Jermyn Street, London, May 20, 1867.

    My dear Haeckel--Your letter, though dated the 1 2 th, has but
just reached me. I mention this lest you should think me remiss, my

Isin in not writing to you already being sufficiently great. But your

book did not reach me until November, and have been hard at

Iwork lecturing, with scarcely an intermission ever since.

      Now need hardly say that the Morphologie is not exactly a
novel to be taken up and read in the intervals of business. On the

contrary, though profoundly interesting, it is an uncommonly hard

book, and one wants to read every sentence of it over.
    I went through it within a fortnight of its coming into my hands,
Iso as to get at your general drift and purpose, but up to this time I
have not been able to read it as  feel I ought to read it before

venturing upon criticism. You cannot imagine how my time is

frittered away in these accursed lectures and examinations.

      There can be but one opinion, however, as to the knowledge
and intellectual grasp displayed in the book ; and, to me, the

attempt to systematise biology as a whole is especially interesting

and valuable.

    II shall go over this part of your work with great care by and

by, but am afraid you must expect that the number of biologists

who will do so, will remain exceedingly small. Our comrades are
not strong in logic and philosophy.

    With respect to the polemic excursus, of course, I chuckle over
Ithem most sympathetically, and then say how naughty they are !

have done too much of the same sort of thing not to sympathise

entirely with you ; and I am much inclined to think that it is a

good thing for a man, once at any rate in his life, to perform a
public war-dance against all sorts of humbug and imposture.

      But having satisfied one's love of freedom in this way, perhaps
the sooner the war-paint is off the better. It has no virtue except
as a sign of one's own frame of mind and determination, and when

that is once known, is little better than a distraction.

    I think there are a few patches of this kind, my dear friend,

which may as well come out in the next edition, e.g. that wonder

ful note about the relation of God to gas, the gravity of which

greatly tickled my fancy.

    I pictured to myself the effect which a translation of this would

have upon the minds of my respectable countrymen !

1867 LE TTERS TO HA ECKEL                                                            289

      Apropos of translation. Darwin wrote to me on that subject,

and with his usual generosity, would have made a considerable con

Itribution towards the expense if we could have seen our way to the

publication of a translation. But do not think it would be well

to translate the book in fragments, and, as a whole, it would be a

very costly undertaking, with very little chance of finding readers.

    I do not believe that in the British Islands there are fifty people

who are competent to read the book, and of the fifty, five and

twenty have read it or will read it in German.          which will bring
                                                        it,
    What I desire to do is to write a review of
                                                             I
      into some notice on this side of the water, and this hope to do
itbefore long. If do not
                                will be, you well know, from no want
   II             I          it
          I
                               I
of inclination, but simply from lack of time.
      In any case, as soon as
                                  have been able to study the book

carefully, you shall have my honest opinion about all points.

      am glad your journey has yielded so good scientific harvest,
                                                        a

                                                              It

                                                                      is
and especially that you found my Oceanic Hydrozoa of some use.

But am shocked to find you had no copy of the book of your

own, and shall take care that one sent to you.                            my first
                           I
                                         I

                                                    is
-born work, done when was very raw and inexperienced, and had

neither friends nor help. Perhaps am all the fonder of the child

on that ground.

     A lively memory of you remains in my house, and wife and

children will be very glad to hear that have news of you when
                                  I                                                  I

go home to dinner.         recollection, and believe    me-- Ever         yours
      Keep us in kindly                                 T. H. Huxley.

very faithfully,

      My dear Haeckel-- My wife and                                   July 16, 1867.
                                aI                      send you our most hearty
                                          I
congratulations and good wishes. Give your betrothed                    I it         good

account of us, for we hope in the future to entertain as warm                U is a  is, a

friendship for her as for you.    was very glad to have the news, for

a it  seemed to me very sad that man of your warm affections should

    be surrounded only by hopeless regrets. Such surroundings inflict

      sort of partial paralysis upon one's whole nature, result which
                                                        !
to me, far more serious and regrettable than the mere suffering one
                                                         I
undergoes.        a                                            it, I a

is   The one thing for men, who like you and stand pretty much
alone, and have good deal of fighting to do in the external world,

   to have light and warmth and confidence within the four walls of

home. May all these good things await you                               am sure my
      Many thanks for your kind invitation to Jena.                   but very

wife would be as much pleased as to accept
difficult for her to leave her children.
                                  a

                                       I
      We will keep before us as pleasant possibility, but suspect
          I
      VOL.             it

290  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                       chap, xxi

you and Madame will be able to come to England before we shall

reach Germany.

    I wish I had rooms to offer you, but you have seen that troop

of children, and they leave no corner unoccupied.

     Many thanks for the Bericht and the genealogical tables.

You seem, as usual, to have got through an immense amount of

work.                         occupied  with a paper           on    the " Classi

     I have been exceedingly

fication of Birds," a sort of expansion of one of my Hunterian

Lectures this year. It has now gone to press, and I hope soon to

be able to send you a copy of it.

      Occupation of this and other kinds must be my excuse for

having allowed so much longer a time to slip by than I imagined
had done before writing to you. It is not for want of sympathy,
be sure, for my wife and I have often talked of the new life opening

out to you.

    This is written in my best hand. I am proud of as can
                                       is
                                                                   is

                                                                                           it,

                                                                          II
read every word    quite  MeSa.s--ily  myself, which           more    than                     can
always say for my  own
                                       Ever yours faithfully,        Huxley.

                                                      T. H.

     The same experience               attested and enforced in the

correspondence with Dr. Anton Dohrn, which begins this

year. Genial, enthusiastic, as pungent as he was eager in

conversation, the future founder of the Marine Biological

Station at Naples, on his first visit to England, made my

father's acquaintance by accepting his invitation to stay with
him " for as long as you can make       convenient to stay " at
     is
                                        it

                                       if
                                         Ia

                                                                           it
                                                                                      it
Swanage, " a little country town with no sort of amusement

except what to be got by walking about                          rather pretty

country. But having warned you of this, repeat that

will give me much pleasure to see you you think worth

while to come so far."

     Dr. Dohrn came, and came into the midst of the family

-- seven children, ranging from ten years to babyhood, with

whom he made himself as popular by his farmyard re

pertory, as he did with the elders by other qualities. The

aimftperre--ssion left upon him appears from          letter written soon
                                              a

                                                             :
      " Ich habe heute mehrere Capitel in Mill's Utilitarianism gelesen
and das Wort happiness mehr als einmal gefunden hatte ich eine

Definition dieses vielumworbenen Wortes irgend Jemand zu geben,

1867 INFLUENCE OF MARRIAGE                                                                                                       291

Iich wiirde sagen : 1 go and see the Huxley family at Swanage ; and
if you would enjoy the same                 enjoyed, you would feel what is

happiness, and never more ask for a definition of this sentiment."

                                            Swanage, Sept. 22, 1867.

My dear Dohrn -- Thanks to my acquaintance with the

Mikroskopische Anatomie, and to the fact that you employ our
                                                                                                               of what I
manuscript   "chcaurrascetders",   and not  "thceurhsiivero" glSycphhriicfts,                                                    venture
to call the                       and not                                                                      your letter        was as

easy as it was pleasant to read. We are all glad to have news of

you, though it was really very unnecessary to thank us for trying to
                                  a pleasant one. Your conscience must be
make  "ypouunr gebnrite"f  visit  your talk, if it pricks you with so little cause.
more                       than

My wife rejoices saucily to find that phrase of hers has stuck so

s"trTounsgclhy." in your mind, but you must remember her fondness for
     You must certainly marry. In my bachelor days, it was unsafe

for anyone to approach me before mid-day, and for all intellectual

purposes I was barren till the evening. Breakfast at six would have

upset me for the day. You and the lobster noted the difference

the other day.

    Whether it is matrimony or whether it is middle age I don't

know, but as time goes on you can combine both.

    I cannot but accept your kind offer to send me Fanny Lewald's

works, though it is a shame to rob you of them. In return my

wife insists on your studying a copy of Tennyson, which we shall

send you as soon as we return to civilisation, which will be next
          If you are in London after that
Friday.                                       date we shall                                                                      "hFoaptehetro
see you  once more before you return to the  bosom of the

land."

    I I Idid my best to give the children your message, but fear

f"aiMlerdoo.i"gnominiously in giving the proper bovine vocalisation to
IThat small curly-headed boy Harry, struck,
                                                                                                               suppose by the

kindness you both show to children, has effected                                                               daays, y"ntDhoecsitsorbeDtowherenn-
you and Tyndall, and gravely observed the other

Tyndall do say Mroo."                                                                                          The " seven " are not
     My wife . . . sends her kind regards.
here or they would vote love by acclamation. -- Ever yours very
                                                                                                               T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

     He did not this year attend the British Association,
which was held in Dundee. This was the first occasion on

   /1 I have

met with the
definition of
             tbhweioserndmrue"cahdhiandpgepbinasteeesvdsera"wlomrcdoh,raepItetshrhsaonuoldfonMscaeiyll;'--sif  Utilitarianism    to-day, and
                                                                                                                    had to give   anybody a

292        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                      chap, xxi

which an evening was devoted to a working men's lecture, a

step important       as tending towards his own ideal     of what
science should
                     be :-- not the province of the few,  but the

possession of the many.

     This first lecture was delivered by Professor Tyndall,

who wrote him an account of the meeting, and in particular

of his reconciliation with Professors Thomson (Lord Kelvin)
and Tait, with whom he had had a somewhat embittered

controversy.         Huxley writes :--

      In his reply,

                        To J. Tyndall

      Thanks also for a copy of the Dundee Advertiser containing
your lecture. It seemed to me that the report must be a very good
one, and the lecture reads exceedingly well. You have inaugurated
the working men's lectures of the Association in a way that cannot

be improved. And it was worth the trouble, for I suspect they will

become a great and noble feature in the meetings.

      Everything seems to have gone well at the meeting, the educa
tional business carried [i.e. a recommendation that natural science
be made a part of the curriculum in the public schools], and the

Ianthropologers making fools of themselves in a most effectual way.
So that I do not feel have anything to reproach myself with for

Ibeing absent.

        am very pleased to hear of the reconciliation with Thomson
and Tait. The mode of it speaks well for them, and the fact will
remove a certain source of friction from amongst the cogs of your

mental machinery.

      The  following    gi:--ves  the    reason  for his  resigning  the
Fullerian  lectureship

                                         Athen^ium Club, May, 1867.

    IMy dear Tyndall -- A conversation I had with Bence   Jones
yesterday reminded me that I ought to have communicated    with
                                                            sup
you. But we do not meet so often as we used to do, being,
pose, both very busy, and I forget to write.

     You recollect that the last time we talked together, you men

Itioned a notion of Bence Jones's to make the Fullerian Professorship

of Physiology a practically permanent appointment, and that was

quite inclined to stick by that such arrangement could be carried
           I

                                    (if
out), and give up other things.

     But since have been engaged in the present course of lectures

1867 RESIGNS FULLERIAN LECTURESHIP

I have found reason to change my views. It is very hard work,

and takes up every atom of my time to make the lectures what they

Ishould be ; and find that at this time of year, being more or less
Iused up, suppose, with the winter work, I stand the worry and ex
citement of the actual lectures very badly. Add to this that it is
six weeks clean gone out of the only time I have disposable for real

Iscientific progress, and you will understand how it is that have

made up my mind to resign.

    II put all this clearly before Bence Jones yesterday, with the

proviso that could and would do nothing that should embarrass

the Institution or himself.
If there is the least difficulty in supplying my place, or if the
Imanagers think shall deal shadily with them by resigning before
Ithe expiration of my term, of course I go on. And hope you all
Iunderstand that
                     would do anything rather than put even the

ampep.e--araEnvceer  of a slight  upon  those  who were               kind enough to elect
                     yours,                                              T. H. Huxley.

       He found a substitute for 1 868, the last year of the
triennial course, in Dr. (now Sir) Michael Foster. Of his

final lectures in 1 867 he used to tell a story against him

self.

    IIn my early period as a lecturer, had very little confidence in
Imy general powers, but one thing prided myself upon was clear
Iness.
        was once talking of the brain before a large mixed audi

Ience, and soon began to feel that no one in the room understood
me. Finally          saw the thoroughly interested face of a woman

auditor, and took consolation in delivering the remainder of the
lecture directly to her. At the close, my feeling as to her interest
was confirmed when she came up and asked if she might put one

Iquestion upon        a single    po"inNt owwh, icPhrofsehsesohra,"d    not   quite  "  understood.
                                                                      she    said,
" Certainly,"          replied.   the skull ? " (Reminiscences of T.                    is the cere
bellum inside        or outside
                                                                                        H. Huxley,

by Professor H. Fairfield Osborn).

      Dr. Foster used to add maliciously, that disgust at the

small impression he seemed to have made was the true
reason for the transference of the lectures.

            CHAPTER XXII

                                1868

In 1868 he published five scientific memoirs, amongst
them his classification of birds and " Remarks upon Archa;o-
                       "
pteryx  Lithographica     {Proc.  Roy.  Soc. xvi. 1868, pp. 243-

248). This creature, a bird with reptilian characters, was a

suggestive object from which to popularise some of the far-

reaching results of his many years' labour upon the mor

phology of both birds and reptiles. Thus it led to a lecture
at the Royal Institution, on February 7, " On the Animals

which are most nearly intermediate between Birds and

Reptiles."

     Of this branch of work     Sir M.  Foster  says :  (Obit.  Not.

Proc. Roy. Soc. vol. lix.): --

      One great consequence of these researches was that science was
enriched by a clear demonstration of the many and close affinities

between reptiles and birds, so that the two henceforward came to

be known under the joint title of Sauropsida, the amphibia being at

the same time distinctly more separated from the reptiles, and their
relations to fishes more clearly signified by the joint title of Ichthyop
sida. At the same time, proof was brought forward that the line of

descent of the Sauropsida clearly diverged from that of the Mam
malia, both starting from some common ancestry. And besides
this great generalisation, the importance of which, both from a
classificatory and from an evolutional point of view, needs no com
ment, there came out of the same researches numerous lesser con

tributions to the advancement of morphological knowledge, includ
ing among others an attempt, in many respects successful, at a
classification of birds.

This work in connection with the reptilian ancestry of

1868 BATHYBIUS                                                                 295

birds further appears in the paleontological papers published

in 1869 upon the Dinosaurs (see Chap. XXIII.), and is

referred to in a letter to Haeckel, p. 325.
      His Hunterian lectures on the Invertebrata appeared this

year in the Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science (pp.
126-129, and 191-201), and in the October number of the
same journal appeared his famous article " On some Organ

isms living at great depth in the North Atlantic Ocean,"

originally delivered before the British Association at Norwich

in this year (1868). The sticky or viscid character of the
fresh mud from the bottom of the Atlantic had already been

noticed by Captain Dayman when making soundings for the
Atlantic cable. This stickiness was apparently due to the
presence of innumerable lumps of a transparent, gelatinous

substance, consisting of minute granules without discover

able nucleus or membranous envelope, and interspersed

with cretaceous coccoliths.                           After a description of the

structure of this substance and its chemical reactions, he

makes a careful proviso against confounding the statement

of fact in the description and the interpretation which he

proceeds to put upon these facts :--

I conceive that the granulate heaps and the transparent gelatin

ous matter in which they are embedded represent masses of proto

plasm. Take away the cysts which characterise the Radiolaria, and

Iaseade"adUrS-spchhaleeriomzo,"umwhwicohulmduvste,ry  nearly represent one of  this deep-
                                                      think, be regarded as a  new form

of those simple animated beings which have recently been so well

described by Haeckel in his Monographic der Moneras, p. 210.*

Of this he writes to Haeckel on October 6, 1868 :--

      [This paper] is about a new " Moner " which lies at the bottom
of the Atlantic to all appearances, and gives rise to some wonderful

calcified bodies. I have christened it Bathybius Haeckelii, and I
hope that you will not be ashamed of your godchild. I will send

you some of the mud with the paper.

      The explanation was plausible enough on general grounds,
if the evidence had been all that it seemed to be. But it
must be noted that the specimens examined by him and by

                                                1 See Coll. Ess. v. 153.

296     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                       chap, xxii

Haeckel, who two years later published a full and detailed

description of Bathybius, were seen in a preserved state.
Neither of them saw a fresh specimen, though on the cruise
of the Porcupine, Sir Wyville Thomson and Dr. W. Car
penter examined the substance in a fresh state, and found
no better explanation to give of it. However, not only
were the expectations that it was very widely distributed
over the Atlantic bottom, falsified in 1879 by the researches
of the Challenger expedition, but the behaviour of certain
deep-sea specimens gave good ground for suspecting that

what had been sent home before as genuine deep-sea mud,
was a precipitate due to the action on the specimens of the
spirit in which they were preserved. Though Haeckel, with
his special experience of Monera, refused to desert Bathybius,

a close parallel to which was found off Greenland in 1 876,
the rest of its sponsors gave it up. Whatever it might be
as a matter of possibility, the particular evidence upon which
it had been described was tainted. Once assured of this,
Huxley characteristically took the bull by the horns. With

out waiting for any one else to come forward, he made
public renunciation of Bathybius at the British Association
in 1879.* The "eating of the leek" as recommended to
his friend Dohrn (July 7, 1868), was not merely a counsel
for others, but was a prescription followed by himself on

occasion :--

    "As you know, I did not think you were on the right track
Iwith the Arthropoda, and am not going to profess to be sorry that

you have finally worked yourself to that conclusion.
     As to the unlucky publication in the Journal of Anatomy and
         you have read    your                 and know   what is
        eating a leek."  Well,                man has to  do that
IPhysiology,"                    Shakespeare
                                every honest
meant by           assure you that if eaten fairly and with
now and then, and

out grimaces, the devouring of that herb has a very wholesome

cooling effect on the blood, particularly in people of sanguine

temperament.

     Seriously you must not mind a check of this kind.

     This incident, one may suspect, was in his mind when
he wrote in his Autobiography of the rapidity of thought

characteristic of his mother :--

                                            1 See vol. ii. p. 5, sg.

1868 STYLE                                                                                                             297

      That characteristic has been passed on to me in full strength ;
it has often stood me in good stead, it has sometimes played me
sad tricks, and it has always been a danger.

     At the Norwich meeting of the Association he also de

livered his well-known lecture to working men " On a Piece
of Chalk," a perfect example of the handling of a common
and trivial subject, so as to make it " a window into the In
finite." He was particularly interested in the success of the

meeting, as his friend Hooker was President, and writes to

Darwin, September 12 :--

We had a capital meeting at Norwich, and dear old Hooker

came out in great force as he always   d"oeDsariwn ineimsmerugsen"ciews.hich                                           spread
      The only fault was the terrible

oFevergrusthsoen'ssectlieocnturaendoncre"pBt uodudthwishtenTemyopulesle."ast expected
                                                                                                ;                      even in

                                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                  it,
You will have the rare happiness to see your ideas triumphant

during your lifetime.                                                                           can't stand it.

    PS. -- am preparing to go into opposition
I

     This lecture " On a Piece of Chalk," together with two                                     ;

others delivered this year, seem to me to mark the matur                                                                 it,
ing of his style into that mastery of clear expression for
which he deliberately laboured, the saying exactly what he

meant, neither too much nor too little, without confusion

and without obscurity. Have something to say, and say
was the Duke of Wellington's theory of style Huxley's was
to say that which has to be said in such language that you
can stand cross-examination on each word. Be clear,

though you may be convicted of error. If you are clearly

wrong, you will run up against a fact some time and get set

right. If you shuffle with your subject, and study chiefly to

use language which will give a loophole of escape either

way, there no hope for you.

      This was the secret of his lucidity. In no one could

Buffon's aphorism on style find a better illustration, Le style
e'est Ihomme mime. In him science and literature, too

often divorced, were closely united and literature owes him
   debt for importing into so much of the highest scientific

habit of mind for showing that truthfulness need not be

bald, and that real power lies more in exact accuracy than
a
                      is

                                       ;

                                         it
                                                                                             ;

298

in luxuriance of diction. Years after, no less an authority

than Spedding, in a letter upon the influence of Bacon on

his own style in the matter of exactitude, the pruning of fine

epithets and sweeping statements, the reduction of number
less superlatives to positives, asserted that, if as a young man

he had fallen in with Huxley's writings before Bacon's, they

would have produced the same effect upon him.*

     Of the other two discourses referred to, one is the open

ing address which he delivered as Principal at the South

London Working Men's College on January 4, " A Liberal

Education, and Where to Find It." This is not a brief for

science to the exclusion of other teaching ; no essay has

insisted more strenuously on the evils of a one-sided educa

tion, whether it be classical or scientific ; but it urged the

necessity for a strong tincture of science and her method, if

the modern conception of the world, created by the spread

of natural knowledge, is to be fairly understood. If culture

is the " criticism of life," it is fallacious if deprived of know

ledge of the most important factor which has transformed

the medieval into the modern spirit.

     Two of his most striking passages are to be found in

this address ; one the simile of the force behind nature as

the hidden chess player ; the other the noble description

of the end of a true education.

     Well known as it   :         venture to quote the latter as an

instance of his style --     is,

                               I

     That man, think, has had liberal education, who has been so
     ;                            is a
trained in youth that his body the ready servant of his will, and
         I
does with ease and pleasure all the work that as mechanism        it
                                                 a                     is a is
                                                          ;
capable of whose intellect  is     clear cold logic engine, with all its
                                a

parts of equal strength, and in smooth working order ready, like

steam engine, to be turned to any kind of work, and spin the gossa
mers as well as forge the anchors of the mind; whose mind

stored with     knowledge of the great and fundamental truths of
     a
nature and of the laws of her operations one who, no stunted ascetic,a
                                        ;
is  full of life and fire, but whose passions are trained to come toa

heel by vigorous will, the servant of tender conscience who
                                                             ;

has learned to love all beauty, whether of nature or of art, to hate

all vileness, and to respect others as himself.

     Such an one and no other, conceive, has had liberal educa
                            1                    a

                               I
                                  See p. 487.

1868-9           THE PHYSICAL BASIS OF LIFE                                       2Q9

tion, for he     as completely as man can be, in harmony with
              is,
                               ;

                                                  a
                                                       is
nature. He will make the best of her, and she of him. They will

get on together rarely she as his ever-beneficent mother he as her
                                                                       is a
mouth-piece, her conscious self, her minister and interpreter.
                                                                              ;! ;
The third of these discourses                              the address " On the         ;

Physical    2B0a,sis18o6f9:L--ife,"  of    which  he       writes  to                         it aHaeckelon
January

You will be amused to hear that went to the holy city, Edin-
                                           I
burg itself, the other day, for the purpose of giving the first of
                                                     a it
series of Sunday lectures.           it Icame back without being stoned but

Murchison (who   is    Scotchman you know), told me he thought
                    a

was the boldest act of my life. The lecture will be published in

February, and shall send                   to you, as      contains    criticism of
              I

materialism which should like you to consider.
                 I

In he explains in popular form                             striking generalisa
        it

tion of scientific research, namely, that whether in animals

or plants, the structural unit of the living body made up
of similar material, and that vital action and even thought

are ultimately based upon molecular changes in this life-

stuff. Materialism gross and brutal materialism was the
                       !

mildest comment he expected in some quarters and he
took the opportunity to explain how he held " this union of

materialistic terminology with the repudiation of materialistic
philosophy," considering the latter " to involve grave philo

sophic error."

His expectations were fully justified in fact, he writes
                                                           ;

that some persons seemed to imagine that he had invented

protoplasm for the purposes of the lecture.

Here, too, in the course of a reply to Archbishop

Thompson's confusion of the spirit of modern thought with

the system of M. Comte, he launched his well-known defini

tion of Comtism as Catholicism minus Christianity, which

involved him in short controversy with Mr. Congreve (see
" The Scientific Aspects of Positivism," Lay Sermons,
                 a

                               1

                                                           if
                                                                                            :
                                                                                                       a p.
162),   and with another leading Positivist, who                       sent  him
letter
        through Mr. Darwin. Huxley replied --

                                           Jermyn Street, March II, 1869.

My dear Darw1n -- know quite enough of Mr.                                   to have

paid every attention to what he has to say, even you had not been

his ambassador.

                         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                           chap, xxii

   I glanced over his letter when I returned home last night very

tired with my two nights' chairmanship at the Ethnological and the

Geological Societies.

     Most of it is fair enough, though I must say not helping me to

any novel considerations.

      Two paragraphs, however, contained opinions which Mr.

is at perfect liberty to entertain, but not, I think, to express to me.

     The one that shaped what had to say at Edinburgh with
   view of stirring up the prejudices of the Scotch Presbyterians
a                        is,
                             is

                                I
                                                 II
(imagine how many Presbyterians                                had in my audiences against
                                                                                                            I !)
Comte.

      The other              the    concluding paragraph, in which Mr.                                            have
recommends me              to "    read Comte," clearly implying that

criticised Comte without reading him.
     You will know how far am likely to have committed either of
                         I
                                    I

                                             I
                                                    's I
the immoralities thus laid to my charge.
     At any rate, do not think care to enter into more direct

relations with anyone who so heedlessly and unjustifiably assumes

me to be guilty of them. Therefore                                                  shall content myself with
acknowledging the receipt of Mr.
yours faithfully,                                                                   letter through you. -- Ever
                                                                                             T. H. Huxley.

                                                               Jermyn Street, March 17, 1869.

   My dear Darwin -- After had sent my letter to you the other
                                      I

                                         's I
day thought how stupid had been not to put in slip of paper
   II                                                                               I
         it
                       it                                                                          a
to say was meant for                         edification.                                              it

      made sure you would understand that wished                                                            to be sent

on, and wrote (standing on the points of my toes and with my

tail up very stiff) with that end in view.                                                                  controversy
      [Sketch of two dogs bristling up.]
         am getting so weary of people writing to propose
   I

to me upon one point or another, that begin to wish the article
                                                                                    I

                                                                                                        is
had never been written. The fighting in itself not particularly

objectionable, but it's the waste of time.                                                                  A good
         begin to understand your sufferings over the Origin.
   I

        is
                    it,
book comparable to piece of meat, and fools are as flies who
                                   a

swarm to                 each for  tohfeanpuirdpeoas.e--       of depositing        and                     hatching  his
                                                               Ever yours,                                  Huxley.
own particular maggot                                                               T. H.

           little later he wrote to Charles Kingsley, who had

supported him in the controversy --
   A

                                                                                 :

                                                               Jermyn Street, April 12, 1869.

   My dear Kingsley -- Thanks for your hearty bottle-holding.

   Congreve              no better than donkey to take the line he does.
                         is
                                                            a

1868-9                              POSITIVISM                                                                                301

I studied Comte, Philosophie, Politique, and all sixteen years ago,

and having formed my judgment about him, put it into one of the

pigeon holes of my brain (about the H.* minor), and there let it
rest till it was wanted.

     You   asrceiepnecrefe--ctliyt  right in saying that Comte knew nothing about
physical
                                    is one of the points I am going to put in

evidence.

      The law of the three states is mainly evolved from his own con
sciousness, and is only a bad way of expressing that tendency to

personification which               is inherent   in    man.    -- as                                        Spencer  has already
     The Classification              of Sciences    is    bosh

shown.

Nothing short of madness, however, can have dictated Con-

greve's challenge of my admiration of Comte as a man at the end
of his article. Did                                                                                          of Comte f    I
it when it came out                 you ever   remaodreLiattgroe,'sanLdifeI                                  rose from        bought
                                    a year or                                                                            its  perusal

with a feeling of sheer disgust and contempt for the man who could

treat a noble-hearted woman who had saved his life and his reason,

as Comte treated his wife.
IAs soon as have time I will deal with Comte effectually, you
Imay depend upon that. At the same time, I shall endeavour to be

just to what there is (as hold), really great and good in his clear
conception of the necessity of reconstructing society from the
                     "mseaannsindgieu"         ni roi," if I may interpret
bottom to the top                                                                                                       that some
what tall phrase as                            with our conceptions of                                                religion and

politics on a scientific basis."

nhiigsge"Cronmofiurtvseteaimun ahdgiersanaladntedrEtthdreeanysswupowrraesshmipeapne"d.abpe--oinstgEatveeasr  from his own creed ;
                                                                                                              big a fetish as ever

                                                                                                             yours faithfully,
                                                                                                             T. H. Huxley.

     It is interesting to note how he invariably submitted
his writings to the criticism of his wife before they were
seen by any other eye. To her judgment was due the
toning down of many a passage which erred by excess of
vigour, and the clearing up of phrases which would be
obscure to the public. In fact, if an essay met with her

approval, he felt sure it would not fail of its effect when

published. Writing to her from Norwich on August 23,
1 868, he confesses himself with reference to the lecture " On

a Piece of Chalk " :--

    I met Grove who                 edits Macmillan,     at the soiree.                                                  He pulled
                                    out of his pocket   and said, " Look
the proof of my lecture                                                                                                  here, there

           The Hippocampus minor : compare p. 191.

302  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                      chap, xx11

Iis one paragraph in your lecture I can make neither top nor tail of.
I can't understand what it means."  looked to where his finger
Ipointed, and behold it was the paragraph you objected to when
I Iread you the lecture on the sea shore !
                                    told him, and said

should confess, however set up it might make you.

     At the beginning of September, he rejoined his wife and

family at Littlehampton, " a grand place for children, because
you go up rather than down into the sea, and it is quite im
possible for them to get into mischief by falling," as he
described it to his friend Dr. Dohrn, who came down for
ten days, eagerly looking forward " to stimulating walks over
stock and stone, to Tennyson, Herbert Spencer, and Harry's

ringing laugh."
      The latter half of the month he spent at or near

DInusbtrluinc,tiosnerv:i--ng upon the Commission on Science and Art

      To-day (he writes on September 16), we shall be occupied
in inspecting the School of Science and the Glasnevin botanical and
agricultural gardens, and to-morrow we begin the session work of
examining all the Irishry, who want jobs perpetrated. It is weary
work, and the papers are already beginning to tell lies about us and

attack us.

     The rest of the year he remained in London, except
the last four days of December, when he was lecturing
at Newcastle, and stayed with Sir W. Armstrong at

Jesmond.

                      To Professor Haeckel

                                                                                   Jan. 21, 1868.

      Don't you think we did a right thing in awarding the Copley
Medal to Baer last year ? The old man was much pleased, and it
was a comfort to me to think that we had not let him go to his grave
without the highest honour we had to bestow.

    I am over head and ears, as we say, in work, lecturing, giving

addresses to the working men and (figurez vous !) to the clergy.1

     1 On December 12, 1867, there was a meeting of clergy at Sion House,
under the auspices of Dean Farrar and the Rev. W. Rogers of Bishopsgate, when
the bearing of recent science upon orthodox dogma was discussed. First Huxley
delivered an address ; some of the clergy present denounced any concessions as
impossible ; others declared that they had long ago accepted the teachings of
geology; whereupon a candid friend inquired, "Then why don't you say so
from your pulpits?" (See Coll. Ess. iii. 119.)

186S MUSEUM WORK                                                           303

      In scientific work the main thing just now about which I am

e"nDgaegsecdendiesnza   revision  of the Dinosauria, with an eye to the
                       Theorie."    The road from Reptiles
                                  the Ratitae. The bird     to Birds   is   by
way of Dinosauria to                                        " phylum  "    was

struthious, and wings grew out of rudimentary forelimbs.
      IYou see that among other things
                                                 have been reading Ernst

Haeckel's Morphologie.

      The next two letters reflect his views on the proper work

to be undertaken by men of unusual scientific capacity --

                                                                JERMYN STREET,yoK. 15, 1868.

      My dear Dohrn --Though the most procrastinating correspon

dent in existence when a letter does not absolutely require an

answer, I am tolerably well-behaved when something needs to be
                                  And as that appears to me to be the
said or done immediately.

case  with    your letter  of the 13th    which  has  this  moment  reached
me,            no time in   replying to  it.
      I lose

      The Calcutta appointment has been in my hands as well as
Turner's, and I have made two or three efforts, all of which un
fortunately have proved unsuccessful to find : ( 1 ) A man who will
do for it and at the same time (2) for whom it will do. Now you
Ifulfil the first condition admirably, but as to the second
                                                                      have

very great doubts.

    IIn the first place the climate of Calcutta is not particularly good

for anyone who has a tendency to dysentery, and doubt very
much if you would stand it for six months.

      Secondly, we have a proverb that it is not wise to use razors to

cut blocks.

The business of the man who is appointed to that museum will
Ifbe to get it into order.
                                  he does his duty he will give his time
Iand attention to museum work pure and simple, and don't think

that (especially in an Indian climate), he has much energy left for
anything else after the day's work is done. Naming and arranging

specimens is a most admirable and useful employment, but when
you have done it is "cutting blocks," and you, my friend, are a

most indubitable razor, and I do not wish to have your edge blunted

in that fashion.

    If it were necessary for you to win your own bread, one's advice

might be modified. Under such circumstances one must do things
which are not entirely desirable. But for you who are your own

master and have a career before you, to bind yourself down to work

six hours a day at things you do not care about and which others
could do just as well, while you are neglecting the things which you

do care for, and which others could not do so well, would, I think,

be amazingly unwise.

3«4                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE V                          chap, xxh

    Libera vi animam ! don't tell my Indian friends I have dissuaded
you, but on my conscience I could give no other advice.

     We have to thank you three times over. In the first place for
a portrait which has taken its place among those of our other

friends ; secondly for the great pleasure you gave my little daughter

Jessie, by the books you so kindly sent ; and thirdly, for Fanny
Lewald's autobiography which arrived a few days ago.

      Jessie is meditating a letter of thanks (a serious undertaking),
and when it is sent the mother will have a word to say for

herself.

     In the middle of October scarlet fever broke out among my
children, and they have all had it in succession, except Jessie, who
took it seven years ago. The last convalescent is now well, but we

had the disease in the house nearly three months, and have been
like lepers, cut off from all communication with our neighbours for

that time.

     We have had a great deal of anxiety, and my wife has been pretty

nearly   w"otrhne  out with nursing day and    night ; but by          great good
fortune            happy family " has escaped  all permanent           injury, and

you might hear as much laughter in the house as at Swanage.
     Will you be so kind as to thank Professor Gegenbaur for a

paper on the development of the vertebral column of Lepidosteum
I have just received from him?
Iprocess of ossification and the
                                   "Hdeeckh-aksnobceheenn  writing about the
                                                           " question, but

cannot make out exactly where. Could you let me know ?

    I am anxious for the Arthropoden Werk, but I expect to gasp

when it comes.

     ITurn to p. 380 of the new edition of our friend Kolliker's
Handbuch,   and you will find that though a      view which took of the
" organon   adamantinae " some twelve or         fourteen years ago, and

which Kolliker has up to this time          repudiated,    tu"rtnhsat  out,    and     is
now admitted by him, to be perfectly        correct, yet                     was    not
                                                                        I

acquainted with the facts that would justify the conclusion." Really,

if I had time I could be angry.

     Pray remember me most kindly to Haeckel, to all whose
            I wish
enemies             confusion, and believe  me,  ever  yours   faithfully,

                                                       T. H.    Huxley.

    P.S. -- I have read a hundred pages or so of Fanny Lewald's 1st

Bd., and am delighted with her insight into child-life.

     Tyndall        was resigning  his  lectureship        at  the     School       of

Mines --

                                        Jermyn Street, June 10, 1868.

     My dear Tyndall--All I can say            iIs,  am heartily sorry.

     If you feel that your lectures here interfere with your original

1868 HAECKEL'S MORPHOLOGIE                                                     TPS

work, I should not be a true friend either to science or yourself if I

said a word against your leaving us.           very sorry. -- Ever yours

    IBut for all that am and shall remain            T. H. Huxley.

very sincerely,

    IIf you recommend
I Isupport him in any way
                                 , of course               shall be very glad to

               can. But at present                         am rather dis

posed to d     n anyone who occupies your place.

The following extract is from a letter to Haeckel

(November      13, 1868), with   reference     to the proposed     trans
lation of his   Morphologic by
                                 the Ray       Society :--

We shall at once look out for a good translator of the text, as

the job will be a long and a tough one. My wife (who sends her

Ibest wishes and congratulations on your fatherhood) will do the

bits of Goethe's poetry, and will look after the prose citations.
Next as to the text itself. The council were a little alarmed at

the bulk of the book, and it is of the utmost importance that it

should be condensed to the uttermost.

Furthermore, English propriety had taken fright at rumours touch

ing the aggressive heterodoxy of some passages. (We do not much
mind heterodoxy here, if it does not openly proclaim itself as such.)

    IAnd on both these points had not only to give very distinct
Iassurances, such as thought your letters had entitled me to give ;

but in a certain sense to become myself responsible for your behav

ing yourself  like a good boy !

    If I had  InfoatnckynoIwdno,yoIushaonudld  understood  your nature and dis
                                                 not have  allowed myself to be
position as
Iput in this position ; but have implicit faith in your doing what is

wise and right, and so making it tenable.

There is not the slightest desire to make you mutilate your book

or leave out anything which you conceive to be absolutely essen

tial ; and I on my part should certainly not think of asking you to

make any alteration which would not in my judgment improve the

book quite irrespectively of the tastes of the British public.

    I[Alterations are suggested.] But stop. By this time you will

be swearing at me for attacking all your favourite bits. Let me

know what you think about these matters.

    I congratulate you and Madame Haeckel heartily on the birth

of your boy. Children work a greater metamorphosis in men than

any other condition of life. They ripen one wonderfully and make

life ten times better worth having than it was.

                                               26 Abbey Place, Nov. 15, 1868.

My dear Darwin --You are always the bienvenu, and we shall

be right glad to see you on Sunday morning.

VOL. I                                                          X

306                  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                        chap, xxii

    IWe breakfast at 8.30, and the decks are clear before nine.
Iwould offer you breakfast, but know it does not suit you to come

out unfed ; and      --beEsvideers    you  would abuse      the opportunity to de
moralise Harry.*                    yours  faithfully,           T. H. Huxley.

     An undated note to Darwin belongs to the very end of

this year, or to the beginning of the next :--

     The two volumes of the new book have just reached me. My
best thanks for them ; and if you can only send me a little time

                     within the next three months you will heighten
I Ifor reading
the obligation twenty-fold.                wish             had either two heads or a

body that needed no rest !

     1 This small boy of nearly four was a great favourite of Darwin's. When
we children were all staying at Down about this time, Darwin himself would

come in upon  us at  dainmnoenr,gsat ndusp,att"inMg ahkeim  on the head, utter  what  has become
a household   word                                          yourself at home,    and   take large

mouthfuls."

                   CHAPTER XXIII

                   1869

IN 1869 Huxley published five paleontological papers,
chiefly upon the Dinosaurs (see letter above to Haeckel,
January 21, 1868). His physiological researches upon the
development of parts of the skull, are represented by a paper

for the Zoological Society, while the Introduction to the

Classification of Animals was a reprint this year of the sub
stance of six lectures in the first part of the lectures on
Elementary Comparative Anatomy (1864), which were out of

print, but still in demand by students.

     As President of the Ethnological Society, he delivered

an inaugural address " On the Ethnology and Archaeology
of India," on March 9, and another " On the Ethnology and
Archaeology of North America," on April 1 3. As president
of the Society, moreover, he urged upon the Government the
advisability of forming a systematic series of photographs of

the various races comprehended in the British Empire, and

was officially called upon to offer suggestions for carrying out

the project. This appears to be an amplification of Sir

Joseph Fayrer's plan in 1 866, with respect to all the tribes

of  India (see  p. 294, and Appendix            I.).
     On April      he delivered his " Scientific
                                                                                       :  Notes
                7                                 Education
of an After- Dinner Speech " before the Philomathic Society

at Liverpool (Coll. Ess. iii. 3), one part of which deals with
the attitude of the clergy towards physical science, and ex

presses the necessary antagonism between science and                                      p.

Roman Catholic doctrine which appears more forcibly in
one of his speeches at the School Board in 1871 (see

384)-

308  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY             chap, xxm

      In this and other educational addresses, he had sug

gested that one of the best ways of imparting to children a
preliminary knowledge of the phenomena of nature would be
a course of what the Germans call " Erdkunde," or general in

formation about the world we live in. It should reach from

our simplest everyday observations to wide generalisations
of physical science ; and should supply a background for
the study of history. To this he gave the name " Physio

graphy," a name which he believed to be original, until in

 1877 his attention was called to the fact that a Physio
graphic had been published in Paris thirty years before.

      The idea was no new one with him. Part of his pre

liminary lectures at the School of Mines had been devoted
to something of the kind for the last dozen years ; he had
served on the Committee of the British Association, ap
pointed in 1866 as the result of a paper by the present Dean
Farrar, then a Harrow master, " On the Teaching of Science
in the Public Schools," 1 to report upon the whole question.
Moreover, in consultation with Dr. Tyndall, he had drawn

up a scheme in the winter 1868-69, for the science teaching
in the International College, on the Council of which they

both were.

      Seven yearly grades were arranged in this scheme, pro
ceeding from the simplest account of the phenomena of

nature taught chiefly by object lessons, largely through the

elements of Physics and        Bwoittahnyp,raCcthiceaml isdtreymoannsdtratHiounmsa--n

Physiology -- all illustrated

to more advanced work in these subjects, as well as in
Social Science, which embraced not only the theory of
commerce and government, but the Natural History of Man

up to the point at which Ethnology and Archaeology touch

history.

     It is interesting to note that the framers of this report

thought it necessary to point out that one master could not

teach all these subjects.

     In the three later stages the boys might follow alter

native lines of study according to their tastes and capacities ;

but  of the earlier part, which was to    be obligatory upon all,
the
     report says :-- These four years     study, if properly em

                           1 See p. 277.

1869 PHYSIOGRAPHY LECTURES                                                       309

ployed by the teachers, will constitute a complete pre
paratory scientific course. However slight the knowledge of
details conferred, a wise teacher of any of these subjects will

be able to make that teaching thorough ; and to give the

scholar a notion of the methods and of the ideas which he

will meet with in his further progress in all branches of

physical science.
      In fact, the fundamental principle was to begin with

Observational Science, facts collected ; to proceed to Classi-

ficatory Science, facts arranged ; and to end with Inductive

Science, facts reasoned upon and laws deduced.

     While he was much occupied with the theoretical and
practical difficulties of such a scheme of science teaching

for general use, he was asked by his friend, the Rev. W.

Rogers of Bishopsgate, if he would not deliver a course of
lectures on elementary science to boys of the schools in

which the latter was interested.

He finally accepted in the following letter, and as

the result, delivered twelve lectures week by week from

April to June to a large audience at the London Institution
in Finsbury Circus,                                                          by
children who listened  lectures    not                   easily  forgotten       the
                       to them    nor                  by their
                                                                 elders :--

                                  Jermyn Street, Feb. 5, 1869.

My dear Rogers -- Upon due reflection I am not indisposed to

undertake the course of lessons we talked about the other day,

though they will cost me a good deal of trouble in various ways, and

at a time of the year when I am getting to the end of my tether

and don't much like trouble.

IBut the scheme is too completely in harmony with what (in
conjunction with  Tyinndgaelnl eraanld--onthoet rst)o     have  been trying to bring
about in schools                                       render   it a great temptation

Ito me to try to get it into practical shape.

     All have to stipulate is that we shall have a clear understand

ing on the part of the boys and teachers that the discourses are to
I[be] Lessons and not talkee-talkee lectures.
                                                                should like it to be

understood that the boys are to take notes and to be examined at
Ithe end of the course. Of course
                                                       cannot undertake to be ex

aminer, but the schools might make some arrangement on this

point.

     You see my great object is to set going something which can be

worked in every school in the country in a thorough and effectual

            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, xxiii

Iway, and set an example of the manner in which think this sort of

introduction to science ought to be managed.

    Unless this can be done I would rather not embark in a project

which will involve much labour, worry, and interruption to my

Iregular line of work.
       met  --MrE.ve[irlleygoiubrlse]   last  night, and   discussed the     suHbujexctleybr.iefly
with  him.                             very   faithfully,
                                                                      T. H.

    I Ienclose a sort of rough programme of the kind of thing

mean, cut up from a project of instruction for a school about which

I Iam now busy. The managers might like to see it. But shall

be glad to have it returned.

      These lectures were repeated in November at South
Kensington Museum, as the first part of a threefold course
to women on the elements of physical science, and the

Times reporter naively remarks that under the rather alarm
ing name of Physiography, many of the audience were no

doubt surprised to hear an exceedingly simple and lucid
description of a river-basin. Want of leisure prevented him

from bringing out the lectures in book form until November

1877. When it did appear, however, the book, like his
other popular works, had a wide sale, and became the fore
runner of an immense number of school-books on the

subject.

     As President of the Geological Society, he delivered an

address (Coll. Ess.     viii. 305), at the anniversary meeting,
February 1 9, upon      the " Geological Reform " demanded by

the considerations advanced by the physicists, as to the age
of the earth and the duration of life upon it. From the point

of view of biology he was ready to accept the limits sug
gested, provided that the premisses of Sir William Thomson's1

argument were shown to be perfectly reliable ; but he pointed

out a number of considerations which might profoundly
modify the results of the isolated causes adduced ; and
uttered a warning against the possible degradation of " a
proper reverence for mathematical certainty " into " a super
stitious respect for all arguments arrived at by process of

mathematics." 2

     At the close of the year, as his own period of office

came to an end, it was necessary to select a new president

      1 Now Lord Kelvin.                      2 See Coll. Ess. viii. Introd. p. 8.

                                       PUBLIC SPEAKING                                             3"

of the Geological. He strongly urged Professor (afterwards
Sir Joseph) Prestwich to stand, and when the latter con
sented, a few weeks, by the way, before his marriage was to

take place, replied :--

                                       Jermyn Street, Dec. 16, 1869.

    My dear Prestwich --Many thanks for your letter. Your

consent to become our President for the next period will give as
unfeigned satisfaction to the whole body of the Society as it does

to me and your other personal friends.

    I have looked upon the affair as settled since our last talk, and

a very great relief it has been to my mind.

    I IThere is no doubt public-dinner speaking (and indeed all public
speaking) is nervous work.             funk horribly, though never get the

least credit for it. But it is like swimming, the worst of it is in the
first plunge; and after you have taken your "header" it's not so

I Ibad (just like matrimony, by the way ; only don't be so mean as to

go and tell a certain lady said so, because want to stand well in

her books).                                                                                        can

    IOf course you may command me in all ways in which

possibly be of use. But as one of the chiefs of the Society, and

personally and scientifically popular with the whole body, you start

with an immense advantage over me, and will find no difficulties

Ibefore you.
    itWoeffiwciiallllyc.o--nsEidveerr  this business formally  settled,                and shall speak
of                                     yours very faithfully,
                                                                     T.                H. Huxley.

      I cannot place the following letter to Matthew Arnold
with certainty, but it must have been written about this

period.1 Everyone will sympathise with the situation :--

                                       26 Abbey Place, July 8.

    My dear Arnold --Look at Bishop Wilson on the sin of covet

ousness and then inspect your umbrella stand. You will there see
a beautiful brown smooth -handled umbrella which is not your

property.
    Think of what the excellent prelate would have advised and

bring it with   you    next            --timEeveyrouyoucrosmefaittohfuthlley,clubT. .  The porter  will
take care of   it for   me.                                                            H. Huxley.

     The following letter shows how paleontological work

was continually pouring in upon him :--

    1 The most probable date being 1869, for on July 1 of that year he dined
with Matthew Arnold at Harrow.

3" LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxiii

                                           Jerymn Street, May 7, 1869.

     My dear Darwin -- Do you recollect recommending 1 that the

Nassau, which sailed under Capt. Mayne's command for Magellan's
Straits some years ago should explore a fossiliferous deposit at the

Gallegos River?

      They visited the place the other day as you will see by Cunning

ham's letter which I enclose, and got some fossils which are now in

my hands.

     The skull to which Cunningham refers, consists of little more

than the jaws, but luckily nearly all the teeth are in place, and prove

it to be an entirely new ungulate mammal with teeth in uninter

rupted series like Anoplotherium, about as big as a small horse.
IWhat a wonderful assemblage of beasts there seems to have been
in South America !  suspect if we could find them all they would
make the classification of the Mammalia into a horrid mess. -- Ever
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

And on July 16, 1869, he writes again to Darwin :--

     To   tell  y"ouDatrhweintirsumthu, s  what with fossils,  Ethnology and the great
            of                              " which is such
question                                                       a worry to us all, I have
                                           and naturalists "
lost sight of the collectors                                   by grace of the dredge,"

almost as completely as you have.

Indeed, the pressure was so great that he resolved to

give up the Hunterian Lectures at the College of Surgeons,

as he had already given up the Fullerian Professorship at

the Royal Institution. So he writes        to Professor (afterwards

Sir William) Flower :--

                                           Jermyn Street, June 7, 1869.

                   Private, Confidential, Particular.

    My dear Flower -- I have written to Quain 2 to tell him that
I do not propose to be put in nomination for the Hunterian Chair
this year. I really cannot stand it with the British Association

hanging over my head. So make thy shoulders ready for the gown,

Iand practise   the goose-step             in order to march     properly behind  the
                will come and              hear your inaugural.
mace, and                                                        -- Ever yours,
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

The meeting of the Association to which he refers took

1 See p. 276.                 1 President of the Royal College of Surgeons.

THE METAPHYSICAL SOCIETY                                              313

-place at Exeter, and he writes  of it to  Darwin  (September

28):

      As usual, your abominable heresies were the means of getting
me into all sorts of hot water at the Association. Three parsons

set upon you, and if you were the most malicious of men you could
not have wished them to have made greater fools of themselves than

they did. They got considerably chaffed, and that was all they

were worth.1

     And to Tyndall, whom an accident had kept in Switzer

land :--

      After a sharp fight for Edinburgh, Liverpool was adopted as the

place of meeting for the Association of 1870, and I am to be

President ; although the Times says that my best friends tremble

for me. (I hope you are not among that particular lot of my best

Ifriends.)

         think we shall have a good meeting, and you know you are
pledged to give a lecture even if you come with your leg in a sling.

     The foundation of the Metaphysical Society in 1869
was not without interest as a sign of the times. As in the
new birth of thought which put a period to the Middle Ages,
so in the Victorian Renaissance, a vast intellectual ferment

had taken immediate shape in a fierce struggle with long
established orthodoxy. But whereas Luther displaced
Erasmus, and the earlier reformers fought out the quarrel
with the weapons of the theologian rather than those of the
Humanist, the latter-day reformation was based upon the
extension of the domain of positive science, upon the force of
historical criticism, and the sudden reorganisation of accumu
lated knowledge in the light of a physical theory adequate
to explain it.

      These new facts and the new or re-vivified theories based

upon them, remained to be reckoned with after the first
storm of denunciation had passed by, and the meeting at
Sion House in 1 867 2 showed that some at least of the

     1 It is perhaps scarcely worth while exhuming these long-forgotten argu
ments in their entirety ; but anyone curious enough to consult the report of the
meeting preserved in the files of the Academy, will find, among other things, an
entirely novel theory as to the relation of the Cherubim to terrestrial creation.

      2 See p. 303.

3M               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY       chap, xxiii

English clergy besides Colenso and Stanley wished to under

stand the real meaning of the new movement. Although

the wider effect of the scientific revival in modifying theo

logical doctrine was not yet fully apparent, the irreconcilables

grew fewer and less noisy, while the injustice of their attempts

to stifle the new doctrine and to ostracise its supporters

became more glaring.

    Thus among the supporters of the old order of thought,

there was one section more or less ready to learn of the new.

Another, seeing that the doctrines of which they were firmly

convinced were thrust aside by the rapid advance of the new

school, thought, as men not unnaturally think in the like

situation, that the latter did not duly weigh what was said

on their side. Hence this section eagerly entered into the

proposal to found a society which should bring together

men of diverse views, and effect, as they hoped, by personal

discussion of the great questions at issue, in the manner and

with the machinery of the learned societies, a rapprochement

unattainable by written debate.

      The scheme was first propounded by Mr. James Knowles,
then editor of the Contemporary Review, now of the Nineteenth

Century, in conversation with Tennyson and Professor

Pritchard (Savilian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford).
     Thus the Society came to be composed of men of the

most   opposite  ways of thinking and of very   --various occupa
tions  in life.  The largest group was that of
                                                 churchmen :

ecclesiastical dignitaries such as Thompson, the Archbishop

of York, Ellicott, Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol, and

Dean Alford ; staunch laymen such as Mr. Gladstone, Lord

Selborne, and the Duke of Argyll ; while the liberal school

was represented by Dean Stanley, F. D. Maurice, and Mark

Pattison. Three distinguished converts from the English

Church championed Roman Catholic doctrine -- Cardinal

Manning, Father Dalgairns, and W. G. Ward, while
Unitarianism claimed Dr. James Martineau. At the opposite

pole, in antagonism to Christian theology and theism gener

ally, stood Professor W. K. Clifford, whose youthful brilli

ancy was destined to be cut short by an untimely death.

Positivism was represented by Mr. Frederic Harrison ;

and Agnosticism by such men of science or letters as

             THE METAPHYSICAL SOCIETY  315

Huxley and Tyndall, Mr. John Morley, and Mr. Leslie

Stephen.                     too, by the variety of callings
      Something was gained,  members. While there were

followed by the different

professional students of philosophy, like Prof. Henry Sidgwick

or Sir Alexander Grant, the Principal of Edinburgh Univer

sity, in some the technical knowledge of philosophy was

overlaid by studies in history or letters ; in others, by the
practical experience of the law or politics ; in others, again,

medicine or biology supplied a powerful psychological

instrument.  This fact tended to keep the discussions in

touch with reality on many sides.

There was Tennyson, for instance, the only poet who

thoroughly understood the movement of modern science, a

stately but silent member ; Mr. Ruskin, J. A. Froude,

Shadworth Hodgson, R. H. Hutton of the Spectator, James
Hinton, and the well-known essayist, W. R. Greg; Sir

James Fitzjames Stephen, Sir F. Pollock, Robert Lowe
(Lord Sherbrooke), Sir M. E. Grant Duff, and Lord Arthur
Russell ; Sir John Lubbock, Dr. W. B. Carpenter, Sir William
Gull, and Sir Andrew Clark.

Of contemporary thinkers of the first rank, neither

John Stuart Mill nor Mr. Herbert Spencer joined the society.
The letter of the former declining the invitation to join

(given in the Life of W. G. Ward, p. 299) is extremely
characteristic. He considers the object of the projectors

very laudable, " but it is very doubtful whether it will be
realised in practice." The undoubted advantages of oral

discussion on such questions are, he continues, best realised

if undertaken in the manner of the Socratic dialogue, between

one and one ; but less so in a mixed assembly. He there

fore did not think himself justified in joining the society at

the expense of other occupations for which his time was
already engaged. And he concludes by defending himself

against the charge of not paying fair attention to the argu

ments of his opponents.
     It followed from the composition of the society that the

papers read were less commonly upon technical questions of
metaphysics, such as " Matter and Force " or " The Relation
of Will to Thought," than upon those of more vivid moral or

316  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY          CHAP. XXIII

religious interest, such as " What is Death ? " " The Theory of
a Soul," " The Ethics of Belief," or " Is God Unknowable,"

in which wide scope was given to the emotions as well as

the intellect of each disputant.

     The method of the Society was for the paper to be

printed and circulated among the members before the

meeting, so that their main criticisms were ready in advance.

The discussions took place after a dinner at which many of
the members would appear ; and if the more formal debates

were not more effectual than predicted by J. S. Mill, the
informal discussions, almost conversations, at smaller meet

ings, and the free course of talk at the dinner table, did

something to realise the primary objects of the society.

The personal rapprochement took place, but not philosophic

compromise or conversion.              Whether or not the tone

adopted after this period by the clerical party at large was

affected by the better understanding on the part of their

representatives in the Metaphysical Society of the true aims

of their opponents and the honest and substantial difficulties

which stood in the way of reunion, it is true that the violent

denunciations of the sixties decreased in number and inten

sity ; the right to free expression of reasoned opinion on

serious fact was tacitly acknowledged ; and, being less

attacked, Huxley himself began to be regarded in the light

of a teacher rather than an iconoclast. The question began to

be not whether such opinions are wicked, but whether from the

point of view of scientific method they are irrefragably true.

     The net philosophical result of the society's work was

to distinguish the essential and the unessential differences

between the opposite parties ; the latter were to a great

extent cleared up ; but the former remained all the more

clearly defined in logical nakedness for the removal of the

side issues and the personal idiosyncrasies which often

obscured the main issues. Indeed, when this point was

reached by both parties, when the origins and consequences

of the fundamental principles on either side had been fully

discussed and mutual misunderstandings removed to the

utmost, so that only the fundamentals themselves remained

in debate, there was nothing left to be done. The society,

in fact, as Huxley expressed      it,  " died of too much love."

THE METAPHYSICAL SOCIETY                        317

     Indeed, it is to be noticed that, despite the strong
antagonism of principle and deductions from principle which
existed among the members, the rule of mutual toleration

was well kept. The state of feeling after ten years' open

struggle seemed likely to produce active collision between
representatives of the opposing schools at close quarters.
" We all thought it would be a case of Kilkenny cats," said
Huxley many years afterwards. " Hats and coats would be

left in the hall, but there would be no owners left to put

them on again."  But only one flash of the sort was

elicited. One of the speakers at an early meeting insisted

on the necessity of avoiding anything like moral disapproba
tion in the debates. There was a pause ; then W. G. Ward
said : " While acquiescing in this condition as a general rule,

I think it cannot be expected that Christian thinkers shall
give no sign of the horror with which they would view the
spread of such extreme opinions as those advocated by Mr.

Huxley." Another pause ; then Huxley, thus challenged,
replied : " As Dr. Ward has spoken, I must in fairness say

that it will be very difficult for me to conceal my feeling as
to the intellectual degradation which would come of the
general acceptance of such views as Dr. Ward holds." *

      No amount of argument could have been more effectual

in supporting the claim for mutual toleration than these two
speeches, and thenceforward such forms of criticism were

conspicuous by their absence. And where honesty of con

viction was patent, mutual toleration was often replaced by
personal esteem and regard. " Charity, brotherly love,"
writes Huxley, " were the chief traits of the Society. We all

expended so much charity, that, had it been money, we

should every one have been bankrupt."

     The special part played in the society by Huxley was to
show that many of the axioms of current speculation are far

from being axiomatic, and that dogmatic assertion on some
of the cardinal points of metaphysic is unwarranted by the
evidence of fact. To find these seeming axioms set aside

as unproven, was, it appears from his Life, disconcerting to
such members of the society as Cardinal Manning, whose

arguments depended on the unquestioned acceptance of

1 Life of W. G. Ward, by Wilfrid Ward, p. 309.

31«             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  CHAP. XXIII

them. It was no doubt the observation of a similar attitude

of mind in Mr. Gladstone towards metaphysical problems

which provoked  Huxley to  mreeptlya,phwyhseicniana--ske"dAnwheetxhpeer rt  Mr.
Gladstone was   an expert
                                                                              in

metaphysics ? He does not know the meaning of the word."
      In addition to his share in the discussions, Huxley con

tributed three papers to the society. The first, read Novem

ber 17, 1869, was on "The views of Hume, Kant, and

Whately on the logical basis of the doctrine of the Immortality

of the Soul," showing that these thinkers agreed in holding

that no such basis is given by reasoning, apart, for instance,

from revelation. A summary of the argument appears in

the essay on Hume (Coll. Ess. vi. 201, sq.).

     On November 8, 1870, he read a paper, "Has a Frog
a Soul ? and if so, of what Nature is that Soul ? " Experi

ment shows that a frog deprived of consciousness and

volition by the removal of the front part of its brain, will,

under the action of various stimuli, perform many acts

which can only be called purposive, such as moving to

recover its balance when the board on which it stands

is inclined, or scratching where it is made uncomfort

able, or croaking when pressed in a particular spot. If its

spinal cord be severed, the lower limbs, disconnected from

the brain, will also perform actions of this kind. The
question arises, Is the frog entirely a soulless automaton, per

forming all its actions directly in response to external

stimuli, only more perfectly and with more delicate adjust

ment when its brain remains intact, or is its soul distributed

along its spinal marrow, so that it can be divided into two

parts independent of one another?

      The professed metaphysician might perhaps tend to

regard such consideration as irrelevant ; but if the starting-

point of metaphysics is to be found in psychology, psycho

logy itself depends to no small extent upon physiology.

This question, however, Huxley did not pretend to solve.

In the existing state of knowledge he believed it to be in

soluble. But he thought it was not without its bearing

upon the supposed relations of soul and body in the human

subject, and should serve to give pause to current theories

on the matter.

                           THE NAME AGNOSTIC                                                         319

n,His third paper, read January                        1876, was on the
" Evidence of the Miracle of the Resurrection," in which he

argued   that there was no valid evidence of actual death
having
led to   taken place. His rejection of the miraculous had
         an invitation from some of his opponents in the

society to write a paper on a definite miracle, and explain
his reasons for not accepting it. His choice of subject was

due to two reasons : firstly, it was a cardinal instance ;

secondly, it was a miracle not worked by Christ Himself,
and therefore a discussion of its genuineness could offer

no suggestion of personal fraud, and hence would avoid in

flicting gratuitous pain upon believers in it.
      This certainty that there exist many questions at present

insoluble, upon which it is intellectually, and indeed morally

wrong to assert that we have real knowledge, had long been

with him, but, although he had earned abundant odium by

openly resisting the claims of dogmatic authority, he had

not been compelled to define his philosophical position until

he entered the Metaphysical Society. How he came to
enrich the English language with the name " Agnostic " is
explained in his article " Agnosticism " (Coll. Ess. v. pp. 237-

2 39)-

     After describing how it came about that his mind

"steadily gravitated towards the conclusions of Hume and

Kant," so well stated by the latter as follows :--

The greatest and perhaps the sole use of all philosophy of pure

reason   is,      after all, merely negative, since serves not as an organon
                                         :
                  ;                                                                  discipline for its
                                                                      it
                                                                                  a
for the enlargement (of knowledge), but as
delimitation and, instead of discovering truth, has only the modest

merit of preventing error --

he proceeds --

When reached intellectual maturity, and began to ask myself
II
whether  ; II     was an atheist, theist, or pantheist                                               materialist or
                                         aa
                        a
                                           I
                                                      ;I a

                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                              ;a
an idealist                Christian or freethinker    found that the more                           aI

learned and reflected, the less ready was the answer until, at last,

   came to the conclusion that had neither art nor part with any of
these denominations, except the last. The one thing in which most

of these good people were agreed was the one thing in which

cedrtifafeinred"    from   "t--hemha.d,  They were     quite sure they had attained
                  gnosis                 more or less  successfully, solved the problem

320                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, xx111

Iof existence ; while I was quite sure         had not, and had a pretty

Istrong conviction that the problem was insoluble. And, with Hume

and Kant on my side, could not think myself presumptuous in

Iholding fast by that opinion. . . .
     This was my situation when       had the good fortune to find a

place among the members of that remarkable confraternity of antago

nists, long since deceased, but of green and pious memory, the

Metaphysical Society. Every variety of philosophical and theological

opinion was represented there, and expressed itself with entire open

ness ; most of my colleagues were -ists of one sort or another ; and,
however kind and friendly they might be, I, the man without a rag

of a label to cover himself with, could not fail to have some of the

uneasy feelings which must have beset the historical fox when, after

Ileaving the trap in which his tail remained, he presented himself

to his normally elongated companions. So took thought, and
Iinvented what conceived to be the appropriate
                                                         title of  "agnostic."
It came into my head as suggestively antithetic          to the "  gnostic " of

I IChurch history, who professed to know so much about the very

things of which was ignorant ; and took the earliest opportunity
of parading it at our Society, to show that I, too, had a tail, like the
other foxes. To my great satisfaction, the term took ; and when the

Spectator had stood godfather to              any suspicion in the minds of
                       a
                                         it,
respectable people that knowledge of its parentage might have

awakened was, of course, completely lulled.

     As for the dialectical powers he displayed in the

debates, was generally acknowledged that in this, as well
I
as in the power of conducting a debate, he shared the preaI

              a it iteminence with W. G. Ward. Indeed, proposal was made
                                                    a

that the perpetual presidency in alternate years should be

vested in these two but time and health forbade.
                       ;
     His             part in the debates thus       described  in a letter to
                     Professor Henry SidgwickI
me   from                        is                 --

                                                 :

     Dear Mr. Huxley -- became member of the Metaphysical
                                      a

Society,             think, at its first meeting in 1869; and, though my

engagements in Cambridge did not allow me to attend regularly,
retain very distinct recollection of the part taken by your father inaI
                                                                            II
the debates at which we were present together. There were several

members of the Society with whose philosophical views                  had, on

     the whole, more sympathy; but there was certainly no one to whom

found more pleasant and more instructive to listen. Indeed

soon came to the conclusion that there was only one other member

of our Society who could be placed on par with him as debater,
                                              a

                                                      ;
on the subjects         discussed at our meetings and      that was,   c--urWio.usGly.
enough, man            of the most diametrically opposite    opinions

i869 METAPHYSICAL SOCIETY                                               321

Ward, the well-known advocate of Ultramontanism. Ward was by

training, and perhaps by nature, more of a dialectician ; but

your father was unrivalled in the clearness, precision, succinctness,

and point of his statements, in his complete and ready grasp of his

own system of philosophical thought, and the quickness            and versa
tility with which his thought at once assumed the right           attitude of

defence against any argument coming from any quarter.              I used to

think that while others of us could perhaps find, on the spur of the

Imoment, an

your father
        answer more or         less effective       tothseomaenswuneerx--pectemd eaanttacthke,
        seemed always          able to find

answer that it was reasonable to give, consistently with his general

view, and much the same answer that he would have given if he had

been allowed the fullest time for deliberation.

The general tone of the Metaphysical Society was one of extreme

consideration for the feelings of opponents, and your father's
speaking formed no exception to the general harmony. At the same

Itime seem to remember him as the most combative of all the
speakers who took a leading part in the debates. His habit of never

wasting words, and the edge naturally given to his remarks by his

genius for clear and effective statement, partly account for this
Iimpression

ally liked
        ; still       used to think  tshaartcahseticlikehdumfigohutrin--g,thaonudghoccaalswioanys
        to give        play to his
Istrictly within the limits imposed by courtesy.
Io"nIencoochcearseionnce                                       remember that on

                when      had read   to the         Society    an essay on the
                of Empiricism," I     looked         forward    with some little
                                                    came, I
anxiety to his  criticisms ;   a;ndhewhe"nwetnhtey             felt that my anxiety
had not been      superfluous                       for " the  weak points of my
argument in half a dozen trenchant sentences, of which I shall not
forget the impression. It was hard hitting, though perfectly courteous

and fair.

    I wish I could remember what he said, but the memory of all

the words uttered in these debates has now vanished from my mind,
though I recall vividly the                                    I
briefly to put down. -- Believe  general impression that          have  tried
                                 me, yours very truly,

                                                    Henry Sidgwick.

VOL. I                                                            Y

                 CHAPTER XXIV

                                             1870

With the year 1870 comes another turning-point in

Huxley's career. From his return to England in 1850 till
1854 he had endured four years of hard struggle, of hope
deferred ; his reputation as a zoologist had been established
before his arrival, and was more than confirmed by his
personal energy and power. When at length settled in the
professorship at Jermyn Street, he was so far from thinking
himself more than a beginner who had learned to work in
one corner of the field of knowledge, still needing deep
research into all kindred subjects in order to know the true
bearings of his own little portion, that he treated the next
six years simply as years of further apprenticeship. Under
the suggestive power of the Origin of Species all these
scattered studies fell suddenly into due rank and order ; the
philosophic unity he had so long been seeking inspired his
thought with tenfold vigour, and the battle at Oxford in
defence of the new hypothesis first brought him before the
public eye as one who not only had the courage of his con
victions when attacked, but could, and more, would, carry
the war effectively into the enemy's country. And for the
next ten years he was commonly identified with the
championship of the most unpopular view of the time ;
a fighter, an assailant of long-established fallacies, he was
too often considered a mere iconoclast, a subverter of every
other well -rooted institution, theological, educational, or

moral.

     It is difficult now to realise with what feelings he was

regarded in the average respectable household in the sixties

1870 LA Y SERMONS                                      323

and early seventies. His name was anathema ; he was a

terrible example of intellectual pravity beyond redemption, a
man with opinions such as cannot be held " without grave
personal sin on his part " (as was once said of Mill by W.
G. Ward, see p. 451), the representative in his single person
of rationalism, materialism, atheism, or if there
                                                   be  any more
abhorrent "ism" -- in token of which as late       as   1892 an

absurd zealot at the headquarters of the Salvation Army

crowned an abusive letter to him at Eastbourne by the state

ment, " I hear you have a local reputation as a Bradlaughite."

But now official life began to lay closer hold upon him.

He came forward also as a leader in the struggle for

educational reform, seeking not only to perfect his own

biological teaching, but to show, in theory and practice, how

scientific training might be introduced into the general

system of education.  He was more than once asked to

stand for Parliament, but refused, thinking he could do more

useful work for his country outside.

     The publication in 1870 of Lay Sermons, the first of a
series of similar volumes, served, by concentrating his moral

and intellectual philosophy, to make his influence as a
teacher of men more widely felt. The " active scepticism,"

whose conclusions many feared, was yet acknowledged as

the quality of mind which had made him one of the clearest

thinkers and safest scientific guides of his time, while his

keen sense of right and wrong made the more reflective of

those who opposed his conclusions hesitate long before

expressing a doubt as to the good influence of his writ

ings. This view is very clearly expressed in a review  of
the book in the Nation (New York, 1870, xi. 407).      it

      And as another review of the Lay Sermons puts

(Nature, iii. 22), he began to be made a kind of popular

oracle, yet refused to prophesy smooth things.

During the earlier period, with more public demands

made upon him than upon most men of science of his age

and standing, with the burden of four Royal Commissions

and increasing work in learned societies in addition to his

regular lecturing and official paleontological work, and the

many addresses and discourses in which he spread abroad in

the popular mind the leaven of new ideas upon nature and

324  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                          chap, xxiv

education and the progress of thought, he was still constantly
at work on biological researches of his own, many of which

took shape in the Hunterian lectures at the College of

Surgeons from 1863- 1870. But from 1870 onward, the

time he would spare to such research grew less and less.

For eight years he was continuously on one Royal
Commission after another. His administrative work on

learned societies continued to increase ; in 1869-70 he held
the presidency of the Ethnological Society, with a view to
effecting the amalgamation with the Anthropological, " the
                      " for uniting the Societies which occupy
                    man (that excludes " Society " which
plan," as he calls1
themselves with
                       it,
                                                  it

                                                                     a
occupies itself chiefly with woman)." He became president
of the Geological Society in 1872, and for nearly ten

years, from 1871 to 1880, he was secretary of the Royal
Society, an office which occupied no small portion of his
time and thought, " for he had formed
                                                                        very high ideal of

the duties of the Society as the head of science in this

country, and was determined that                                      should  not at   least                              fall
                                                                      on his   part "                                     M.
short through any lack of exertion                                                     (Sir

Foster, R. S. Obit. Not.).1
     The year 870 itself was one of the busiest he had

ever known. He published one biological and four

paleontological memoirs, and sat on two Royal Commissions,

one on the Contagious Diseases Acts, the other on Scientific

Instruction, which continued until 1875.
      The three addresses which he gave in the autumn, and

his election to the School Board will be spoken of later in
                    9

                                                                                                                       ;
the first part of the year he read two papers at the
Ethnological Society, of which he was president, on " The

Geographical Distribution of the Chief Modifications of

Mankind," March -- and on " The Ethnology of Britain,"
May 10 --the substance of which appeared in the Contem
porary Review for July under the title of " Some Fixed

Points in British Ethnology" (Coll. Ess. vii. 253). As
president also of the Geological Society and of the British

Association, he had two important addresses to deliver. In

addition to this, he delivered an address before the Y.M.C.A.
at Cambridge on " Descartes' Discourse."

                    1  See Appendix II.

1870 CELT AND SAXON                                                              325

      How busy he was may be gathered from his refusal of

an invitation to Down :--

                                   26 Abbey Place, Jan. 21, 1870.

    My dear Darwin --It is hard to resist an invitation of yours --
Ibut dine out on Saturday ; and next week three evenings are

abolished by Societies of one kind or another. And there is that

horrid Geological address looming in the future !
I Iam afraid must deny myself at present.
I am glad you liked the sermon. Did you    see                              the  " Devonshire
man's " attack in the Pall Mall?
    I have been wasting my time in polishing that worthy off.                    I
would not have troubled myself about him, if it were not for the

political   bearing of  the  Celt  tqoueaslltioynou.ju--stEnvoewr . yours,
     My    wife sends   her  love                  T. H. Huxley.

The reference to the " Devonshire Man " is as follows :--

Huxley had been speaking of the strong similarity between

Gaul and German, Celt and Teuton, before the change of

character brought about by the Latin conquest ; and of the

similar commixture, a dash of Anglo-Saxon in the mass of

Celtic, which prevailed in our western borders and many

parts of Ireland, e.g. Tipperary.
      The " Devonshire Man         " wrote on Jan. 1 8                           to the Pall
                                   the statement that
Mall Gazette, objecting to                                                       " Devonshire

men are as little Anglo-Saxons as Northumbrians are

Welsh." Huxley replied on the 21st, meeting his historical

arguments with citations from Freeman, and especially by

completing his opponent's quotation from Caesar, to show

that under certain conditions, the Gaul was indistinguishable

from the German.             The assertion that the Anglo-Saxon

character is midway between the pure French or Irish and

the Teutonic, he met with the previous question, "Who is the

pure Frenchman ? Picard, Provencal, or Breton ? or the pure
Irish ? Milesian, Firbolg, or Cruithneach ? "

      But the " Devonshire Man " did not confine himself to

science. He indulged in various personalities, to the

smartest of which, a parody of Sydney Smith's dictum on

Dr. Whewell, Huxley replied :--

     " A Devonshire     Man " is good      enough to say of me that
" cutting up monkeys    is his forte, and  cutting up men is his foible."

326          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        CHAP. XXIV

IWith your permission,     propose to cut up " A Devonshire Man " ;
but I leave it to the public to judge whether, when so employed, my

occupation is to be referred to the former or to the latter category.

     For this he was roundly lectured by the Spectator on
January 29, in an article under the heading " Pope Huxley."
Regardless of the rights or wrongs of the controversy, he

was chidden for the abusive language of the above paragraph,

and told that he was a very good anatomist, but had better

not enter into discussions on other subjects.

      The same question is developed in the address to the
Ethnological Society later in the year and in " Some Fixed

Points in British Ethnology" {Contemporary Review, 1 87 1 ),
and reiterated in an address from the chair in Section D

at the British Association in 1878 at Dublin, and in a
letter to the Times for October 12, 1887, apropos of a
leading article upon " British Race-types of To-day."

     Letter-writing was difficult under such pressure of work,

but the claims of absent friends were not wholly forgotten,

though left on one side for a time, and the warm-hearted

Dohrn, who   could         not bear    to    think himself   forgotten,
managed to   get a         letter out   of                    scientific
                                              him-- not on

business.                              26 Abbey Place, Jan. 30, 1870.

     My dear Dohrn -- In one Isense deserve all the hard things

Iyou may have said and thought about me, for it is really scandalous

and indefensible that have not written to you. But in another
I Isense, do not, for have very often thought
Idoings,                                              about you and your
                           told   you once   before,  your memory always
remains                    happy   family."
     and as  in  thhaeve"
      green

     But what between the incessant pressure of work and an inborn
Iaversion to letter-writing,
                                become a worse and worse correspondent
Ithe longer I live, and unless can find one or two friends who will

[be] content to bear with my infirmities and believe that however

Ilong before we meet, shall be ready to take them up again exactly
I Iwhere left off, shall be a friendless old man.
                                  Iyou are mistaken. The Scripture says
      As for your old Goethe,
                                  than a dead lion," and am a living
Ithat " a living dog is better    Cotta's edition of him the other day,

dog. By the way bought
Iand there he stands on my bookcase in all the glory of gilt, black,

and marble edges. Do you know did a version of his Aphorisms
on Nature into English the other day.* It astonishes the British

           1 For the first number of Nature, November 1869.

1870 PALEONTOLOGY AND EVOLUTION                                   327

Philistines not a little. When they began to read it they thought
Iit was mine, and that had suddenly gone mad !
IBut to return to your affairs instead of my own.
                                                                  received
your volume on the Arthropods the other day, but I shall not be
able to look at it for the next three weeks, as I am in the midst of

my lectures, and have an annual address to deliver to the Geological

Society on the 18th February, when, I am happy to say, my tenure

of office as President expires.

    After that I shall be only too glad to plunge into your doings
Iand, as always, shall follow your work with the heartiest interest.

IBut wish you would not take it into your head that Darwin or I,

Ioner edany"ornee-estealbselishtihnginks"
otherwise than highly of you,                   or that           you
in any one's eyes. But hope                     you will          not

have finished your work before the autumn, as they have made me
President of the British Association this year, and I shall be very
Ibusy with my address in the summer. The meeting is to take place
in Liverpool on the 14th September,  and   live in hope that      you
will be able to come over. Let me    know                         may
                                           if you can, that I

secure you good quarters.                                         But for

    I shall ask the wife to fill up the next half sheet.
Heaven's sake don't be angry with me in English again. It's far

worse than a scolding in Deutsch, and I have as little forgotten my
German as I have my German friends.

      On February 1 8 he delivered his farewell address f to the

Geological Society, on laying down the office of President.

He took the opportunity to revise his address to the society
in 1862, and pointed out the growth of evidence in favour
of the evolution theory, and in particular traced the paleon-
tological history of the horse, through a series of fossil types

approaching more and more to a generalised ungulate type
and reaching back to a three-toed ancestor, or collateral of
such an ancestor, itself possessing rudiments of the two other

toes which appertain to the average quadruped.

    If (he said) the expectation raised by the splints of the horses

that, in some ancestor of the horses, these splints would be
found to be complete digits, has been verified, we are furnished
with very strong reasons for looking for a no less complete verifica
tion of the expectation that the three-toed Plagiolophus-WVz "avus"
of the horse must have been a five-toed "atavus" at some early

period.

      Six years afterwards, this forecast of paleontological re
search was to be fulfilled, but at the expense of the European

1 "Paleontology and the Doctrine of Evolution," Coll. Ess. viii.

328  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  CHAP. XXIV

ancestry of the horse. A series of ancestors, similar to these

European fossils, but still more equine, and extending in

unbroken order much farther back in geological time, was
discovered in America. His use of this in his New York
lectures as demonstrative evidence of evolution, and the
immediate fulfilment of a further prophecy of his will be told

in due course.

     His address to the Cambridge Y.M.C.A., "A Commentary

on Descartes' ' Discourse touching the method of using reason
rightly, and of seeking scientific truth,"'was delivered on March
24. This was an attempt to give this distinctively Christian
audience some vision of the world of science and philosophy,
which is neither Christian nor Unchristian, but Extra-
christian, and to show " by what methods the dwellers therein
try to distinguish truth from falsehood, in regard to some of

the deepest and most difficult problems that beset humanity,
" in order to be clear about the actions, and to walk sure-

footedly in this life," as Descartes says. For Descartes had
laid the foundation of his own guiding principle of " active

scepticism, which strives to conquer itself."

     Here again, as in the Physical Basis of Life, but with

more detail, he explains how far materialism is legitimate,
     in fact, a sort of shorthand idealism. This essay, too,

contains the often-quoted passage, apropos of the " introduc
tion of Calvinism into science."
is,

  I

      II
                   a

               it I

                         is if

                                      is
                                                                    is

                                                                                                    ;

                                                                       I
     protest that  some great Power would agree to make me

always think what true and do what right, on condition of being

turned into sort of clock and wound up every morning before

got out of bed, should instantly close with the offer. The only

freedom care about the freedom to do right the freedom to

do wrong am ready to part with on the cheapest terms to any one

who will take of me.

     This was the latest of the essays included in Laya

Sermons, Addresses and Reviews, which came out, with a

dedicatory letter to Tyndall, in the summer of 1870, and,
whether on account of its subject matter or its title, always
remained his most popular volume of essays.

     To the same period belongs letter to Matthew Arnold
about his book St. Paul and Protestantism.

1870 ST. PAUL AND PROTESTANTISM                                                             329

    My dear Arnold --Many thanks for your book which I have

been diving into at odd times as leisure served, and picking up

many good things.
      One of the best is what you say near the end about science

gradually conquering the materialism of popular religion.

     It will startle the Puritans who always coolly put the matter the

other way ; but it is profoundly true.

These people are for the most part mere idolaters with a Bible-

fetish, who urgently stand in need of conversion by Extra-christian

Missionaries.
It takes all one's practical experience of the importance of

Puritan ways    of thinking to overcome one's    feeling of the            utnhreemalit"y    of
their beliefs.                                    how real to                               the
                 I had pretty well forgotten
man in the next street "
I
        I

                          is
                                        is,

                                   if

                                                       it

                                                                            if

                                                                                                                  is
                           till your citation of their horribly absurd
dogmas reminded me of it. If you can persuade them that Paul

fairly interpretable in your sense, may be the beginning of better

things, but have my doubts Paul would own you, he could

return to expound his own epistles.

am glad you like my Descartes article. My business with my

scientific   fPriaeunld. --s Evseormeytohuirnsg    like yours with         the Puritans, nature
being our                                        very faithfully,          T. H. Huxley.

26 Abbey Place, May 10, 1870.

From the 14th to the 24th of April Huxley, accom
                                                                           trip to the Eifel
panied by his friend Hooker, made
                                                 is

                                                               ;

                                                                        a
country. His sketch-book full of rapid sketches of the

country, many of them geological one day indeed there are

eight, another nine such.

Tyndall was invited to join the party, and at first

accepted, but then recollected the preliminaries which had to
be carried out before his lectures on electricity at the end of

the month. So he writes on April --
                                                 6

                                                     :
                                                                                     6
                                                 Royal Institution, April.

My dear Huxley -- was rendered drunk by the excess of pro
                          I
spective pleasure when you mentioned the Eifel yesterday, and tookI

no account of my lectures. They begin on the 28th, and have
                                                                           ;I
studiously to this hour excluded them from my thought.                          Ihave made

                                                                                      is I
arrangements to see various experiments involving the practical
application of electricity before the lectures begin
                                                                           find myself, in

short, cut off from the expedition.              My regret on this score                    com

mensurable with the pleasures                    promised myself. Confound the

lectures  !

330             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, xxiv

     IAnd yours 1 on Friday is creating a pretty hubbub already.

am torn to pieces by women in search of tickets. Anything that

Itouches  pdroougbetnnitootr.s--hipYoiuntresreesvtser, them.  You will have a crammed

house                                                                  John Tyndall.

     Huxley replied :--

                         Geological   Survey of England                    and Walks,
                                            April 6, 1870.
     My dear    Tyndall --
                  DAMN

                             the

                                   L

                                     e                                     T. H. H.

                                       c
                                         t
                                           u
                                            r
                                               e
                                                 s.

     That's a practical application of electricity for you.

     In   June   he writes   to      his  wife, who had                    taken  a sick
child to
           the  seaside :--

    I hear a    curious rumour (which                          is not for  circulation), that
Froude and I    have been proposed for                                     Commemoration,
                                                              D.C.L.'s at

and that the proposition has been bitterly and strongly opposed by

Pusey.f They say there has been a regular row in Oxford about it.

I II suppose this is at the bottom of Jowett's not writing to me. But

   hope that he won't fancy that should be disgusted at the opposi

tion and object to come [i.e. to pay his regular visit to Balliol].

IOn the contrary, the more complete Pusey's success, the more

desirable it is that should show my face there. Altogether it is an

awkward position, as I am supposed to know nothing of what is

going on.

     The situation is further developed in a letter to Darwin :--

    My dear Darwin -- I                   Jermyn Street, June 22, 1870.

morning. Pray keep them      Isent the books to Queen Anne St. this

                             as long as you like, as am not using

them.

    I am greatly disgusted that you are coming up to London this

    1 On the Pedigree of the Horse, April 8, 1870, which was never brought out

in book form.

    3 Huxley ultimately received his D.C.L. in 1885.

1870 PRESIDENT OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION 331

week, as we shall be out of town next Sunday. It is the rarest
thing in the world for us to be away, and you have pitched upon

the one day. Cannot we arrange some other day ?

    I wish you could have gone to Oxford, not for your sake, but

for theirs. There seems to have been a tremendous shindy in the
Hebdomadal board about certain persons who were proposed ; and

I am told that Pusey came to London to ascertain from a trust

worthy friend who were the blackest heretics out of the list proposed,

and that he was glad to assent to your being doctored, when he got
back, in order to keep out seven devils worse than that first !

      Ever, oh Coryphaeus diabolicus, your faithful follower,
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

The choice of a subject for his Presidential Address at the

British Association for 1870, a subject which, as he put
" has lain chiefly in land flowing with the abominable, and
a

                      I

                                        a
                                           a

                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                          * it,
peopled with mere grubs and mouldiness," was suggested by
  recent controversy upon the origin of life, in which the

experiments of Dr. Bastian, then Professor of Pathological

Anatomy at University College, London, which seemed to

prove spontaneous generation, were shown by Professor

Tyndall to contain flaw. Huxley had naturally been

deeply interested from the first he had been consulted by

Dr. Bastian, and, believe, had advised him not to publish

until he had made quite sure of his ground. This question
and the preparation of the course of Elementary Biology

led him to carry on a series of investigations lasting over two
years, which took shape in a paper upon " Penicillium,
Torula, and Bacterium,"2 first read in Section D at the British
Association, 1870; and in his article on " Yeast " in the

Contemporary Review for December 1872. He laboriously
repeated Pasteur's experiments, and for years quantity of
II
               J.

                                             3
                                                 3

                                                     it

                                                                               3
                                                                                                :

                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                           .
flasks and cultures used in this work remained at South

Kensington, until they were destroyed  in  the  eighties.                                                                                     Of
this work Sir Hooker writes to him
                                       --

You have made an immense leap in the association of forms,

and cannot but suppose you approach the final solution. . .

have always fancied that  was rather brains and boldness,

than eyes or microscopes that the mycologists wanted, and that

there was more brains in Berkeley's crude discoveries than in the

See p. 376, sag,  Quart. Jonrn. Micr. Sci., 1870, x. pp. 355-362.
                    Rev. W. F. Berkeley.

33-  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                  chap, xx1v

very best of the French and German microscopic verifications of
them, who filch away the credit of them from under Berkeley's nose,
and pooh-pooh his reasoning, but for which we should be, as we

were.

      In his Presidential Address, "Biogenesis and Abiogenesis"

{Coll. Ess. viii. p. 229), he discussed the rival theories of
spontaneous generation and the universal derivation of life
from precedent life, and professed his belief, as an act of

philosophic faith, that at some remote period, life had arisen
out of inanimate matter, though there was no evidence that
anything of the sort had occurred recently, the germ theory
explaining many supposed cases of spontaneous generation.
The history of the subject, indeed, showed " the great

tragedy of Science -- the slaying of a beautiful hypothesis by
an ugly fact -- which is so constantly being enacted under the
eyes of philosophers," and recalled the warning " that it is one

thing to refute a proposition, and another to prove the truth
of a doctrine which, implicitly or explicitly, contradicts that

proposition."
      Two letters to Dr. Dohrn refer to this address and to

the meeting of the Association.

                                    Jermyn Street, April 30, 1870.

I     My dear Wh1rlw1nd      I-- have received  your two letters ; and
   was just revolving in my                     meet your wishes in
                             mind how best to

regard to the very important project mentioned in the first, when the

second arrived and put me at rest.
I I Iand
      hope need not say how heartily enter      "inStotataiollnsyo"u1r   views,
                                                                        carried
     how glad I shall be to see your plan for

into effect. Nothing could have a greater influence upon the pro
gress of zoology.

     A plan was set afoot here some time ago to establish a great

marine Aquarium at Brighton by means of a company.                      They
asked me to be their President, but I declined, on the ground that
I did not desire to become connected with any commercial under

Itaking. What has become of the scheme I do not know, but
doubt whether it would be of any use to you, even if any connection

could be established.

      As soon as you have any statement of your project ready, send

it to me and I will take care that it is brought prominently before

     Dr. Dohrn succeeded in establishing such a zoological " station ' at Naples.

1870 SPONTANEOUS GENERATION                                                                 333

the British public so as to stir up their minds. And then we will

have a regular field-day about it in Section D at Liverpool.

      Let me know your new ideas about insects and vertebrata as

soon as possible, and I promise to do my best to pull them to pieces.

What between Kowalewsky and his Ascidians, Mikluko-Maclay

and his Fish-brains, and you and your Arthropods, I am becom

einjagcuslcahtiwonind"elDsuocnhnteigr,   and  spend      my time     mainly  in that pious
                                        und   Blitz,"    in which,   as you  Iknow,
                                                                                            seek

relief. Then   there is our                   --Bastian   who   is  making  living  things  by
the following  combination
                                        :

               R Ammoniae Carbonatis

                          Sodae Phosphatis
                          Aquae destillatae

                                      quantum sufficit
                          Caloris 150° Centigrade
                          Vacui perfectissimi

                           Patientiae.

Transubstantiation will be nothing to this if it turns out to be

true, and you may go and tell your neighbour Januarius to shut up
I Ihis shop as the heretics mean to outbid him.
Now     think that the best service                                 can render to all you

enterprising young men is to turn devil's advocate, and do my best

to pick holes in your work.

    IBy the way Mikluko-Maclay1 has been here; have seen a
good deal of him, and he strikes me as a man of very considerable
capacity and energy. He was to return to Jena to-day.
My friend Herbert Spencer will be glad to learn that you
Iappreciate his book.
                                        have been his devil's advocate for a number
Iof years, and there is no telling how many brilliant speculations
have been the means of choking in an embryonic state.

    IMy wife does not know that am writing to you, or she would
say apropos of your last paragraph that you are an entirely un

reasonable creature in your notions of how friendship should be

manifested, and that you make no allowances for the oppression

                of the                  work entailed by what Jean Paul calls a
               Haus."                       hope may live to see you with at least
I Ia"nTdochextehravuostllieons
ten children, and then my wife and I will be avenged. Our children

will be married and settled by that time, and we shall have time to

write   --eveErvyerdayyouarns dfagietthfvuellryy,  wroth  when  you  do not reply immedi
ately.                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

All are well, the children so grown you will not know them.

     1 Mikluko-Maclay, a Russian naturalist, and close friend of Haeckel's, who
later adventured himself alone among the cannibals of New Guinea.

334                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                             chap, xxiv

                                                                         July 18, 1870.

"  ToMchyterdkeraanrkhDeiot h"rnun--deNrowtwhiitchhstaIndlainbogur,theI   severe symptoms   of
                                                                         find myself equal
                                                                                            to

reply to your letter.

     The British Association meets in September on the 14th day of
that month, which falls on a Wednesday.  Of course, if you come

you shall be provided for by the best  specimen of Liverpool             h"osdpisi
tality. We have ample provision for    the entertainment of the

tinguished foreigner."

     Will you be so good as to be my special ambassador with
Haeckel and Gegenbaur, and tell them the same thing ? It would
give me and all of us particular pleasure to see them and to take

care of them.

     But I am afraid that this wretched war will play the very deuce
with our foreign friends. If you Germans do not give that crowned
swindler, whose fall I have been looking for ever since the coup
d'etat, such a blow as he will never recover from, I will never for

give you. Public opinion in England is not worth much, but at

present, it is entirely against France.  Even the Times which

generally] contrives to be on the baser side of a controversy is at
present on the German side. And my daughters announced to me

yesterday that they had converted a young friend of theirs from the
                                                                         ayuoutu. mn.A--ll
French   to the    German side, which is one gained for                                     look
forward   with     great pleasure to seeing you in the                                      Ever
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

      In addition to this address on September 14, he
read his paper on " Penicillium," etc., in Section D on the
20th. Speaking on the 17th, after a lecture of Sir J.
Lubbock's on the " Social and Religious Condition of the
Lower Races of Mankind," he brought forward his own ex
periences as to the practical results of the beliefs held by the
Australian savages, and from this passed to the increasing
savagery of the lower classes in great towns such as Liver

pool, which was the great political question of the future,
and for which the only cure lay in a proper system of

education.

      The savagery underlying modern civilisation was all the

more vividly before him, because one evening he, together

with Sir J. Lubbock, Dr. Bastian, and Mr. Samuelson, were

taken by the chief of the detective department round some
of the worst slums in Liverpool. In thieves' dens, doss

 1870 PRESIDENT OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION 335

 houses, dancing saloons, enough of suffering and criminality
 was seen to leave a very deep and painful impression. In
 one of these places, a thieves' lodging-house, a drunken man
 with a cut face accosted him and asked him whether he
 was a doctor. He said "yes," whereupon the man asked
 him to doctor his face. He had been fighting, and was
terribly excited. Huxley tried to pacify him, but if it had
 not been for the intervention of the detective, the man

 would have assaulted him. Afterwards he asked the

detective if he were not afraid to go alone in these places,
and got the significant answer, " Lord bless you, sir, drink
and disease take all the strength out of them."

      On the 2 1st, after the general meeting of the Associa
 tion, which wound up the proceedings, the Historical Society
of Lancashire and Cheshire presented a diploma of honorary
membership and a gift of books to Huxley, Sir G. Stokes,
and Sir J. Hooker, the last three Presidents of the British
Association, and to Professors Tyndall and Rankine and
Sir J. Lubbock, the lecturers at Liverpool. Then Huxley
was presented with a mazer bowl lined with silver, made
from part of one of the roof timbers of the cottage occupied
as his headquarters by Prince Rupert during the siege of
Liverpool. He was rather taken aback when he found the
bowl was filled with champagne ; after a moment, however,
he drank " success to the good old town of Liverpool," and
with a wave of his hand, threw the rest on the floor, saying,
" I pour this as a libation to the tutelary deities of the

town."

      The same evening he was the guest of the Sphinx Club
at dinner at the Royal Hotel, his friend Mr. P. H. Rathbone
being in the chair, and in proposing the toast of the town
and trade of Liverpool, declared that commerce was a greater
civiliser than all the religion and all the science ever put
together in the world, for it taught men to be truthful and
punctual and precise in the execution of their engagements,
and men who were truthful and punctual and precise in the
execution of their engagements had put their feet upon the
first rung of the ladder which led to moral and intellectual

elevation.

      There were the usual clerical attacks on the address,

336              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                      chap, xxiv

among the rest a particularly violent one from a Unitarian

pulpit. Writing to Mr. Samuelson  on October 5 he

says :--

     IBe not vexed on account of the godly. They will have their
way.    found Mr.     's sermon awaiting me on my return home.
It is an able paper, but like the rest of his cloth he will not take the

trouble to make himself acquainted with the ideas of the man whom
he opposes. At least that is the case if he imagines be brings me
under the range of his guns.

      On October 2 he writes to Tyndall :--

      I have not yet thanked you properly for your great contribution
                                                    " On
to the success of our meeting    [i.e. his lecture   the   the Scientific
                               was nervous over           passage about
Uses of the Imagination."] I

the clergy, but those confounded parsons seem to me to let you say

anything while they bully me for a word or a phrase. It's the old
story, "one man may steal a horse while the other may not look

over the wall."

      Tyndall was not to be outdone, and replied :--

    IThe parsons know very well that I mean kindness ; if correct
them I do it in love and not in wrath.

      One more extract from a letter to Dr. Dohrn, under

date of November 1 7. The first part is taken up with a
long and detailed description of the best English microscopes

and their price, for Dr. Dohrn wished to get one ; and my

father volunteered to procure it for him. The rest of the

letter has a more general interest as giving his views on the

great struggle between France and Germany then in pro
                      of militarism, and above                         of
gress,  his distrust                                all,  his  hatred
lying,  political as  much as any other :--

    IThis wretched war is doing infinite mischief, but do not see

what Germany can do now but carry it out to the end.

    I began to have some sympathy with the French after Sedan,

but the Republic lies harder than the Empire did, and the whole
country seems to me to be rotten to the core. The only figure
which stands out with anything like nobility or dignity, on the
French side, is that of the Empress, and she is only a second-rate
Marie-Antoinette. There is no Roland, no Corday, and apparently

no man of any description.

                  THE LONDON SCHOOL BOARD                                       337

     The Russian row is beginning, and the rottenness of English

administration will soon, I suppose, have an opportunity of display
ing itself. Bad days are, I am afraid, in store for all of us, and the
worst for Germany if it once becomes thoroughly bitten by the

military  m" ahdapdpoyg.family  "  is  flourishing  and  was  afflicted,  even  over
     The
its breakfast, when I gave out the news that you had been ill.

The wife desires her best remembrances, and we all hope you

are better.

The high pressure under which Huxley worked, and

his abundant output, continued undiminished through the

autumn and winter. Indeed, he was so busy that he

postponed his Lectures to Working Men in London from

October      to   February         1871.     On October       3  he lectured in
Leicester     on  " What is         to be  Learned from
                                                              a  Piece of Coal,"
a parallel lecture to that of 1868 on "A Piece of Chalk."

--"OnEaxtstihnuebcjtec1At7ntiwhmhaiaclsnhdinhte2e4rhmtahdedhimaetaedleebcettpuwreeecdeunliaaRrlteyptBhiilisermsoiwnagnndhabmByirldosnogn"

study ; and on December 29 he was at Bradford, and
lectured at the Philosophical Institute upon " The Forma
tion of Coal " (Coll. Ess. viii.).

      He was also busy with two Royal Commissions ; still, at
whatever cost of the energy and time due to his own investiga

tions and those additional labours by which he increased his

none too abundant income, he felt it his duty, in the interests

of his ideal of education, to come forward as a candidate for

the newly-instituted School Board for London. This was

the practical outcome of the rising interest in education all

over the country   ; on its working,                he felt, depended moment
                   fostering of the                 moral and physical well-
ous issues -- the

being of the nation ; the quickening of its intelligence and

the maintenance of its commercial                   "  supremacy. Withal,        he
desired to temper " book-learning                       with something of       the

direct knowledge of nature : on the one hand, as an admir

able instrument of education, if properly applied ; on the
other, as preparing the way for an attitude of mind which

could appreciate the reasons for the immense changes already

beginning to operate in human thought.

Moreover, he possessed a considerable knowledge of the
VOL. I
                                                                          Z

338   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                               chap, xxiv

working of elementary education throughout the country,

owing to his experience as examiner under the Science and

Art Department, the establishment of which he describes as
" a measure which came into existence unnoticed, but which
will, I believe, turn out to be of more importance to the

welfare of the people than many political changes over
which the noise of battle has rent the air " (Scientific
Education, 1869 ; Coll. Ess. iii. p. 131).

      Accordingly, though with health uncertain, and in the

midst of exacting occupations, he felt that he ought not to

stand aside at so critical a moment, and offered himself for

election in the Marylebone division with a secret sense

that rejection would in many ways be a great relief.

      The election took place on November 29, and Huxley

came out second on the poll. He had had neither the means
nor the time for a regular canvass of the electors. He was

content to address several public meetings, and leave the

result to the interest he could awaken amongst his hearers.

His views were further brought before the public by the

action of the editor of the Contemporary Review, who, before
the election, " took upon himself, in what seemed to him to

be the public interest," to send to the newspapers an extract
from Huxley's article, " The School Boards : what they can

do, and what they may do," which was to appear in the

December number.

     In this article will be found (Coll. Ess. iii. p. 374) a full
account of the programme which he laid down for himself,

and which to a     --greoaft   extent he saw carried into effect, in                         its
fourfold division             physical drill and discipline, not only                        to

--improve the physique of the children, but   as an introduction

to all other sorts of training of domestic    training, especially
                                             of moral and social
for girls --of education in the knowledge

laws  aagnadinstthewehnagt agisemeveinl --t oafndthfeinaalflfye,ctoiofnisntefollrecwtuhaatl  is good
and                                                                                          training.

And it should be noted that he did not only regard intellec

tual training from the utilitarian point of view ; he insisted,
e.g. on the value of reading for amusement as " one of its
most valuable uses to hard-worked people."

      Much as he desired that this intellectual training should
be efficient, the most cursory perusal of this article will show

1870 THE LONDON SCHOOL BOARD 339

how far he placed the moral training above the intellectual,
which, by itself, would only turn the gutter-child into " the

subtlest of all the beasts of the field," and how wide of the

mark is the cartoon at this period representing him as

the professor whose panacea for the ragged children was to
" cram them full of nonsense."

In the third section are also to be found his arguments

for the retention of Bible-reading in the elementary schools.

He reproached extremists of either party for confounding the

science, theology, with the affection, religion, and either

crying for more theology under the name of religion, or
demanding the abolition of " religious " teaching in order to
get rid of theology, a step which he likens to " burning your

ship to get rid of the cockroaches."
     As regards his actual work on the Board, I must express

my thanks to Dr. J. H. Gladstone for his kindness in
supplementing my information with an account based partly

on his own long experience of the Board, partly on the

reminiscences of members contemporary with my father.

The Board met first on December 15, for the purpose

of electing a Chairman. As a preliminary, Huxley pro

posed and carried a motion that no salary be attached to

the post. He was himself one of the four members proposed

for the Chairmanship  ; but the choice of the Board fell  upon
Lord Lawrence. In
                      the words of Dr. Gladstone :--

Huxley at once took a prominent part in the proceedings, and

continued to do so till the beginning of the year 1872, when ill-

health compelled him to retire.

At first there was much curiosity both inside and outside the

Board as to how Huxley would work with the old educationists, the
clergy, dissenting ministers, and the miscellaneous body of eminent
men that comprised the first Board. His antagonism to many of the

methods employed in elementary schools was well known from his

various discourses, which had been recently published together under
Ithe title of Lay Sermons, Addresses, and Reviews.
                                                    watched his course
Iwith interest at the time ; but for the purpose of this sketch have

lately sought information from such of the old members of the Board

as are still living, especially the Earl of Harrowby, Bishop Barry, the

Rev. Dr. Angus, and Mr. Edward North Buxton, together with Mr.

Croad, the Clerk of the Board. They soon found proof of his great

energy, and his power of expressing his views in clear and forcible

language ; but they also found that with all his strong convictions

34°      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, xx1v

and lofty ideals he was able and willing to enter into the views of
others, and to look at a practical question from its several sides.
He could construct as well as criticise. Having entered a public
arena somewhat late in life, and being of a sensitive nature, he had
scarcely acquired that calmness and pachydermatous quality which
is needful for one's personal comfort ; but his colleagues soon came
to respect him as a perfectly honest antagonist or supporter, and one
who did not allow differences of conviction to interfere with friendly

intercourse.

     The various sections of the clerical party indeed looked

forward with great apprehension to his presence on the
Board, but the more liberal amongst them ventured to find

ground for hoping that they and he would not be utterly
opposed so far as the work of practical organisation was
concerned, in the declaration of his belief that true education
was impossible without " religion," of which he declared that

all that has an unchangeable reality in it is constituted by
the love of some ethical ideal to govern and guide conduct,
" together with the awe and reverence, which have no kinship
with base fear, but rise whenever one tries to pierce below
the surface of things, whether they be material or spiritual."
And in fact a cleavage took place between him and the
seven extreme " secularists " on the Board (the seven cham
pions of unchristendom, as their opponents dubbed them) on
the question of the reading of the Bible in schools (see below,

P- 342).1

      One of the earliest proposals laid before the Board was
a resolution to open the meetings with prayer. To this

considerable opposition was offered ; but a bitter debate was
averted by Huxley pointing out that the proposal was ultra
vires, inasmuch as under the Act constituting the Board the

sbineuclsfliunjodeisensepdfro--ayrewrw.ahsicmhHaedtreheeutypoownaellroaewreetqmhuepiosuwitsieoerneod--f aitnocowmmheimcehitttehdeeid-rhoinommot

to those who wished to unite in a short service before the

weekly meetings, an arrangement which has continued to the

present time.

     "it1 Bishop Barry calls particular attention to his attitude on this point,
"because," he says,  is (I think) often misunderstood. In the Life (for
instance) of the Right Honourable W. H. Smith, published not long ago, Huxley
is supposed, as a matter of course, to have been the leader of the Secularist

party."

1870-71        THE EDUCATIONAL LADDER                                                                                                 341

At the second meeting, on December 21, he gave notice

of a motion to appoint a committee to consider and report

upon the scheme of education to be adopted in the Board

Schools.

This motion came up for consideration on February

15, 187 1. In                   he said that such
mittee ought toisintroducing                                                                     com
                                           it,
                 consider--
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                              a
      First, the general nature and relations of the schools which

may come under the Board. Secondly, the amount of time to be
devoted to educational purposes in such schools and Thirdly, the
subject-matter of the instruction or education, or teaching, or
training, which to be given in these schools.

      But this, by itself, he continued, would be incomplete.

At one end of the scale he advocated Infant schools, and
urged a connection with the excellent work of the Ragged
schools. At the other end he desired to see continuation

schools, and ultimately some scheme of technical education.

A comprehensive scheme, indeed, would involve an educa

tional ladder from the gutter to the university, whereby
children of exceptional ability might reach the place for

which nature had fitted them.

The subject matter of elementary instruction must be

limited by what was practicable and desirable. The revised

code had done too little      had taught the use of the tools
          is

                                                   ;

                                      it

                                                     a;

                                                                   I
                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                              is
of learning, while denying all sorts of knowledge on which to

exercise them afterwards. And here incidentally he repudi

ated the notion that the English child was stupid on the

contrary, he thought the two finest intellects in Europe at

this time were the English and the Italian.    of " the first
      In particular he advocated the teaching  do not mean

elements of physical science " " by which

teaching astronomy and the use   of the globes,     and   the rest
                                little instruction       the child
of the abominable trash -- but                       of

in what the nature of common things about him what

their properties are, and in what relation this actual body of
man stands to the universe outside of it." " There
                                                                                                                                      no

form of knowledge or instruction in which children take

greater interest."
      Drawing and music, too, he considered, should be taught

542           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                            chap, xx1v

in every elementary school, not to produce painters or
musicians, but as civilising arts. History, except the most
elementary notions, he put out of court, as too advanced for

children.
      Finally, he proposed a list of members to serve on the

Education Committee in a couple of sentences with a
humorous twist in them which disarmed criticism. " On a
former occasion I was accused of having a proclivity in

favour of the clergy, and recollecting this, I have only given
them in this instance a fair proportion of the representation.

     however, have omitted any gentleman who thinks he

ought to be on the committee, can only assure him that

above all others should have been glad to put him on."
      That day week the committee was elected, about third

of the members of the Board being chosen to serve on it.

At the same meeting, Dr. Gladstone continues --
If,                      I
                I
                      I

                                                                                                  <a

     Mr. W. H. Smith, the well-known member of Parliament, pro

posed,  and Mr.       SatemaucehlingM--orl"eyT,hatM, .Pin.,    seconded,                       a   resolution in
favour  of religious                                         the schools                       provided by the

Board, the Bible shall be read, and there shall be given therefrom

such explanations and such instruction in the principles of religion

and morality as are suited to the capacities of children," with certain

provisos.  Several antagonistic amendments were proposed                                                       but
                                                                                                  a

                                                                                                            ;
Prof. Huxley gave his support to Mr. Smith's resolutions, which,

however, he thought might be trimmed and amended in way that
the Rev. Dr. Angus had suggested. His speech, defining his own

position, was very remarkable one. He said was assumed in the
           a                                                    it

public mind that this question of religious instruction was little
                                                                                                  a

family quarrel between the different sects of Protestantism on the

one hand, and the old Catholic Church on the other. Side by side
with this much shivered and splintered Protestantism of theirs, and

with the united fabric of the Catholic Church (not so strong
temporally as she used to be, otherwise he might not have been

addressing them at that moment) there was third party growing upa
into very considerable and daily increasing significance, which had

nothing to do with either of those great parties, and which was
pushing its own way independent of them, having its own religion

and its own morality, which rested in no way whatever on the
foundations of the other two." He thought that " the action of the

Board should be guided and influenced very much by the considera

tion of this third great aspect of things," which he called the

scientific aspect, for want of better name.
      " had been very justly said that they had
     It                                                                                        great mass of low

                                                    a
                                                                                            a

                   BIBLE READING IN SCHOOLS                                                          343

half-instructed population which owed what little redemption from

ignorance and barbarism it possessed mainly to the efforts of the
clergy of the different denominations. Any system of gaining the
attention of these people to these matters must be a system

connected with, or not too rudely divorced from their own system of
belief. He wanted regulations, not in accordance with what he
himself thought was right, but in the direction in which thought was
moving." He wanted an elastic system, that did not oppose any
obstacle to the free play of the public mind.

      Huxley voted against all the proposed amendments, and in
favour of Mr. Smith's motion. There were only three who voted

against it ; while the three Roman Catholic members refrained from
voting. This basis of religious instruction, practically unaltered, has

remained the law of the Board ever since.

      There was a controversy in the papers, between Prof. Huxley
and the Rev. W. H. Freemantle, as to the nature of the explanations

of the Bible lessons. Huxley maintained that it should be purely
grammatical, geographical, and historical in its nature ; Freemantle
that it should include some species of distinct religious teaching, but
not of a denominational character.*

      In taking up this position, Huxley expressly disclaimed

any desire for a mere compromise to smooth over a difficulty.
He supported what appeared to be the only workable plan

under the circumstances, though it was not his ideal ; for he

would not have used the Bible as the agency for introducing
the religious and ethical idea into education if he had been

dealing with a fresh and untouched population.
      His appreciation of the literary and historical value of

the Bible, and the effect it was likely to produce upon the
school children, circumstanced as they were, is sometimes
misunderstood to be an endorsement of the vulgar idea of it.
But it always remained his belief " that the principle of strict

secularity in State education is sound, and must eventually
prevail." 2

     1 Cp. extract from Lord Shaftesbury's journal about this correspondence
(Life and Work of Lord Shaftesbury, iii. 282). "Professor Huxley has this
I'definition of morality and religion : ' Teach a child what is wise, that is morality.
Teach him what is wise and beautiful, that is religion                            Let no one henceforth
despair of making things clear and of giving explanations                        !"
     - As a result of some remarks of Mr. Clodd's on the
                                                                                 matter in Pioneers  of
Evol"utIinont,hea  correspondent, some time after, wrote to him
                                                                                 cis follows :--
Laishly, the
                   report upon State  Education              in New    Zealand,  1895, drawn up by R.
                   following occurs,                        Professor   Huxley
                                      p. 13 :-- '                                gives me leave to state

his  ompiunsiot nevteontbuealtlyhatprtehveaipl.r' in"ciple  of strict secularity in State education  is sound,
and

344         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                            CHAP. XXIV

      His views on dogmatic teaching in State schools, may
be gathered further from two letters at the period when an

--attempt was being made to upset the so-called compromise.

     The first appeared in the Times of April 29, 1893 :

     Sir-- In a leading article of your issue of to-day you state, with
perfect accuracy, that I supported the arrangement respecting

religious instruction agreed to by the London School Board in 1871,
                           But you go on to say that " the persons
and hitherto undisturbed.
who framed the rule " intended it to include definite teaching of such

theological dogmas as the Incarnation.

    I cannot say what may have been in the minds of the framers of
the rule ; but, assuredly, if I had dreamed that any such interpreta

tion could fairly be put upon                                    should have opposed the
                                               it,
arrangement to the best of my ability.
     In fact, year before                       I
                                                    I
     Contemporary Review,
                                                            it I

                                                                        is
the         a              the rule            was framed wrote an article in
                            entitled
               I                               " The School Boards-- what they

can do and what they may do," in which argued that the terms of

the Education Act excluded such teaching as                                 now proposed to

include. And support my contention by the following citation

from speech delivered by Mr. Forster at the Birkbeck Institution in:a

1870 --

         have the fullest confidence that in the reading and explainingI
of the Bible what the children will be taught will be the great truths
of Christian life and conduct, which all of us desire they shouldI
know, and that no efforts will be made to cram into their poor little
minds theological dogmas which their tender age prevents them fromis

understanding.-- am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

     Hodbslea, Eastbourne, April 28.

     The second to a correspondent who wrote to ask him

whether adhesion to the compromise had not rendered

nonsensical the teaching given in certain lesson upon the
                                               is
finding of                                        it
had read
                                                              a
            thteheveyrosue,th"fuHloJwesus      in the temple, when, after they

                                                  that ye sought            me        Wist ye
                                               Father's business              "
                                                                                       teacher
not that must be about my                                                   ?    the
         I                                                                          ?

                                                                                                  is
asked the children the name of Jesus' father and mother, and
accepted the simple answer, Joseph and Mary. Thus the

point of the story, whether regarded as reality or myth,

slurred over, the result                       perplexity, the teaching, in short,
is
              a

                                           is
bad, apart from all theory as to the value of the Bible.

     In letter to the Chronicle, which he forwarded, this

               LETTERS ON BIBLE TEACHING                                                        345

correspondent suggested a continuation of the " incriminated

lesson " :--

     Suppose, then, that an intelligent child of seven, who has just

heard it read out that Jesus excused Himself to His parents for dis
appearing for three days, on the ground that He was about His

Father's   business,  "aPnldeashea,s    then learned   that     His father's name was
Joseph,   had said                      teacher, was   this
     cLhoilrdd'srejoPirnasy, er"?A"nd                           t"heYeJse."sus        that    gave us
the                                     The teacher    answers                                suppose
the                                      is it to His   father                       And

                                                                Joseph that he bids us
pray when we say Our Father?" But there are boys of nine, ten,

eleven years in Board schools, and many such boys are intelligent

eitn. oug"hPletoastea,keteaucphethr,e"  subject of the lesson where the instructor left
                                        asks one of these, "what business was it that

Jesus had to do for His father Joseph ? Had he stopped behind to
get a few orders ? Was it true that He had been about Joseph's
business? And, if it was not true, did He not deserve to be
punished ? "

     Huxley replied on October 16, 1894: --
    IDear S1r -- I am one with you in hating " hush up " as I do all

other forms of lying ; but venture to submit that the compromise

Iof 1 87 1 was not a "hush-up." If had taken it to be such I
                                                                                              And more
should have refused to have anything to do with                                      it.

                                                                                           iIf
specifically,  said in letter to the Times (see Times, 29th April
          I
            I

                      ;

                           if a
                                 I
1893) at the beginning of the present controversy, that                                         had

thought the compromise involved the obligatory teaching of such

dogmas as the Incarnation should have opposed it.

     There has never been the slightest ambiguity about my position

in this matter in fact, you will turn to one paper on the School
Board written by me before my election in 1870, think you will
                                                                a
find that anticipated the pith of the present discussion.
     The persons who agreed to the compromise, did exactly what allI

sincere men who agree to compromise, do. For the sake of the
enormous advantage of giving the rudiments of decent education

to several generations of the people, they accepted what was practi

cally an armistice in respect of certain matters about which the

contending parties    were              abnsoowlute"lydenirroeucnocnecidlab" le.the  treaty,  doubtless
     The clericals    have

thinking they can get new one more favourable to themselves.
                      a

                            I
     From my point of view, am not sure that might not be well
                                                                it

for them to succeed, so that the sweep into space which would befall

them in the course of the next twenty-three years might be complete

and final.

     As to the case you put to me -- permit me to continue the

dialogue in another shape.

346                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                     chap, xxiv

    Boy. -- Please, teacher,       if  Joseph was   not   JeIsush'avfaethesrouagnhdt       God
                                   "   Thy father   and
was, why did Mary say,                                                                      thee
sorrowing ? " How could            God not know where Jesus was ?
                                                                                           How

couldTeaHceherb.e--soWrrhyen? Jesus says Father, he means God ; but when
MaryBosya.y--s            she means    Joseph.
                father,  Mary didn't   know God     was   Jesus'  father ?
                Then                                 the   story   of the
     Teacher. -- Oh, yes, she did (reads
                                                                            Annun

ciation).   --  It  seems  to  me  very  odd  that  Mary used language                which
      Boy.

she knew was not true, and taught her son to call Joseph father.

But there's another odd thing about her. If she knew her child was

God's son, why was she alarmed about his safety? Surely she might

have trusted God to look after his own son in a crowd.

     I know of children of six and seven who are quite capable of

following out such a line of inquiry with all the severe logic of a

moral sense which has not been sophisticated by pious scrubbing.

     I could tell you of stranger inquiries than these which have been

made by children in endeavouring to understand the account of the

miraculous conception.

    Whence I conclude that even in the interests of what people

are pleased to call Christianity (though it is my firm conviction

that Jesus would have repudiated the doctrine of the Incarnation
as warmly as that of the Trinity), it may be well to leave things as

they are.
     All this is for your own eye. There is nothing in substance that
I have                                 I do not feel called
         not said publicly, but                              counptoronvetrosys. a--y itI  over
again,  or get mixed up in an          utterly wearisome     T. H. Huxley.                 am,

yours faithfully,

      However, he was unsuccessful in his proposal that a
selection be made of passages for reading from the Bible ;

the Board refused to become censors. On May 10 he
raised the question of the diversion from the education of
poor children of charitable bequests, which ought to be
applied to the augmentation of the school fund. In speak
ing to this motion he said that the long account of errors

and crimes of the Catholic Church was greatly redeemed by

the fact that that Church had always borne in mind the

education of the poor, and had carried out the great demo
cratic idea that the soul of every man was of the same value
in the eyes of his Maker.

      The next matter of importance in which he took part

was on June 14, when the Committee on the Scheme

              COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION                                                      347

of Education  presented                its first                     report.  Dr. Gladstone

--writes :

     It was a very voluminous document.                                The Committee had met
every week, and, in the words of Huxley,                             " what it had endeavoured

to do, was to obtain some order and system and uniformity in

important matters, whilst in comparatively unimportant matters they

thought some play should be given for the activity of the bodies of

men into whose hands the management of the various schools
should be placed." The recommendations were considered on
June 21 and July 12, and passed without any material alterations
or additions. They were very much the same as existed in the best

elementary schools of the period. Huxley's chief interest, it may be
surmised, was in the subjects of instruction. It was passed that, in

infants' schools there should be the Bible, reading, writing, arith

metic, object lessons of a simple character, with some such exercise
of the hands and eyes as is given in the Kindergarten system, music,
and drill. In junior and senior schools the subjects of instruction

were divided into two classes, essential and discretionary, the

essentials being the Bible, and the principles of religion and

morality, reading, writing, and arithmetic, English grammar and

composition, elementary geography, and elementary social economy,
history of England, the principles of book-keeping in senior schools,

with mensuration in senior boys' schools. All through the six

years there were to be systematised object lessons, embracing a
course of elementary instruction in physical science, and serving as

an introduction to the science examinations conducted by the
Science and Art Department. An analogous                             course of instruction
                                                                     In moving " that the
was adopted for elementary evening schools.

formation of science and art classes in connection with public

elementary schools be                  seanycionugr,ag"edTheandcoufnactrilyitatceodu,"ld  Huxley con
tended strongly for                                                                       not possibly
           a
                                  it,
commit greater error than in establishing schools in which the

direct applications of science and art were taught before those who

entered    the classes were grounded in                               the principles       of physical
science."     In advocating object lessons                           he said, " The       position that

science was now assuming, not only in relation to practical life, but

to thought, was such that those who remained entirely ignorant of

even its elementary facts were in wholly unfair position as re
                                       a

garded the world of   thought          and the world                 of practical life."  It
was, moreover, " the  only real        foundation for                technical education."

      Other points in which he was specially concerned were,
that the universal teaching of drawing was accepted, against
an amendment excluding girls that domestic economy was
made discretionary substitute for needlework and cutting
a

                                                                  ;

348          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                            chap, xxiv

out ; while he spoke in defence of Latin as a discretionary
subject, alternatively with a modern language. It was true

that he would not have proposed it in the first instance, not
because a little Latin is a bad thing, but for fear of " over

loading the boat." But, on the other hand, there was great

danger if education were not thrown open to all without
Ifrestriction.
                      it be urged that a man should be content

with the state of life to which he is called, the obvious

        How do you know what your state of life, unless
retort  is,           ?

                1           is
                                        is
you try what you are called to There no more frightfula
" sitting on the safety valve " than in preventing men of

ability from having the means of rising to the positions for

which they, by their talents and industry, could qualify

themselves.

     Further, although the committee as whole recommended
                               a

that discretionary subjects should be extras, he wished them

to be covered by the general payment, in which sense the

report was amended.

     This Education Committee (proceeds Dr. Gladstone) continued
to sit, and on November 30 brought up report in favour of the
Prussian system of separate class-rooms, to be tried in one school as
                               a
                                           it
an experiment. This reads curiously now that   has become the

system almost universally adopted in the London Board Schools.
     In regard to examinations Huxley strongly supported the view

that the teaching in all subjects, secular or sacred, should be

periodically tested.

     On December 13, Huxley raised the question whether the

selection of books and apparatus should be referred to his Com

mittee or to the School Management Committee, and on January

10 following, small sub-committee for that object was formed.

Almost immediately after this he retired from the Board.

     One more speech of his, which created              great stir at
                               it
the time, must be referred to, namely his expression of
                                                     a
undisguised hostility to the system of education maintained
by the Ultramontane section of the Roman Catholics.* In

October the bye- laws came up for consideration.                  One of

them provided that the Board should pay over direct to

denominational schools the fees for poor children.                This

he opposed on the ground that  would lead to repeated

             Cp. "Scientific Education," Coll. Ess. iii. p. III.

1871-72   ULTRAMONTANES AND EDUCATION                                          349

contests on the Board, and further, might be used as a tool

by the Ultramontanes for their own purposes. Believing that
their system as set forth in the syllabus, of securing complete
possession of the minds of those whom they taught or con

trolled, was destructive to all that was highest in the nature

of mankind, and inconsistent with intellectual and political

liberty, he considered it his earnest duty to oppose all

measures which would lead to assisting the Ultramontanes

in their purpose.

      Hereupon he was vehemently attacked, for example, in
the Times for his " injudicious and even reprehensible tone "
which " aggravated the difficulties his opponents might have

in giving way to him." Was this, it was asked, the way to

get Roman Catholic children to the Board schools ? Was
it not an abandonment of the ideal of compulsory education ?

     It is hardly necessary to point out that the question was

not between the compulsory inclusion or exclusion of poor
children, but between their admission at the cost of the

Board to schools under the Board's own control or outside

it. In any case the children of Roman Catholics were not

likely to get their own doctrines taught in Board Schools,

and without this they declared they would rather go without

education at all.                                    For a year he had con

      Early in 1872 Huxley retired.                 broke down, and feeling
tinued at this task ; then his health               no personal motives of
                                                    to himself, for what he
that he had done his part, from
ambition, but rather at some cost

held to be national ends, he determined not to resume the

work after the rest which was to restore him to health, and

madeDrh. isGlraedssigtnoanteionwritdeesfin:i--te.

      On   February 7  "arelleutctetranotlfy       resignation  was received from him,
stating   that he was                               compelled,  both on account of his

health and his private affairs, to insist on giving up his seat at the

Board." The Rev. Dr. Rigg, Canon Miller, Mr. Charles Read, and
                                                    deep regret. In the words
Lord     L"atwheryenwceereexlporseisnsged    their                             of Dr.
Rigg,                                      one of   the most valuable members  of the

Board, not only because of his intellect and trained acuteness, but

because of his knowledge of every subject connected with culture

and education, and because of his great fairness and impartiality

with regard to all subjects that came under his observation."

35"       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap, xxiv

     Though Huxley quitted the Board after only fourteen months'

service, the memory of his words and acts combined to influence it
long afterwards. In various ways he expressed his opinion on
educational matters, publicly and privately. He frequently talked

with me on the subject at the Athenaeum Club, and shortly after

my election to the Board in 1873, I find it recorded in my diary

that he insisted strongly on the     necessity of   our building    infants'
                                      intellectual  teaching, but  what we
schools, -- " people may talk about

principally want is the moral teaching."

     As to the sub-committee on books and apparatus, it did little at

first, but at the beginning of the second Board, 1873, it became

better organised under the presidency of the Rev. Benjamin Waugh.

At the commencement of the next triennial term I became the

chairman, and continued to be such for eighteen years. It was our

duty to put into practice the scheme of instruction which Huxley

was mainly instrumental in settling. We were thus able indirectly
to improve both the means and methods of teaching. The subjects
of instruction have all been retained in the Curriculum of the
London School Board, except, perhaps, " mensuration " and " social
economy." The most important developments and additions have
been in the direction of educating the hand and eye. Kindergarten

methods have been promoted. Drawing, on which Huxley laid

more stress than his colleagues generally did, has been enormously

extended and greatly revolutionised in its methods. Object lessons

and elementary science have been introduced everywhere, while

shorthand, the use of tools for boys, and cookery and domestic

economy for girls are becoming essentials in our schools. Evening

continuation schools have lately been widely extended. Thus the

impulse given by Huxley in the first months of the Board's existence

has been carried forward by others, and is now affecting the minds

of the half million of boys and girls in the Board Schools of

London, and indirectly the still greater number in other schools

throughout the land.

      I must further express my thanks to Bishop Barry for
permission to make use of the following passages from the

notes contributed by him to Dr. Gladstone :--

    I had the privilege of being a   member of his committee for

defining the curriculum of study,    and here also --the religious
Iquestion being disposed of-- I was able to follow much the same

line as his, and remember being struck not only with his clear

headed ability, but with his strong commonsense, as to what was

useful and practicable, and the utter absence in him of doctrinaire

aspiration after ideal impossibilities. There was (I think) very
little under his chairmanship of strongly-accentuated difference of

opinion.

1871 HIS ATTITUDE TOWARDS ADVERSARIES                                           351

     In his action on the Board       generally I was struck with these
three characteristics :-- First, his  remarkable power of speaking -- I
may say, of oratory -- not only on
                                      his own scientific subjects, but on

all the matters, many of which were of great practical interest and

touched the     deepest    feelings,  which   came before the Board at that
critical time.           he chosen            we heard at that time that he
                  Had                 -- and
was considering whether he should choose -- to enter political life,

it would certainly have made him a great power, possibly a leader,

in that sphere. Next, what   kcinodns--tanatlysingauplpaer arcsanindohuisr  writings, even
those of the most polemical                                                 in recognising

truths which might seem to militate against his own position, and a

Ipower of understanding and respecting his adversaries' opinions, if
only they were strongly and conscientiously held.                           remember his

saying on one occasion that in his earlier experience of sickness and

suffering,  he had found that the most        effective helpers             of   the higher
humanity    were not the scientist or the     philosopher, but              "   the parson,

and the sister, and the Bible woman."         Lwaasstly",  the strong           common
sense, which enabled him to see what                       within the           range of

practical politics," and to choose for the cause which he had at

heart the line of least resistance, and to check, sometimes to rebuke,

intolerant obstinacy even on the side which he was himself inclined

to favour. These qualities over and above his high intellectual

ability made him, for the comparatively short time that he remained

on the Board, one of its leading members.

No less vivid is the impression left, after many years,

upon another member of the first School Board, the Rev.

Benjamin Waugh, whose life-long work for the children is so

well known. From his recollections, written for the use of

Professor Gladstone,     it is my privilege to quote the following

paragraphs :--

    I was drawn to him most, and was influenced by him most,

because of his attitude to a child. He was on the Board to
establish schools for children. His motive in every argument, in
all the fun and ridicule he indulged in, and in his occasional anger,
was the child. He resented the idea that schools were to train
either congregations for churches or hands for factories. He was
on the Board as a friend of children. What he sought to do for
the child was for the child's sake, that it might live a fuller, truer,

worthier life. If ever his great tolerance with men with whom he

differed on general principles seemed to fail him for a moment, it

was because they seemed to him to seek other ends than the child

for its own sake. . . .

     His contempt for the idea of the world into which we were born

being either a sort of clergyhouse or a market-place, was too com

           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                             chap, xxiv

plete to be marked by any eagerness. But in view of the market

-place idea he was the less calm.

     Like many others who had not yet come to know in what high

esteem he held the moral and spiritual nature of children, I had

thought he was the advocate of mere secular studies, alike in the

nation's schools, and in its families. But by contact with him, this
soon became an impossible idea. In very early days on the Board
Ia remark
           had made                             to a  mu"tTuaelll  friend which  implied this unjust
idea was repeated to                            him.               Waugh that     he talks too fast,"
Iwas his message to me.
                                                      was not long in finding out that this was

a very just reproof. . . .

     The two things in his character of which I became most

conscious by contact with him, were his childlikeness and his
consideration for intellectual inferiors. His arguments were as

transparently honest as the arguments of a child. They might or

might not seem wrong to others, but they were never untrue to

himself. Whether you agreed with them or not, they always added

greatly to the charm of his personality. Whether his face was

lighted by his careless and playful humour or his great brows were

shadowed by anger, he was alike expressing himself with the

honesty of a child. What he counted iniquity he hated, and what

he counted righteous he loved with the candour of a child. . . .
     Of his consideration for intellectual inferiors I, of course, needed

a large share, and it was never wanting. Towering as was his

intellectual strength and keenness above me, indeed above the

whole of the rest of the members of the Board, he did not con

descend to me. The result was never humiliating. It had no

pain of any sort in                             He was too spontaneous and liberal with his
I
                                           it.
consideration to seem conscious that he was showing any. There
were many men of religious note upon the Board, of some of whom

could not say the same.

In his most trenchant attacks on what he deemed wrong in

principles, he never descended to attack either the sects which held

them or the individuals who supported them, even though occasion
ally much provocation was given him. He might not care for peace

with some of the theories represented on the Board, but he had

certainly and at all times great good-will to men.

As a speaker he was delightful. Few, clear, definite, and calm

as stars were the words he spoke. Nobody talked whilst he was

speaking. There were no tricks in his talk. He did not seem to

be trying to persuade you of something. What convinced him,
that he transferred to others. He made no attempt to misrepresent
those opposed to him. He sought only to let them know himself.

. Even the sparkle of his humour, like the sparkle of diamond,
.
    .

                                                         I it
                                                                                                                     a
was of the inevitable in him, and was as fair as was enjoyable.

As one who has tried to serve children, look back upon

                  OFFERED A SEAT IN PARLIAMENT                                                           353

having fallen in with Mr. Huxley as one of the many fortunate
circumstances of my life. It taught me the importance of making
acquaintance with facts, and of studying the laws of them. Under
his influence it was that I most of all came to see the practical
Ivalue of a single eye to those in any pursuit of life.
                                                                            saw what

effect they had on emotions of charity and sentiments of justice,

and what simplicity and grandeur they gave to appeals.

My last conversation with him was at Eastbourne some time in
1887 or 1888. I was there on my society's business. "Well,
               you 're still
W" aYuegsh,",                 bu"syandaboyuotu  your babies,"       was his greeting.
               I responded,                     are still busy      about your pigs."

One of the last discussions at which he was present at the School

Board for London had been on the proximity of a piggery to a

site for a school,  Gbaelnaeddnsthmoinsaedae?tt"aicnkhetohnecoMnNtirni.neutGeeeldan.dthsto"nCTeehnaotuntryt.mheanG"ahDdaaosreyntoheue

swine had just
still believe in

greatest intellect in Europe. He was born to be a leader of men,

Ifand he has debased himself to be a follower of the masses.

working men were to-day to vote by a majority that two and two

made five, to-morrow Gladstone would believe                           and find them
               it
                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                     it
reasons for which they had never dreamed of." He said slowly

and with sorrow.

     Two more incidents are connected with his service on

the School Board. A wealthy friend wrote to him in the

most honourable and delicate terms, begging him, on public

grounds, to accept £400        year to enable him to continue
his work on the Board.        He refused the offer as simply
                              it a

                                                                 ;
and straightforwardly as      was made his means, though

not large, were sufficient for his present needs.

Further, good many people seemed to think that he
                  a
meant to use the School Board as stalking horse fora It
                                                :                                                        a
                         II
political career. To one      of those                       awhourged him  to                           stand
for Parliament, he replied
                              thus --

                                                                       Nov. 18, 187 1.

Dear Sir -- has often been suggested to me that should seek
                                                I
                                                      ;

                                                             is I
                                                                 I
for seat in the House of Commons indeed                                have reason to
a

    I
think that many persons suppose that entered the London School

Board simply as road to Parliament.                                    entirely without

But assure you that this supposition

foundation, and that have never seriously entertained any notion

of the kind.
     The work of the School Board involves me in no small sacrifices

of various kinds, but went into with my eyes open, and with the
                              it
VOL.           I                                                                 2  A

354         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                       chap, xx1v

clear conviction that it was worth while to make those sacrifices for

the sake of helping the Education Act into practical operation. A

year's experience has not altered that conviction ; but now that the

Imost difficult, if not the most important, part of our work is done,
Ibegin to look forward with some anxiety to the time when shall be
relieved of duties which so seriously interfere with what I regard as

my proper occupation.
     No one can say what the future has in store for him, but at

Ipresent know of no inducement, not even the offer of a seat in the
House of Commons, which would lead me, even temporarily and
Ipartially, to forsake that work again. --
                                                             am, dear sir, yours very
faithfully,
                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

      I give here a letter to me from Sir Mountstuart Grant
Duff, who also at one period was anxious to induce him to

enter Parliament :--

                                                             Lexden Park, Colchester,

                                                             4th November 1898.

    Dear Mr. Huxley -- I have met men who seemed to me to
Ipossess powers of mind even greater than those of your father -- his

friend Henry Smith for example ; but never met any one who

gave me the impression so much as he did, that he would have

gone to the front in any pursuit in which he had seen fit to engage.

Henry Smith had, in addition to his astonishing mathematical

genius, and his great talents as a scholar, a rare faculty of persuasive
ness. Your father used to speak with much admiration and some

amusement of the way in which he managed to get people to take

his view by appearing to take theirs ; but he never could have been

a power in a popular assembly, nor have carried with him by the
Iforce of his eloquence, great masses of men.
                                                             do not think that
your father, if he had entered the House of Commons and thrown

himself entirely into political life, would have been much behind

Gladstone as a debater, or Bright as an orator. Whether he had

the stamina which are required not only to reach but to retain a

foremost place in politics, is another question. The admirers of

Prince      Bismarck     would say              that the   daily prayer of  tchceeusrt."atesm" aLne
should      be for "    une bonne               digestion   et un mauvais

mauvais     cctheeur""   does  not appear        to        be "de toute necessite," but,
assuredly,              bonne  digestion "      is.         Given an adequate and equal

amount of ability in two men who enter the House of Commons
together, it is the man of strong digestion, drawing with
                                                                            it,
                                                                                    it
                                                                                 as

usually does, good temper and power of continuous application, who

will go     fumritghhetst.haveGla"dgstivoenne,    who was    inferior to  your father in
intellect,                                      points " to  the Dragon   of Wantley who

devoured church steeples. Your father could certainly not have

1871 LETTER FROM SIR M. E. GRANT DUFF 355

done so, and in that respect was less well equipped for a life-long

parliamentary struggle.
Iwith
        should   like to have seen       these two pitted against each other
        that "  substantial piece       of furniture " between them behind
Iwhich Mr. Disraeli was glad to shelter himself.
                                                                          should like to

have heard them discussing some subject which they both thoroughly

understood. When they did cross swords the contest was like

nothing that has happened in our times save the struggle at

Omdurman. It was not so much a battle as a massacre, for

Gladstone had nothing but a bundle of antiquated prejudices

wherewith to encounter your father's luminous thought and exact

Iknowledge.     daresay, that Mr. William Rathbone, then M.P.

     You know,

for Liverpool, once proposed to your father to be the companion of

my first Indian journey in 1874-5, he, William Rathbone, paying all

your father's expenses.* Mr. Rathbone made this proposal when he
Ifound that Lubbock, with whom travelled a great deal at that
Iperiod of my life,

your father had
                 was     u"nYaebsle."   to go with me     to India. How wish
                said                       My journey,     as it was, turned out

most instructive and delightful ; but to have lived five months with

a man of his extraordinary gifts would have been indeed a rare piece
of good fortune, and I should have been able also to have contributed

to the work upon which you are engaged a great many facts which

would have been of interest to your readers. You will, however,
I am sure, take the will for the deed, and believe me, very sincerely
                                                          M. E. Grant Duff.
yours,

1 Of this, Dr. Tyndall wrote to Mrs. Huxley :-- " I want to tell you a pleasant
conversation I had last night with Jodrell. He and a couple more want to
send Hal with Grant Duff to     India,                    of his  duties  here  and  of all
necessities ghostly and bodily  there   !t"aking  charge

CHAPTER XXV

1871

"In 1 87 1 " (to quote Sir M. Foster), " the post of Secretary

to the Royal Society became vacant through the resignation

of William Sharpey, and the Fellows learned with glad

surprise that Huxley, whom they looked to rather as a

not distant President, was willing to undertake the duties

of the office." This office, which he held until 1880, in

volved him for the next ten years in a quantity of anxious

work, not only in the way of correspondence and administra

tion, but the seeing through the press and often revising

every biological paper that the Society received, as well as

reading those it rejected. Then, too, he had to attend every

general, council, and committee meeting, amongst which

latter the Challenger Committee was a load in itself. Under

pressure of all this work, he was compelled to give up active

connection with other learned societies.*

Other work this year, in addition to the School Board,

included courses of lectures at the London Institution in
January and February, on " First Principles of Biology,"
and from October to December on " Elementary Physio
logy " ; lectures to Working Men in London from February

to April, as well as one at Liverpool, March 25, on
" The Geographical Distribution               "
                                 of  Animals        two  lectures
                                                 ;

at the Royal Institution, May 12 and 19, on "Berkeley
on Vision," and the " Metaphysics of Sensation " (Coll.
                                                         " Fossil
Ess. vi.). He published one  paleontological paper,      Wright,
Vertebrates from the Yarrow  Colliery " (Huxley and

1 See Appendix II.

              ADMINISTRA TIVE NIHILISM                               357

ItroishschAocoalmda. sTterrasns--.).thaItn   June and  July he       gave 36 lectures
                                            important
                                                       business       of teaching the

teachers that they might set about scientific instruction

in the right way.* He attended the British Association

at Edinburgh, and laid down his Presidency ; he brought
out his " Manual of Vertebrate Anatomy," and wrote a
review of "Mr. Darwin's Critics" (see p. 363, sq), while on

October 9 he  delivered an address                     at the Midland Institute,
Birmingham,   on " Administrative                      Nihilism " (Coll. Ess. i.).

This address, written between September 21 and 28, and

remodelled later, was a pendant to his educational campaign

on the School Board ; a re-statement and justification of
what he had said and done there. His text was the various

objections raised to State interference with education ; he
dealt first with the upholders of a kind of caste system, men

who were willing enough to raise themselves and their sons

to a higher   social plane,                 but objected on          likseemwiis-teh--eolnoegaictalyl
grounds to    anyone from                     below doing

satirising them and their notions of gentility, and quoting

Plato in support of his contention that what is wanted
even more than means to help capacity to rise is " machinery
by which to facilitate the descent of incapacity from the

higher strata to the  lower." He repeats in new phrase his
warning " that every  man of high natural ability, who is both

ignorant and miserable, is as great a danger to society as a

rocket without a stick is to people who fire it. Misery is a

match that never goes out ; genius, as an explosive power,
beats gunpowder hollow : and if knowledge, which should

give that power guidance, is wanting, the chances are not

small that the rocket will simply run a-muck among friends

and foes."

Another class of objectors will have it that government

should be restricted to police functions, both domestic and

foreign, that any further interference must do harm.

Suppose, however, for the sake of argument, that we accept the

proposition that the  nfeugnacttivioenscoomf mthaendSmtateentm--ay"  be properly summed
up in the one great                                                  Thou shalt not allow
Iany man to interfere with the liberty of any other man," -- am

                      1 See pp. 362, 376, sq.

358          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, xxv

unable to see that the logical consequence is any such restriction of

the power of Government, as its supporters imply. If my next-door

neighbour chooses to have his drains in such a state as to create a

Ipoisonous atmosphere, which breathe at the risk of typhoid and

diphtheria, he restricts my just freedom to live just as much as if
he went about with a pistol threatening my life ; if he is to be

allowed to let his children go unvaccinated, he might as well be
allowed to leave strychnine lozenges about in the way of mine ; and

if he brings them up untaught and untrained to earn their living, he
is doing his best to restrict my freedom, by increasing the burden of
taxation for the support of gaols and workhouses, which I have to

pay.

     The higher the state of civilisation, the more completely do the
actions of one member of the social body influence all the rest, and
the less possible is it for any one man to do a wrong thing without
interfering, more or less, with the freedom of all his fellow-citizens.
So that, even upon the narrowest view of the functions of the State,
it must be admitted to have wider powers than the advocates of the

police theory are disposed to admit.

     This leads to a criticism of Mr. Spencer's elaborate
comparison of the body politic to the body physical, a
comparison vitiated by the fact that " among the higher

physiological organisms there is none which is developed
by the conjunction of a number of primitively independent

existences into a complete whole."

     The process of social organisation appears to be comparable, not
so much to the process of organic development, as to the synthesis

of   the chemist, by  awghgricehgatiinondsep--enidnentwheilcehmenetaschareelegmraednutallyretbauinilst
up    into complex

an independent individuality, though held in subordination to the

whole.

     It is permissible to quote a few more sentences from this

address for the sake of their freshness, or as illustrating the

writer's ideas.

     Discussing toleration, " I cannot discover that Locke

fathers the pet doctrine of modern Liberalism, that the
toleration of error is a good thing in itself, and to be

reckoned among the cardinal virtues." 1
     Of Mr.
             Spencer's   comparison of    the               State  to  a   living
body in the  interests  of individualism
                                          :--

        1 This bears on his speech against Ultramontanism.  (See p. 348.)

                OFFICIAL HONOURS                                                                                359

I suppose it is universally agreed that it would be useless and

absurd for the State to attempt to promote friendship and sympathy

between man and man directly. But I see no reason why, if it be

Iotherwise expedient, the State may not do something towards that
end indirectly. For example,      can conceive the existence of an

Established Church which should be a blessing to the community.

A Church in which, week by week, services should be devoted, not
to the iteration of abstract propositions in theology, but to the

setting before men's minds of an ideal of true, just, and pure living ;

a place in which those who are weary of the burden of daily cares

should find a moment's rest in the contemplation of the higher life

which is possible for all, though attained by so few ; a place in which
the man of strife and of business should have time to think how

small, after all, are the rewards he covets compared with peace and

charity. Depend upon            such Church existed, no one would
              is
                                  it,

                               if

                                                     a
                                                                                                             a
seek to disestablish it.

The sole order of nobility which, in my judgment, becomes

philosopher,  the rank which he holds in the estimation of his

fellow-workers, who are the only competent judges in such matters.

Newton and Cuvier lowered themselves when the one accepted an
idle knighthood, and the other became a baron of the empire. The

great men who went to their graves as Michael Faraday and George

Grote seem to me to have understood the dignity of knowledge

better when they declined all such meretricious trappings.*

     The usual note of high pressure recurs in the following
letter, written to thank Darwin for his new work, The
Descent of Man, and Sexual Selection.

                                  Jermyn Street, Feb. 20, 187 1.

My dear Darwin -- Best thanks for your new book, copy of
                                                                                                            Ia
which find awaiting me this morning. But wish you would not

bring your books out when am so busy with all sorts of things.
You know can't show my face anywhere in society without having

read them -- and consider too bad.
I
    I
           I

                      it
                             is

                        it I

                                                     i.,

                                           I
No doubt, too,                  full of suggestions just like that have hit

upon by chance at p. 212 of vol.  which connects the periodicity

of vital phenomena with antecedent conditions.
      Fancy lunacy, &c., coming out of the primary fact that one's »th

On the other hand, he thought right and proper for officials, in scientific
it
      1

                              ;
                                                                it

                                                                                                         a
as in other departments, to accept such honours, as giving them official power
and status. In his own case, while refusing all simple titular honours, he

accepted the Privy Councillorship, because, though incidentally carrying a title,
was an office and an office in virtue of which                                                              man of science might, in

theory at least, be called upon to act as responsible adviser to the Government,

should special occasion arise.

360           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, xxv

Iancestor lived between tide-marks !                       declare it's the grandest
Isuggestion I have heard of for an age.

         have been working like a horse for the last fortnight, with the
Ifag end of influenza hanging about me --and
                                                                         am improving under

the process, which shows what a good tonic work is.

    I shall try if I can't pick out from " Sexual Selection " some

practical     hint for the improvement   Boofargdu.t--terE-bvaebriTey.so, uHra.snHdfauitbxhrfluienllygy,.in  a
resolution      thereupon at the School

     This year also saw the inception of a scheme for a series
of science primers, under the joint editorship of Professors

Huxley, Roscoe, and Balfour Stewart. Huxley undertook

the Introductory Primer, but it progressed slowly owing to
pressure of other work, and was not actually finished till

1880.                                    26 Abbey Place, June 29, 187 1.

    My dear Roscoe -- If you could see the minutes of the Pro

ceedings of the Aid to Science Commission, the Contagious Diseases
Commission and the School Board (to say nothing of a lecture to
Schoolmasters every morning) you would forgive me for not having

Iwritten to you before.                                                  hasten to
                                                                         it,I
      But now that have had a little time to look at                                I
say that your chemical primer appears to me to be admirable -- just

what wanted.
    I
          isenclose the sketch for my Primer primus. You will see the

bearing of rough as is. When touches upon chemical matters,
              it,        it
                      a           a

                                            it
it  would deal with them in more rudimentary fashion than yours

does, and only prepare the minds of the fledglings for you.

    I       send you copy of the Report of the Education Committee,

the resolutions based on which am now slowly getting passed by
                                    I

our Board. The adoption of (c) among the essential subjects has,
                                  oMf Ealnecmheesnttearr?y--ScEievnecre
hope, secured the         future                                          in London. Cannot
you get as much          done in                                         yours faithfully,
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

     Sir Charles Lyell was now nearly 74 years old, and

though he lived four years longer, age was beginning to tell
                                                        A
even upon     his        vigorous   pleotwteerrs.--        chance        meeting        with
him elicited  the        following
                         I
                                                     :26 Abbey Place, July 30, 1871.

ing  My dear Darw1n -- met Lyell in Waterloo                             Place to-day walk
     with Carrick Moore -- and although what you                         said the other day

                         LETTERS TO DOHRN                                                              361

had prepared me, I was greatly shocked at his appearance, and still

more at his speech. There is no doubt it is affected in the way you

describe, and the fact gives me very sad forebodings about him. The

Fates send me a swift and speedy end whenever my time comes. I

think there is nothing so lamentable as the spectacle of the wreck

of a once clear and vigorous mind !

    I am glad Frank enjoyed his visit to us. He is a great favourite
here, and I hope he will understand that he is free of the house. It

was  the greatest fun  to see Jess and Mady 1 on                their dignity                 with him.
                       can tell you. Miss Mady                  was especially                 sublime.
No   more kissing, I

     Six out of our seven children have the whooping-cough.                                            Need

I say therefore that the wife is enjoying herself?

      With best regards  to Mrs.           mDea. r--wiEnvearndyoyuorus r    daughter          (and     affec
tionate love to Polly)   believe                                          faithfully,
                                                                          T. H. Huxley.

      The purchase of the microscope, already referred to, was

the subject of another letter to Dr. Dohrn, of which only the

concluding paragraph about the School Board, is of general

interest. Unfortunately the English microscope did not

turn out   a success, as                    compared to the work                         of the      Jena
opticians  : this is the "                 optical Sadowa " of the                      second      letter.

      I fancy from what you wrote to my wife that there has been

some report of my doings about the School Board in Germany. So

I send you the number of the Contemporary Review 2 for December
Ithat you may see what line have really taken. Fanatics on both
Isides abuse me, so I think I must be right.
      When is this infernal war to come to           an end ?                           h--oldWiftohr  Ger
                                                     make peace.                                       best
many as always, but I wish she would
wishes for the New Year. -- Ever yours,                                   T. H. Huxley.

                                                     26 Abbey Place, July 7, 1871.

      My dear Dohrn-- I have received your packet, and I will take

care  "  tHhaatppyyouFramReilpyo"rt    is   duly presented to   the        Association.                But
the                                  in    general, and myself   in       particular, are              very

sorry you cannot come to Scotland. We had begun to count upon

and the children are immeasurably disgusted with the Insects
it,

        I

                        2
                                               1

                                    I
                                                                  I
which will not lay their eggs at the right time.

      You have become acclimatised to my bad behaviour in the

matter of correspondence, so                         shall not apologise for being in

arrear.    have been frightfully hard-worked with two Royal Com

missions and the School Board all sitting at once, but am none

           Containing                Aged 13 and     "12ThreespSecchtiovoelly.Boards,"  etc.
                                     his article on

3fl-                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                   chap, xxv

the worse, and things are getting into shape -- which is a satisfaction
Ifor one's trouble.
                        look forward hopefully towards getting back to

my ordinary work next year.
     Your penultimate letter
glimpses into your new views  was very interesting          to  me, but      t--he
                              which it affords are        very  tantalising
and I want more. What you say about the development of the
                             still more nearly brought " Donner und
IAmnion in your last letter   shall look out anxiously for your new

Blitz ! " to my lips-- and

facts. Lankester tells me you have been giving lectures on your
Iviews.  wish I had been there to hear.
     He
Biology  is helping me as Demonstrator in a       c--ouwrsieth  of instruction in
                                                                 the view of con
         which I am giving to Schoolmasters

verting them into scientific missionaries to convert the Christian

Heathen of these islands to the true faith.

    I am afraid that the English microscope turned out to be by no

means worth the money and trouble you bestowed upon it. But
the glory of such an optical Sadowa should count for something !
II wish that you would get your Jena

his best objectives if the price is not
                                             man to supply me with one of
                                             ruinous -- should like to com

pare it with my TV in. of Ross.1                  whooping-cough -- Pertussis
         All our children but Jessie              it.--It is distressing enough
--    I   don't know your German       have  the
                                      name   for
for them, but, I think, still worse for their mother. However, there
Iare no serious symptoms, and hope the change of air will set them

right.

         They all join with me in best wishes and regrets that you are

not      c--omEivneg.r     Won't you change  your mind ?    We start on July
31st.                   yours faithfully,                 T. H. Huxley.

     The summer holiday of 1871 was spent at St. Andrews,
a place rather laborious of approach at that time, with all
the impedimenta of a large and young family, but chosen on
account of its nearness to Edinburgh, where the British
Association met that year. I well remember the night
journey of some ten or eleven hours, the freshness of the

early morning at Edinburgh, the hasty excursion with my
father up the hill from the station as far as the old High
Street. The return journey, however, was made easier by
the kindness of Dr. Matthews Duncan, who put up the whole

family for a night, so as to break the journey.

      We stayed at Castlemount, now belonging to Miss Paton,

         1 In this connection it may be noted that he himself invented a combination

microscope for laboratory use, still made by Crouch the optician.  (See Journ.
Quectett Micr. Club, vol. v. p. 144.)

             MR. DARWIN'S CRITICS                 363

just opposite the ruined castle. Among other visitors to

St. Andrews known to my father were Professors Tait and

Crum Brown, who inveigled him into making trial of the
" Royal and Ancient " game, which then, as now, was the

staple resource of the famous little city. I have a vivid

recollection of his being hopelessly bunkered three or four

holes from home, and can testify that he bore the moral

strain with more than usual calm as compared with the

generality of golfers. Indeed, despite his naturally quick

temper and his four years of naval service at a time when,

perhaps, the traditions of a former generation had not

wholly died out, he had a special aversion to the use of

expletives ; and the occasional appearance of a strong word

in his letters must be put down to a simple literary use

which he would have studiously avoided in conversation.

A curious physical result followed the vigour with which

he threw himself into the unwonted recreation. For the

last twenty years his only physical exercise had been walk

ing, and now his arms went black and blue under the

muscular strain, as if they had been bruised.

But the holiday was by no means spent entirely in

recreation. One week was devoted to the British Associa

tion ; another to the examination of some interesting fossils

at Elgin ; while the last three weeks were occupied in
writing two long articles, " Mr. Darwin's Critics," and the
address entitled " Administrative Nihilism " referred to above

(p. 3 5 7), as well as a review of Dana's Crinoids. The former,
which appeared in the Contemporary Review for November

(Coll. Ess.  120-187) was  review of (1) Contributions to
I

           ii.
                                               a

                                                                              1,

                                                             2, I

                                                                                                              a
the Theory of Natural Selection, by A. R. Wallace, (2) The
Genesis of Species, by St. George Mivart, F.R.S., and (3) an
article in the Quarterly for July 187 on Darwin's Descent

of Man.
" am Darwin's bull-dog," he once said, and the Quarterly
Reviewer's treatment of Darwin, " alike unjust and un
becoming," provoked him into immediate action. " am
                                                  "
about sending you," he writes to Haeckel on Nov.

little review of some of Darwin's critics. The dogs have been

barking     at his heels   too much of late." Apart from this
stricture,  however, he   notes the " happy change " which " has

#4        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY               chap, xxv

come over Mr. Darwin's critics. The mixture of ignorance

and insolence which at first characterised a large proportion
of the attacks with which he was assailed, is no longer
the sad distinction of anti-Darwinian criticism." Notes
too " that, in a dozen years, the Origin of Species has
worked as complete a revolution in biological science as the

Principia did in astronomy --and it has done so, because,

in the words of Helmholtz, it contains an 'essentially new
creative thought.' "

     The essay is particularly interesting as giving evidence
of his skill and knowledge in dealing with psychology, as

against the Quarterly Reviewer, and even with such an

unlikely subject as scholastic metaphysics, so that, by an
odd turn of events, he appeared in the novel character of a
defender of Catholic orthodoxy against an attempt from

within that Church to prove that its teachings have in reality
always been in harmony with the requirements of modern
science. For Mr. Mivart, while twitting the generality of
men of science with their ignorance of the real doctrines of

his church, gave a reference to the Jesuit theologian Suarez,
the latest great representative of scholasticism, as following

St. Augustine in asserting, not direct, but derivative creation,
that is to say, evolution from primordial matter endued with
certain powers. Startled by this statement, Huxley investi
gated the works of the learned Jesuit, and found not only

that Mr. Mivart's reference to the Metaphysical Disputations
was not to the point, but that in the " Tractatus de opere

sex Dierum," Suarez expressly and emphatically rejects this
doctrine and reprehends Augustine for asserting it.

    By great good luck (he writes to Darwin from St. Andrews)
there is an excellent library here, with a good copy of Suarez, in a
Idozen

of the
    big folios. Among these           dived,  "  to the great astonishment
    librarian, and looking into  them as         the careful robin eyes the
Idelver's toil " (vide Idylls), carried off the two venerable clasped

Ivolumes which were most promising.              of a defender of
                                                 mouth of his own
      So have come out in the new character
Catholic orthodoxy, and upset Mivart out of the

prophet.

      Darwin himself was more than pleased with the article,

and wrote enthusiastically (see Life and Letters, iii. 148-150).

                             BREAKDOWN IN HEALTH                             365

A few of his generous words may be quoted to show the

rate at which he valued his friend's championship.

      What a wonderful man you are to grapple with those old
metaphysico-divinity books. . . . The pendulum is now swinging

against our side, but I feel positive it will soon swing the other way ;

and no mortal man will do half as much as you in giving it a start

in the right direction, as you did at the first commencement.

     And again, after " mounting climax on climax," he con

tinues :-- " I must tell you what Hooker said to me a few
years ago. ' When I read Huxley, I feel quite infantile in

intellect.' "

     This sketch of what constituted his holiday -- and it was
not very much busier than many another holiday -- may

possibly suggest what his busy time must have been like.

     Till the end of the year the immense amount of work

did not apparently tell upon him. He rejoiced in it. In

December he remarked to his wife that with all his different

irons in the fire, he had never felt his mind clearer or his

vigour greater. Within a week he broke down quite

suddenly, and could               neither work  nor  think.        He refers to
this in the following
                                  letter :--

                                              Jermyn Street, Dec. 22, 1871.

My dear Johnny -- You are certainly improving. As a practi
                                              myself, I have read
tioner    inNatthuereu, se"  of   cold steel                       your letter in
to-day's                          Ehrfurcht   und Bewunderung."    And the best
                             mit

evidence of the greatness of your achievement is that it extracts this
expression of admiration from a poor devil whose brains and body

are in a colloid state, and who is off to Brighton for a day or two

this afternoon.

God be with thee, my son, and strengthen the contents of thy
gall-bladder !-- Ever thine,                         T. H. Huxley.

IPS. -- Seriously,                am glad that at last a protest has been raised

Iagainst the process of anonymous self-praise to which our friend is

g"ivQenu.arterlysp"okaertitcoleSomnithSptirhiet-raopthpeirngd. ay about that dose of it in the

             CHAPTER XXVI

                                1872

Dyspepsia, that most distressing of maladies, had laid firm

hold upon him. He was compelled to take entire rest for a

time. But his first holiday produced no lasting effect, and in

the summer he was again very ill. Then the worry of a trouble

some lawsuit in connection with the building of his new

house intensified both bodily illness and mental depression.

He had great fears of being saddled with heavy costs at

the moment when he was least    capable of meeting any new
                                afford another much-needed
expense -- hardly able even to

spell of rest. But in his case, as in others, at this critical

moment the circle of fellow-workers in science to whom he

was bound by ties of friendship, resolved that he should at

least not lack the means of recovery. In their name Charles

Darwin wrote him the following letter, of which it is difficult

to  say  whether it does  more  honour  to  him  who  sent   it  or
to  him  who received it
                          :--

                                        Down, Beckenham, Kent,
                                            April 23, 1873.

    My dear Huxley -- I have been asked by some of your friends

(eighteen in number) to inform you that they have placed through

Robarts, Lubbock & Company, the sum of £2 1 00 to your account
at your bankers. We have done this to enable you to get such

complete rest as you may require for the re-establishment of your

health ; and in doing this we are convinced that we act for the

public interest, as well as in accordance with our most earnest

desires. Let me assure you that we are all your warm personal

Iffriends, and that there is not a stranger or mere acquaintance
amongst us.  you could have heard what was said, or could have

1872 AT GIBRALTAR                              367

Iread what was, as believe, our inmost thoughts, you would know

that we all feel towards you, as we should to an honoured and

much loved brother. I am sure that you will return this feeling,

and will therefore be glad to give us the opportunity of aiding you
in some degree, as this will be a happiness to us to the last day of
our lives. Let me add that our plan occurred to several of your

friends at nearly the same time and quite independently of one

another. -- My dear Huxley, your affectionate friend,
                                                           Charles Darwin.

     It was a poignant moment. " What have I done to
deserve this ? " he exclaimed. The relief from anxiety, so

generously proffered, entirely overcame him ; and for the
first time, he allowed himself to confess that in the long
struggle against ill-health, he had been beaten ; but, as he
said, only enough to teach him humility.

      His first trip in search of health was in 1872, when he
obtained two months' leave of absence, and prepared to go
to the Mediterranean. His lectures to women on Physiology
at South Kensington were taken over by Dr. Michael Foster,

who had already acted as his substitute in the Fullerian course
of 1 868. But even on this cruise after health he was not

altogether free from business. The stores of biscuit at Gibraltar
and Malta were infested with a small grub and its cocoons.
Complaints to the home authorities were met by the answer

that the stores were prepared from the purest materials
and sent out perfectly free from the pest. Discontent

among the men was growing serious, when he was re
quested by the Admiralty to investigate the nature of the
grub and the best means of preventing its ravages. In the
end he found that the biscuits were packed within range
of stocks of newly arrived, unpurified cocoa, from which
the eggs were blown into the stores while being packed,
and there hatched out. Thereafter the packing was done

in another place and the complaints ceased.

    IMy dear Dohrn-- It         Jan. 3, 1872.

" erkrankt," though beyond      am somewhat
          is true  enough that
          general
                   weariness, incapacity and disgust
Iwith things in general, do not precisely know what is the matter

with me.
I IUnwillingly,
          begin to suspect that overworked myself last
year. Doctors talk seriously to me, and declare that all sorts of

368  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       CHAP. XXVI

Iwonderful things will happen if do not take some more efficient
rest than I have had for a long time. My wife adds her quota of
persuasion and admonition, until I really begin to think I must do

something, if only to have peace.
    What if I were to come and look you up in Naples, somewhere

in February, as soon as my lectures are over ?

   IThe

dyspeptic
     "one-plate    system"     mgigruhtb--cluarreva  me    of my    incessant
     nausea. A     detestable                         of  Ephestia
                                                                    elatella --

has been devouring Her Majesty's stores of biscuits at Gibraltar.

have had to look   into his  origin, history, and best    way of circum
                   maybe I   shall visit Gibraltar and    perhaps Malta.
venting him-- and

In that case, you will see me turn up some of these days at the

Palazzo Torlonia.
     Herbert Spencer has written a friendly attack on " Administrative

Nihilism," which I will send you ; in the same number of the Fort

nightly there is an absurd epicene splutter on the same subject by

Mill's step-daughter, Miss Helen Taylor. I intended to publish the
paper separately, with a note about Spencer's criticism, but I have

had no energy nor faculty to do anything lately.

    ITell Lankester, with best regards, that I believe the teaching of

teachers in 1872 is arranged, and that shall look for his help in

due Tchouers"e.Happy family " have had the measles since you saw them,

but they are well again.

    I write in Jermyn Street, so they cannot send messages ; otherwise

there would be a chorus from them  and  the          wife of good wishes  and
                                                          T. H. Huxley.
kind remembrances. -- Ever yours,

      He left Southampton on January 1 1,in the Malta. On
the 1 6th, he notes in his diary, " I was up just in time to
see the great portal of the Mediterranean well. It was a

lovely morning, and nothing could be grander than Ape
Hill on one side and the Rock on the other, looking like

great lions or sphinxes on each side of a gateway."

     The morning after his arrival he breakfasted with

Admiral Hornby, who sent him over to Tangier in the

Helicon, giving the Bishop of Gibraltar a passage at the
same time. This led him to note down, " How the naval

men love Baxter and all his works." A letter from Dr.

Hooker to Sir John Hay ensured him a most hospitable
welcome, though continual rain spoiled his excursions.
                                                                          On

the 2 1st he returned to Gibraltar, leaving three days later in

the Nyanza for Alexandria, which was reached on February 1.

At that " muddy hole " he landed in pouring rain, and it

1872 IN EGYPT                      369

was not till he reached Cairo the following day that he at

last got into his longed-for sunshine.
     Seeing that three of his eight weeks had been spent in

merely getting to sunshine, his wife and doctor conspired to
apply for a third month of leave, which was immediately

granted, so that he now had time to go up the Nile as far
as Assouan in that most restful of conveyances, a dahabiah.

      Cairo more than answered his expectations. He stayed
here till the 13th, making several excursions in company
with Sir W. Gregory, notably to Boulak Museum, where he
particularly notes the " man with ape " from Memphis ; and,
of course, the pyramids, of which he remarks that Cephren's

is cased at the top with limestone, not granite. His note

-book and sketch-book show that he was equally interested

in archaeology, in the landscape and scenes of everyday life,

and in the peculiar geographical and geological features of

the country.      His first impression of the Delta was its

resemblance to Belgium and Lincolnshire. He has sections

and descriptions of the Mokatta hill, and the windmill mound,

with a general panorama of the surrounding country and an
explanation of it. He remarks at Memphis how the unburnt

bbfreroicmcokmeoNf iwlreehmicmahnuiedtheicnmhtiooeuflnaydssbtryaarteiftihemedadpedoetputeopsryiht a--dfraidgnmismteinnatgnsuyi--sphlaaacbneldes
notes the bearing of this fact on the Cairo mounds. It

is the same on his trip up the Nile ; he jots down the

geology whenever opportunity offered ; remarks, as indica
tion of the former height of the river, a high mud-bank

beyond Edfou, and near Assouan a pothole in the granite

fifty feet above the present level. Here is a detailed descrip
tion of the tomb of Aahmes ; there a river-scene beside the
pyramid of Meidum ; or vivid sketches of vulture and jackal

at a meal in the desert, the jackal in possession of the

carcass, the vulture impatiently waiting his good pleasure

for the last scraps ; of the natives working at the endless

shadoofs ;    of  a group      of listeners around a professional
story-teller      unfinished,    for he was observed sketching
              --

them.

Egypt left a profound impression upon him. His

artistic delight in it apart, the antiquities and geology

VOL. I                         2B

370              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, xxvi

of the country were a vivid illustration to his trained eye
of the history of man and the influence upon him of the
surrounding country, the link between geography and

history.
      He left behind him for a while a most unexpected

memorial of his visit. A friend not long after going to the

pyramids, was delighted to find himself thus adjured by a
donkey-boy, who tried to cut out his rival with " Not him
donkey, sah ; him donkey bad, sah ; my donkey good ; my

donkey 'Fessor-uxley donkey, sah." It appears that the
Cairo-donkey boys have a way of naming their animals after

celebrities whom they have borne on their backs.
      While at Thebes, on his way down the river again, he

received news of the death of the second son of Matthew

Arnold, to whom he wrote the following letter :--

                                                                          Thebes, March 10, 1872.

     My dear Arnold -- I cannot tell you how shocked I was to see in

the papers we received yesterday the announcement of the terrible

blow which has fallen upon Mrs. Arnold and yourself.

    Your poor boy looked such a fine manly fellow the last time I
saw him, when we dined at your house, that I had to read the
Iparagraph over and over again before could bring myself to believe

Iwhat read. And it is such a grievous opening of a wound hardly
Iyet healed that hardly dare to think of the grief which must have

I Ibowed down Mrs. Arnold and yourself.                                     If such
     hardly know whether                        do well in writing to you.

Itrouble  befel  emveenthseyrme paartehyve--ry   few   people in  the world from whom
          bear                                  but   you would   be one of them, and
   could
Itherefore hope that you will forgive a condolence which will reach
you so late as to disturb rather than soothe, for the sake of the

hearty affection which dictates it.
     IMy wife has told me of the very kind letter you wrote her.
Iwas thoroughly broken down when left England, and did not get
Imuch better until
                      fell into the utter and absolute laziness of
Idahabieh life. A month of that has completely set me up.
                                                                            am

as well as ever ; and though very grateful to Old Nile for all that he
has done for me -- not least for a whole universe of new thoughts

Iand pictures of life -- begin to feel strongly

                 ' the need of a world of men for me.'

But I am not going    to overwork myself again. Pray make my
                      to Mrs. Arnold, and believe me, always yours
kindest remembrances
                                                          T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

LETTER TO TYNDALL                                                371

      Leaving Assouan on March 3, and Cairo on the 18th,
he returned by way of Messina to Naples, taking a day at

Catania to look at Etna. At Naples he found his friend

Dohrn was absent, and his place as host was filled by his

father. Vesuvius was ascended, Pozzuoli and Pompeii
visited, and two days spent in Rome.

Hotel de Grande Bretagne, Naples,

                                       March 31, 1872.

ImpI eesdeituMtinooytunilt,dttoheoeafArrs1us8onTtunhyainnno.gdf aMslualLcr--hickheaY, orwJuioghrhe"nnvn;eyrIbyurGwtetiewluplrchinonieml,edeatto"leCltiCtatetairlreiorodthiIdofrufogemnhllott,imnrwyewhaeeictxnhh

Ossory of the Athenaeum, and a very pleasant fellow, Charles Ellis,

who had taken a dahabieh, and were about to start up the Nile.

IThey invited me to take possession of a vacant third cabin, and

accepted their hospitality, with the intention of going as far as

Thebes and returning on my own hook. But when we got to

Thebes I found there was no getting away again without much
more exposure and fatigue than I felt justified in facing just then,
and as my friends showed no disposition to be rid of me, I stuck to

the boat, and only left them on the return voyage at Rodu, which is

Ithe terminus of the railway, about 150 miles from Cairo.
      We had an unusually quick journey, as was little more than

a month away from Cairo, and as my companions made themselves
Ivery
                                                      particularly well  at
first,                                                afternoon " sort
agreeable, it was very pleasant.       w"aaslwnaoyts                     of
but by degrees the utter rest of this
I Ilife did its work, and am as well and vigorous now as ever was

in my life.

    I should have been home within a fortnight of the time I had
originally fixed. This would have been ample time to have enabled
Ime to fulfil all the
                       hatdhatma"deMybeLfoorredsst"arwtinoguld;  and
Donnelly had given                                               not
 engagements
me to understand

Itrouble their heads about my stretching my official leave. Never

theless was very glad to find the official extension (which was the
effect of my wife's and your and Bence Jones's friendly conspiracy)

awaiting me at Cairo. A rapid journey home via Brindisi might

have rattled my brains back into the colloid state in which they were
when I left England. Looking back through the past six months
I Ibegin to see that have had a narrow escape from a bad break
I-down, and am full of good resolutions.
IAs the first-fruit of these you see that have given up the school-
Iboard, and mean to keep clear of all that semi-political work here
I Iafter.
see that Sandon (whom  met at Alexandria) and Miller

373  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 chap, xxvi

have followed my example, and that Lord Lawrence is likely to go.

What a skedaddle !

     It seems very hard to escape, however. Since my arrival here,

on taking up the Times I saw a paragraph about the Lord Rectorship

of St. Andrews. After enumerating a lot of candidates for that
honour, the paragraph concluded, " But we understand that at

present Professor Huxley has the best chance." It is really too bad
Iif anyone has been making use of my name without my permission.
But I don't know what to do about it.   had half a mind to write
to Tulloch to tell him that I can't and won't take any such office,
but I should look rather foolish if he replied that it was a mere

Inewspaper report, and that nobody intended to put me up.
      Egypt interested me profoundly, but must reserve the tale of all
I did and saw there for word of mouth.  From Alexandria I went

to Messina, and thence made an excursion along the lovely Sicilian
coast to Catania and Etna. The old giant was half covered with

snow, and this fact, which would have tempted you to go to the top,

stopped me. But I went to the Val del Bove, whence all the great

lava streams have flowed for the last two centuries, and feasted my

eyes with its rugged grandeur. From Messina I came on here, and

had the great good fortune to find Vesuvius in eruption. Before

Ithis fact the vision of good Bence Jones forbidding much exertion

vanished into thin air, and on Thursday up went in company with

Ray Lankester and my friend Dohrn's father, Dohrn himself being
unluckily away. We had a glorious day, and did not descend till

late at night. The great crater was not very active, and contented

itself with throwing out great clouds of steam and volleys of red-hot

stones now and then. These were thrown towards the south-west

Iside of the cone, so that it was practicable to walk all round the

northern and eastern lip, and look down into the Hell Gate.

wished you were there to enjoy the sight as much as I did. No
lava was issuing from the great crater, but on the north side of this,

a little way below the top, an independent cone had established

itself as the most charming little pocket- volcano imaginable. It

could not have been more than 100 feet high, and at the top was a

crater not more than six or seven feet across. Out of this, with a

noise exactly resembling a blast furnace and a slowly-working high
pressure steam engine combined, issued a violent torrent of steam

and fragments of semi-fluid lava as big as one's fist, and sometimes

bigger. These shot up sometimes as much as 100 feet, and then

fell down on the sides of the little crater, which could be approached

within fifty feet without any danger. As darkness set in, the

spectacle was most strange. The fiery stream found a lurid reflection

in the slowly-drifting steam cloud, which overhung                            while the red-
     a
                                                                         it,
hot stones which shot through the cloud shone strangely beside the

quiet stars in moonless sky.

1872 LETTERS TO DOHRN                                                           373

Not from the top of this cinder cone, but from its side, a couple
of hundred feet down, a stream of lava issued. At first it was not

more than a couple of feet wide, but whether from receiving

accessions or merely from the different form of slope, it got wider

on its journey down to the Atrio del Cavallo, a thousand feet below.

The slope immediately below the exit must have been near fifty, but

the lava did not flow quicker than very thick treacle would do

under like circumstances. And there were plenty of freshly cooled

lava streams about, inclined at angles far greater than those which
Ithat learned Academician, Elie de Beaumont, declared to be possible.
Naturally    was ashamed of these impertinent          lava  currents,          and felt
inclined to  call them " Laves mousseuses."
ICourage, my friend, behold land !
Iwriting.                                            know you love my hand
             am off to Rome to-day, and this day-week, if all goes
I Iwell, shall be under my own roof-tree again. In fact
                                                                                hope to
                                                     It will be jolly to see your
fraecaechagaLionn. d--onEveorn    Saturday evening.             T. H. Huxley.
                                yours faithfully,

IMy best remembrances to Hirst if you see him before do.

My father reached home on April 6, sunburnt and

bearded almost beyond recognition, but not really well, for as

soon as he began work again in London, his old enemy

returned. Early hours, the avoidance of society and societies,

an hour's riding before starting at nine for South Kensington,

were all useless ; the whole year was poisoned until a special

diet prescribed by                Dr. (afterwards      Sairc)ureA. ndrIewremeCmlabrekr,
followed by another             trip abroad, effected

his saying once that he learned by sad experience that such

a holiday as that in Egypt was no good for him. What he

really required was mountain air and plenty of exercise.

The following letters fill up the outline of this period :--

                                26 Abbey Place, May 20, 1872.

My dear Dohrn--I suppose that you are now back in Naples,

perambulating the Chiaja, and looking ruefully on the accumulation
of ashes on the foundations of the aquarium ! The papers, at any

rate, tell us that the ashes of Vesuvius have fallen abundantly at

Naples. Moreover, that abominable municipality is sure to have

made the eruption an excuse for all sorts of delays.                            May the gods
give you an extra share of temper and patience !

      What an unlucky dog our poor Ray to go and get fever when
of all times in the world's history he should not have had it. How
I

                    is
                                                                           is,

                                                 I
ever, hear he better and on his way home.                                       hope he will be

374              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, xxvi

well enough when he returns not only to get his Fellowship, but to

help  I  me in my schoolmaster     work              in June  and July.
          was greatly disgusted  to miss              you in  Naples, but
                                                                           it was  some

thing to find your father instead. What a vigorous, genial youngster

of three score and ten he is. I declare I felt quite aged beside him.

We had a glorious day on Vesuvius, and behaved very badly by

Ileaving him at the inn for do not know how many hours, while we

Iwandered about the cone. But he had a very charming young lady
for companion, and possibly had the best of it.                        "    am very  s"orrtyo
                                                                           Good-bye
that at the last I went off in a hurry without saying
him, but I desired Lankester to explain, and I am sure he will have

sympathised with my anxiety to see Rome.
      I returned, thinking myself very well, but a bad fit of dyspepsia
Iseized me, and found myself obliged to be very idle and very care
Iful of myself-- neither of which things are to my taste. But am right
Iagain now, and hope to have no more backslidings.
am afraid I may not be able                                                However,

which case you will have to      to attend the                Brighton     meeting.     In
                                 pay us a visit,              wherever     we may    be --

where, we have not yet made up our minds, but it will not be so far

as St. Andrews.

      Now for a piece of business. The new Governor of Ceylon is a

friend of mine, and is  praopcousirnagtort--o        set up   a Natural History Museum
in Ceylon. He wants                                  some    vigorous fellow with plenty

of knowledge and power of organisation who will make use of his

                  He tells me he thinks he can start him with
Igreat opportunities.
£350 a year (and a house), with possible increase to £400.                              do

not know any one here who would answer the purpose. Can you
Ifrecommend me any one ?
                                 you can let me know at once, and
don't take so long in writing to me as I have been in writing to you.
      I await the "Prophecies of the Holy Antonius"1 anxiously. Like
Ithe Jews of old, come of an unbelieving generation, and need a
sign. The bread and the oil, also the chamber in the wall, shall not

fail the prophet when he comes in August : nor Donner and Blitzes

either.

    I leave the rest of the space for the wife. -- Ever yours,

                                                                              T. H. H.

was      The    faolbloawchineglori--s inuproenplya  to a jest of Dr.  Dohrn's -- who
         still
                                                     friend's unusual  sort of offering

to a young lady.

      I suspected the love affair you speak of, and thought the young
Idamsel very attractive.         suppose it will come to nothing, even if he

be disposed to add his hand to the iron and quinine, in the next
present he offers. . . . And, oh my Diogenes, happy in a tub of

                His work on the development of the Arthropoda.

1872 LETTERS TO DOHRN                                                              375

arthropodous Entwickelungsgeschichte,1                   despise not beefsteaks, nor
wives either. They also are good.

                                                    Jermyn Street, June 5, 1872.

My dear Dohrn --I have written to the Governor of Ceylon,

and enclosed the first half of your letter to me to him as he under
Istands High Dutch.
                     have told him that the best thing he can do

is to write to you at Naples and tell you he will be very happy to
see you as soon as you can come. And that if you do come you

will give him the best possible advice about his museum, and let

him have no rest until he has given you a site for a zoological

station.                                                 from       him in three weeks
                                                         will       find him a good-
    I have no doubt you will get a letter

or so. His name is Gregory, and you

humoured acute man of the world, with a very great general interest

in scientific and artistic matters. Indeed in art I believe he is a

considerable connoisseur.                                                          At

    I am very grieved to hear of your father's serious illness.

his age cerebral attacks are serious, and when we spent so many

pleasant  vhigouorusr--tovgeertyhemr ucaht  Naples,   he seemed     to  have  an  endless
store of                                    like his  son Anton.
IWhat put it into your head that had any doubt of your power
Iof work ?
            am ready to believe that you are Hydra in the matter

...of heads and Briareus in the matter of hands.
           If you go to Ceylon I shall expect you to come back by
way of England. It's the shortest route anywhere from India,

Ithough it may not look so on the map.

     How am ? Oh, getting along and just keeping the devil of
dyspepsia at arm's length. The wife and other members of the
IH. F. are

writing to
           ywoeul.l,--anEdverwoyouuldrs     send you     greetings  if they knew   was
                                            faithfully,             T. H. Huxley.

     A little later Von Willemoes Suhm (" why the deuce does

he have such a long name, instead of a handy monosyllable
or dissylable like Dohrn or Huxley ? ") was recommended for
the post. He afterwards was one of the scientific staff of

the Challenger, and died during the voyage.

            MORTHOE, NEAR BARNSTAPLE, NORTH DEVON,

                                                         Aug. 5, 1872.

My dear Dohrn--I trust you have not been very wroth with

Ime for my long delay in answering your last letter. For the last
six weeks   have been very busy lecturing daily to a batch of

            1 History of Development.

376     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 chap, xxvi

schoolmasters, and looking after their practical instruction in the
                                                                                 In the
        which the Government has,      at last, given me.
Il"abinoterarvtaolrsy                  taking my share in                        a battle
        of business "  have been

Iwhich has been raging between my friend Hooker of Kew and his
official chief. . . . And moreover    have just had strength enough

        work           done and no   moTrher,eeanddaeyvseryatghoi,ngthetha"t      could
        gone           to the wall.                                              Happy
Ito get my daily

be put off has
Family," bag and   baggage, came to    this remote corner, where
propose to take a  couple of months'
                                       entire rest-- and put myself
in order for next winter's campaign. It is a little village five miles

from the nearest town (which is Ilfracombe), and our house is at
the head of a ravine running down to the sea. Our backs are

Iturned to England and our faces to America with no land that
     know of between.  The country about is beautiful, and if

you will come we will put you up at the little inn, and show you

something better than even Swanage. There are slight difficulties

about the commissariat, but that is the Hausfrau's business, and not

mine. At the worst, bread, eggs, milk, and rabbits are certain, and

the post from London takes two days !

                               Morthoe, Ilfracombe, N. Devon,

                                                                 Aug. 23, 1872.

     My dear Whirlwind -- I promise you all my books, past,
present, and to come for the Aquarium. The best part about them

        ;th"eyFawsillestnoettiatmakeabuhposmteucdhocreoroi.m" .  Ask for Owen's by all
Iis that                                                         am very glad you have

means

got the British Association publications, as it will be a good pre

cedent for the Royal Society.

     Have you talked to Hooker about marine botany ? He may

be able to help you as soon as X. the accursed (may jackasses

sit upon his grandmother's grave, as we say in the East) leaves him
alone.
    IIt is hateful that you should be in England without seeing us,

and for the first time lament coming here. The children howled
in chorus when they heard that you could not come. At this

moment the whole tribe and their mother have gone to the sea, and
I must answer your letter before the post goes out, which it does
here about half an hour after it comes in. -- Ever yours very faith
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.
fully,

      In 1872 Huxley was at length enabled to establish in
his regular classes a system of science teaching based upon
laboratory work by the students, which he had long felt to
be the only true method. It involved the verification of

every fact by each student, and was a training in scientific

1872 CLASSES FOR SCIENCE TEACHERS                                          377

method even more than in scientific fact. Had circumstances

only permitted, the new epoch in biological teaching might

have been   antedated by many years. But,   as  he               says  in  the
preface to
            the Practical Biology, 1875 --

     Practical work was forbidden by the limitations of space in the

building in Jcrmyn Street, which possessed no room applicable to

Ithe purpose of a laboratory, and was obliged to content myself,
Ifor many years, with what seemed the next best thing, namely, as

full an exposition as could give, of the characters of certain plants
and animals, selected as types of vegetable and animal organisation,

by way of introduction to systematic zoology and paleontology.

      There was no laboratory work, but he would show
an experiment or a dissection during the lecture or perhaps
for a few minutes after, when the audience crowded round

the lecture table.

     The opportunity came in 1871. As he afterwards im
pressed upon the great city companies in regard to technical

education, the teaching of science throughout the country
turned upon the supply of trained teachers. The part to be
played by elementary science under the Education Act of
1870, added urgency to the question of proper teaching.
With this in view, he organised a course of instruction for
those who had been preparing pupils for the examinations of

the Science and Art Department, " scientific missionaries,"

as he described them to Dr. Dohrn.

     In the promotion of the practical teaching of biology (writes

the late Jeffery Parker, Nat. Sci. viii. 49), Huxley's services can

hardly be overestimated. Botanists had always been in the habit
of distributing flowers to their students, which they could dissect

or not as they chose ; animal histology was taught in many colleges
under the name of practical physiology ; and at Oxford an excellent
system of zoological work had been established by the late Professor
Rolleston.* But the biological laboratory, as it is now under-

    1 " Rolleston (Professor Lankester writes to me) was the first to systematically

conduct the study of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in this country by
making use of a carefully selected series of animals. His ' types ' were the Rat,

the Common Pigeon, the Frog, the Perch, the Crayfish, Blackbeetle, Anodon,
Snail, Earthworm, Leech, Tapeworm. He had a series of dissections of these
mounted, also loose dissections and elaborate MS. descriptions.  The student

went through this series, dissecting fresh specimens for himself. After some ten

378                           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        chap, xxv1

stood, may be said to date from about 1870, when Huxley, with the
co-operation of Professors Foster, Rutherford, Lankester, Martin,
and others,* held short summer classes for science teachers at South

Kensington, the daily work consisting of an hour's lecture followed
by four hours' laboratory work, in which the students verified for
themselves facts which they had hitherto heard about and taught to
their unfortunate pupils from books alone. The naive astonishment

and delight of the more intelligent among them was sometimes
almost pathetic. One clergyman, who had for years conducted
hcshleaoswesexncslaaiimnderdop,phyo"sfiioth'lsoisgjuyoswtunnlidkbeelorothdtheeupniSdccetiuer rntecheeinmaHincurdoxslceAoyrp'tse.DPehpya"srtiDomleoeangrty,.m" ewa! s"

      Later, in 1872, when the biological department of the

Royal School of Mines was transferred to South Kensing

ton, this method was adopted as part of the regular curri
culum of the school, and from that time the teaching " of

zoology by lectures alone became an anachronism."

      The first of these courses to schoolmasters took place,

as has been said, in 1871. Some large rooms on the ground
floor of the South Kensington Museum were used for the

purpose. There was no proper laboratory, but professor

and demonstrators rigged up everything as wanted. Huxley

was in the full tide of that more than natural energy which

preceded his break-down in health, and gave what Professor
Ray Lankester describes as " a wonderful course of lectures,"

one every day from ten to eleven for six weeks, in June and
half July. The three demonstrators (those named first on
      liasptieacbeo. ve)"              took a third of the class, about thirty-
the                           each
five                          Great    anednthoufsiaasnmimaplsre--vaiinlecdl.udinWg emwicernotscoovpeicr

a number of plants
work and some physiological experiment. The ' types '

were more numerous than in later courses."

years' experience Rolleston printed his MS. directions and notes as a book, called
       of Animal Life.
      This all preceded
IForm"s
                              the      practical  class at South  Kensington  in 1871.   have

no doubt that Rolleston was influenced in his plan by your father's advice. But

Rolle"stYoonurhafadthtehre's  earlier  opportunity of putting the method into practice.
                               series  of types were chosen so as to include plants, and he gave

more attention to microscopic forms and to microscopic structure than did

Rolleston."
     It was distinctive of the lectures that they were on biology, on plants as
                              illustrate all the fundamental features of living things.
well as animals, to           G. B. Howes, and W. Thistelton Dyer, K.C.M.G.,             CLE.

    1 T. J. Parker,

1872 THE NEW TEACHING OF BIOLOGY                                                 379

      In  1872 the new laboratory -- the present one -- was
ready.
" which   " I have a laboratory," writes Huxley to Dohrn,
          it shall do your eyes good to behold when you come

back from Ceylon, the short way," {i.e. via England). Here
a similar course, under the same demonstrators, assisted by

H. N. Martin, was given in the summer, Huxley, though
very shaky in health, making a point of carrying them out

himself.

                                26 Abbey Place, June 4, 1872.

My dear Tyndall --I must be at work on examination papers
Iall day to-day, but to-morrow
                                am good to lunch with you (and
abscond from the Royal Commission, which will get on very well

without me) or to go with you and call on your friends, whichever

may be most convenient.

      Many thanks for all your kind and good advice about the

Ilectures, but really think they will not be too much for me, and it
Iis of the utmost importance should carry them on.
They are the commencement of a new system of teaching which,
if I mistake not, will grow into a big thing and bear great fruit, and
Ijust at this present moment (nobody is necessary very long) am
I Ithe necessary man to carry it on.
                                      could not get a suppleant if
would, and you are no more the man than I am to let a pet scheme
fall through for the fear of a little risk of self. And really and truly

I find that by taking care I pull along very well. Moreover, it isn't

Imy brains that get wrong, but only my confounded stomach.

         have read your memorial 1 which is very strong and striking,

but a difficulty occurs to me about a good deal of and that
                                      I
                                            I

                                                       it,
                                                                            is
that won't do to quote Hooker's official letters before they have
it
                 4
been called for in Parliament, or otherwise made public. We

should find ourselves in the wrong officially, am afraid, by doing

so. However       we can discuss this when we meet.               will be at the
Athenaeum at
                   o'clock. -- Ever yours faithfully,

                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

As for the teaching by " types," which was the most

salient   feature of his method, and   therefore the most            easily
applied    and misapplied, Professor
                                      Parker continues --
                                                                  :

      Huxley's   method of      teoafchceinrgtainwa"stypbeasse"d    upon the personal
examination                                                       of animals and plants
                by the student

selected with view of illustrating the various groups. But, in his
          1
            a   In the affair of Dr. Hooker already referred to.

38o  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, xxvi

lectures, these types were not treated as the isolated things they
necessarily appear in a laboratory manual or an examination syllabus ;

each, on the contrary, took its proper place as an example of a
particular grade of structure, and no student of ordinary intelligence
could fail to see that the types were valuable, not for themselves, but
simply as marking, so to speak, the chapters of a connected narrative.
Moreover, in addition to the types, a good deal of work of a more
general character was done. Thus, while we owe to Huxley more
than to anyone else the modern system of teaching biology, he is by
no means responsible for the somewhat arid and mechanical aspect
it has assumed in certain quarters.

      The application of the same system to botanical teaching

was inaugurated in 1873, when, being compelled to go
abroad for his health, he arranged that Mr. (now Sir W.)
Thiselton Dyer should take his place and lecture on

botany.
      The Elementary Instruction in Biology, published in

1875, was a text- book based upon this system. This book,
in writing which Huxley was assisted by his demonstrator,
H. N. Martin, was reprinted thirteen times before 1888,
when it was " Revised and Extended by Howes and Scott,"
his later assistants. The revised edition is marked by one
radical change, due to the insistence of his demonstrator, the

lafaomtremoesbParo,off.yleiJfaeesftfew-preylraenPt,afirrskbtelor.oddea-Ilctnorwpthuietshcu;filresftr--omedthiteisoimns,ptuletdheenctellolsww--aesr

taken through an ascending series of plants and of animals,
ending with the frog or rabbit. But " the experience of

the Lecture-room and the Laboratory taught me," writes
Huxley in the new preface, " that philosophical as it might
be in theory, it had defects in practice." The process might
be regarded as not following the scientific rule of proceeding
from the known to the unknown ; while the small and

simple organisms required a skill in handling high power
 microscopes which was difficult for beginners to acquire.
 Hence the course was reversed, and began with the more
familiar type of the rabbit or frog. This was Rolleston's
practice ; but it may be noted that Professor Ray Lankester
has always maintained and further developed "the original
 Huxleian plan of beginning with the same microscopic
 forms " as being a most important philosophic improvement

1872 THE SCIENCE PRIMERS                                                                  381

on Rolleston's plan, and giving, he considers, " the                                 truer
' twist,' as it were, to a student's mind."                                          back

      When the book was sent to Darwin, he wrote

(November 12, 1875): --

My dear Huxley -- Many thanks for your biology, which I
               It was a real
Ihave read.    wish that I    stroke of genius to                think    of such    a--pElvane.r
                              had gone through                   such     a course.
Lord, how
                                                                          C. Darwin.
yours,

    A large portion of his time and energy was occupied

in the organisation of this course of teaching for teachers,

and its elaboration before being launched on a larger scale
in October, when the Biological Department of the Jermyn
Street school was transferred to the new buildings at South

Kensington, fitted with laboratories which were to excite his

friend Dr. Dohrn's envy. But he was also at work upon his
share of the Science Primers, so far as his still uncertain
health allowed. This and the affairs of the British Associa
tion are the subject of several letters to Sir Henry Roscoe
and Dr. Tyndall.

                                  26 Abbey Place, April 8, 1872.

My dear Roscoe --Many thanks for your kind letter of welcome.
My long rest has completely restored me. As my doctor told me, I
Iwas sound, wind and limb, and had merely worn myself out.
                                                                                          am
Inot going to do that again, and you see that have got rid of the
ISchool Board. It was an awful incubus !
      Oddly enough met the Ashtons in the Vatican, and heard
Iabout your perplexities touching Oxford.
                                                                     should have advised
you to do as you have done. I think that you have a great piece of
                                                                             If you had
work to do at Owens College, and that you will do
                                            it
                                                 is

                                                                     it.
                                                                                 a
gone to Oxford you would have sacrificed all the momentum you

have gained in Manchester and would have had to begin de novo,
                              I;
among conditions which,           imagine,                           very hard for non-

University      man to     aopfprtehceiat"ePraimnderasd"jus(tof  himself  to.        has  sent
         like  the look                                           which   Macmillan
aI
           I
me copies to-day) very much, and shall buckle to at mine as soon

as possible.               am very glad you did not wait for me.             I       remained

innothinvge.ry--shEavkeyr  condition up to the middle            of  March,  and could do
                           yours very faithfully,                    T. H.   Huxley.

      The wife unites with me in kind regards to Mrs. Roscoe and
yourself.

38a                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                    chap, xxvi

                                       Morthoe, Ilfracombe, N. Devon,

                                                                                     Sept. 9, 1872.

     My dear Tyndall --I was very glad to have news of you, and

to hear that you are vigorous.

     My outing hitherto has not been very successful, so far as the

inward man is concerned at least, for the weather has been good

enough. But I have been worried to death with dyspepsia and the
Ihypochondriacal bedevilments that follow in its train, until am
seriously thinking of returning to town to see if the fine air of St.

John's Wood (as the man says in Punch) won't enable me to recover

Ifrom the effects of the country.
      wish I were going with you to Yankee Land, not to do any

lecturing, God forbid ! but to be a quiet spectator in a corner of the
Ienthusiastic audiences.         am as lazy as a dog, and the role of
Ilooker-on would just suit me. However, have a good piece of

work to do in organising my new work at South Kensington.

     I have just asked my children what message they have to send

to you, and they send their love ; very sorry they won't see you before

Iyou go, and hope you won't come back speaking through your nose !
--       shall be  in town this  week  or next, and  therefore  shall see you.
    Ever yours     faithfully,                                  Huxley.
                                                        T. H.

                                       26 Abbey Place, Sept. 17, 1872.

     My dear Roscoe -- Your letter has followed me from Morthoe
here. We had good enough weather in Devon -- but my stay there

Iwas marred by the continuous dyspepsia and concurrent hypochon

driacal incapacity. At last, could not stand it any longer, and

came home for "change of air," leaving the wife and chicks to

follow next week. By dint of living on cocoa and Revalenta, and

giving up drink, tobacco, and all other things that make existence

pleasant, I am getting better.
    What was your motive in getting kicked by a horse ? I stopped

away from the Association without that ; and am not sorry to have
been out of the way of the X. business. What is to become of

the association if   is to monopolise it ? And then there was
                   Louis Napoleon -- to whom no honest man ought
I Ithat scoundrel,                                                      to

speak --gracing
                   the scene.    am right glad was out of it.
     II am at my wits' end to suggest a lecturer for you.       wish I
Icould offer myself, but have refused everything of that sort on the
Iscore of health ; and moreover, am afraid of my wife !
                                                                I have
     What do you say to Ramsay ? He lectures very well.

Idone nothing whatever to the Primer. Stewart sent me Geikie's

letter this morning, and have asked Macmillan to send Geikie the

proofs of my Primer so far as they go. We must not overlap more

than can be helped.


                                                                                     After a Water-Colour Sketchby R Huxity.

No. 4 Marlborough Place -- From the Garden.

1872 MOVES TO MARLBOROUGH PLACE                                     383

I have not seen Hooker yet since my return. While all this
Irow has been going on,
IAnd until X. is dead

afraid there will be little
                        paencadoceulddf--onr odhtima(.sok--ffichEiiamvlelyrtoyaodtuorasannyvyetrrhyaitnfeag),ithfofrullauyms,.
                                     T. H. Huxley.

Please remember me very kindly to Mrs. Roscoe.

      In a letter of September 25 is a reference to the way in
which his increasing family had outgrown his house in

Abbey Place. Early in the preceding year, he had come to

the decision to buy a small house in the same neighbourhood,

and add to it so as to give elbow-room to each and all of the

family. This was against the advice of his friend and legal

adviser, to whom he wrote announcing his decision, as

follows. The letter was adorned with a sketch of an absurd
           " Ye          "
cottage,         House      perched  like a windmill  on a kind of
                        !

pedestal, and with members of the family painfully ascending

a ladder to the upper storey, above the ominous legend,
" Staircase forgotten."

                                     March 20, 187 1.

     My dear Burton -- There is something delightfully refreshing
in rushing into a piece of practical work in the teeth of one's legal

adviser.
    IIf the lease of

mine house come
                 a piece of ground   whereon am       going   --to   build
                  to you, will you                    right.        Yours
                                     see if it's all
                                     T. H. Huxley.
wilfully,

      This house, No. 4 Marlborough Place, stands on the
north side of that quiet street, close to its junction with
Abbey Road. It is next door to the Presbyterian Church, on
the other side of which again is a Jewish synagogue. The
irregular front of the house, with the original cottage, white-

painted and deep-eaved, joined by a big porch to the new
uncompromising square face of yellow brick, distinguished
only by its extremely large windows, was screened from the
road by a high oak paling, and a well-grown row of young
lime trees. Taken as a whole, it was not without character,

and certainly was unlike most London houses. It was

built for comfort, not beauty ; designed, within stringent
limits as to cost, to give each member of the family room

to get away by himself or herself if so disposed. Moreover,

384  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY              chap, xxvi

the gain in space made it more possible to see something of
friends or put up a guest, than in the small and crowded

house in Abbey Place.

     A small garden lay in front of the house ; a consider

ably larger garden behind, wherein the chief ornament was
then a large apple-tree, that never failed to spread a cloud
of blossom for my father's birthday, the 4th of May.

      Over the way, too, for many years we were faced by a
long garden full of blossoming pear-trees in which thrushes
and blackbirds sang and nested, belonging to a desolate
house in the Abbey Road, which was tenanted by a soli
tary old man, supposed to be a male prototype of Miss
Havisham in Great Expectations.

      The move was accompanied by a unique and unpleasant

experience. A knavish fellow, living in a cottage close to

the foot of the garden, sought to blackmail the new-comer,
under threat of legal proceedings, alleging that a catchment
well for surface drainage had made his basement damp.
Unfortunately for his case, it could be shown that the pipes
had not yet been connected with the well, and when he

carried out his threat, he gained nothing from his suit in

Chancery and his subsequent appeal, except some stinging
remarks from Vice-Chancellor Malins.

     I am afraid the brute is impecunious (wrote my father after the
I Ifirst suit failed), and that
     shall get nothing out of him. So

shall have had three months' worry, and be fined ^Jioo or so for
being wholly and absolutely in the right.

     Happily the man turned out to have enough means to
pay the bulk of the costs ; but that was no compensation
for the mental worry and consequent ill-health entailed from
November to June.

      The only amusing point in the whole affair was when
the plaintiff's solicitors had the face to file an affidavit before
the Vice- Chancellor himself in answer to his strictures
upon the case, " about as regular a proceeding," reports Mr.
Burton, " as for a middy to reply upon the Post Captain on

his own quarter-deck."
      The move was made in the third week of December

(1872) amid endless rain and mud and with workmen still

     1872 FRIENDSHIP WITH MR. SPENCER                                                                       385

     in the  house. It was attended   by  one inconvenience.                                                He
     writes                          20,
             to Darwin on December        1872 :--

     I am utterly disgusted at having only just received your note

     of Tuesday. But the fact there       certain inconvenience about
                                 is,
                                                                              part of this
                                   I                                          not been to
                                               is
                                                      a
                                                       I

                                                                   I
     having four addresses  asofhaosurbemenovimngy--caasned  for   the  most
     week, in consequence                                      as       have

     Jermyn Street before to-day,  have missed your note.                                                   should

     run round to Queen Anne St. now on the chance of catching you,
     but am bound here by an appointment.
I
    IOne incident of the move, however, was more agreeable.

     Mr. Herbert Spencer took the opportunity of sending a New

     Year's gift for the new house, in the shape of handsome            a
     clock, wishing, as he said, " to express in some way more

     emphatic than by words, my sense of the many kindnesses

     have received at your hands during the twenty years of

our friendship. Remembrance of the things you have done

in furtherance of my aims, and of the invaluable critical aid

you have given me, with so much patience and at so much

cost of time, has often made me feel how much owe you."
                                     I
                                              I

                                                         it, :

                                                      I

                                                                                    is
     After generous reference to occasions when the warmth
     I
of debate might     have betrayed      him into more                          vigorous
expressions thanIahe intended, he
                                     concludes --
                            I
     But inadequately as may ordinarily show you will (knowing

that am tolerably candid) believe me when                          say that there no

one whose judgment on all subjects        so much respect, or whose

friendship so highly value.

     It may be remembered that            the 1872 address on

" Administrative Nihilism " led to        reply from the pen of
                                     a
                                                       is
Mr. Spencer, as the champion of Individualism. When my

father sent him the volume in which this address was printed,

he wrote back letter (Sept. 29, 1873) which characterised
             a

by the same feeling. It expresses his thanks for the book,
" and many more for the kind expression of feeling in the
Ifpreface.
             you had intended to set an example to the

Philistines of the way in which controversial differences may

be maintained without any decrease of sympathy, you could

not have done more perfectly."

     In connection with the building of the house, Tyndall
             I
     VOL.
                         it
                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                         C

386           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                        chap, xxvi

had advanced a sum of money to his friend, and with his

usual generosity, not only received interest with the greatest

reluctance, but would have liked to make a gift of the
principal. He writes, "            If  I
                                       It  remain a      bachelor I will circum
vent you -- if not -- not.                  cleaves
                                                         to me like dirt --and

that is why you wish to get rid of it."                     To this he received

answer :--

                                                                       Feb. 26, 1873.

     I am not to be                deterred by any amount   o"frabrreibaenryd  and corrup
                                   you under the yoke of a
tion, from bringing                                                            radiant," --
whenever I discover
                                   one competent   to undertake the ticklish business
o"fragreov"ersnhinegcerytaoiun.ly
                                    I hope she    will be "radiant," -- uncommonly

                                    will be !

     Two years later this loan was paid off, with the following

letter :--

                                                         4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                Jan. 11, 1875.
     My dear old Shylock -- My argosies have come in, and here
is all that was written in the bond ! If you want the pound of flesh

too, you know it is at your service, and my Portia won't raise that

pettifogging    objection to       --shEevdedirngyouars  little blood  into the bargain,
which that    other one did.                              faithfully,
                                                            T. H. Huxley.

     On October 24 Miss Jex Blake wrote to him to ask his

help for herself and the other women medical students at
Edinburgh. For two years they had only been able to get
anatomical teaching in a mixed class ; but wishing to have
a separate class, at least for the present, they had tried to
arrange for one that session. The late demonstrator at the
Surgeons' Hall, who had given them most of their teaching

before, had undertaken to teach this separate class, but was

refused recognition by the University Court, on the ground
that they had no evidence of his qualifications, while refusing
to let him prove his qualification by examination. This the
women students understood to be an indirect means of
suppressing their aspirations ; they therefore begged Huxley
to examine their instructor with a view to giving him a
certificate which should carry weight with the University

Court.

     He replied :--

1872 MIXED CLASSES IN ANATOMY                                              3S7

                                                           Oct. 28, 1872.

     Dear Madam -- While I fully sympathise with the efforts made

Iby yourself and others, to obtain for women the education requisite

to qualify them for medical practice, and while think that women
who have the inclination and the capacity to follow the profession of
                      unjustly dealt with if any obstacles beyond
medicine are most                                                  those
                                                                   must
Iwhich are natural                                                 those
Inevertheless add,
                      and inevitable are placed in their way,

                      that  as completely sympathise with

Professors of Anatomy, Physiology, and Obstetrics, who object to
teach such subjects to mixed classes of young men and women

brought together without any further evidence of moral and mental

fitness for such association than the payment of their fees.

    In fact, with rare exceptions, I have refused to admit women to

I Imy own Lectures on Comparative Anatomy for many years past.

But should not hesitate to teach anything know to a class com

Iposed of women ; and find it hard to believe that any one should

really wish to prevent women from obtaining efficient separate

instruction, and from being admitted to Examination for degrees

upon the same terms as men.
                          understand that I should be
     You  will therefore                                most   glad to help
     if                   it is with great regret that   feel  myself com
          could -- and
I Iyou
pelled to refuse your request to examine Mr. H
                                                        .
     IIn the first place am in the midst of my own teaching, and
Iwith health not yet completely re-established
                                                    am obliged to keep

Iclear of all unnecessary work. Secondly, such an examination must

be practical, and have neither dissecting-room available nor the

anatomical license required for human dissection ; and thirdly, it is

not likely that  the  University authorities would    attach   much weight
to my report     on                                           fact that Mr.
                      one or two days' work --      if the
I _H has already filled the
I understand                      office of anatomical Demonstrator (as
-- am, dear
                 from you) does   not satisfy them as to his competency.
                 Madam, yours
                                  very faithfully,  T. HTT. HTTuxley.

Miss S. Jex Blake.

the  The last    event    of the   year was that    Uhneivewrassitye--lectaedposbiy
     students             Rector  of Aberdeen
                 Lord

tion, the duties of which consist partly in attending certain

meetings of the University Court, but more especially in

delivering an address. This, however, was not required for
another twelvemonth, and the address on " Universities,

Actual and Ideal," was delivered in fulfilment of this duty

on February 1874.

                      CHAPTER XXVII

                                1873

The year opens with             a letter      to Tyndall,       then            on  a

lecturing tour in America       :--

                       4        Marlborough Place, Abbey Road,            N.W.,
                                          January I, 1872 [1873].

     My dear Tyndall --I cannot let this day go by without wishing

you a happy New Year, and lamenting your absence from our

Icustomary dinner. But Hirst and Spencer and Michael Foster are

coming, and they shall drink your health in champagne while do

the like in cold water, making up by the strength of my good wishes
for the weakness of the beverage.
                                              Getting into it was an
    IYou see write from the new house.

awful job, made worse than needful by the infamous weather we

have had for weeks and months, and by the stupid delays of the

workmen whom we had fairly to shove out at last as we came in.

We are settling down by degrees, and shall be very comfortable by
Iand by, though do not suppose that we shall be able to use the
Idrawing-room for two or three months to come.
                                                                am very glad to

have    made    the   change,   but there is  a drawback to everything                in
        here  wale,"   as Mrs.   Gamp says,   and my present thorn in               the
" this
flesh is a neighbour, who says I have injured him by certain opera
tions in my garden, and is trying to get something out of me by

Chancery proceedings.           Fancy finding myself a defendant in

Chancery !

    IIt is particularly hard on me, as have been especially careful to

Ihave nothing done without Burton's sanction and assurance that
     quite safe in law ; and I would
was                                   h"asviechgivisenlifeu.p"  anything  than  have
got  into bother of this kind. But

     You seem to have been making a Royal Progress in Yankee-land.

We have been uncommonly tickled with some of the reports of your

1«73 LETTER TO TYNDALL                                                                            389

lectures which reached us, especially with that which spoke of your

having "a strong English accent."
     The loss of your assistant seems to have been the only deduction

to be made from your success. I am afraid you must have felt it

m" suecc"huMriinnygaLlHlorwirdasyt"s".  received your telegram only               after the business of
                                         was done. That is one of                 the bright spots in a

bad year for me. Goschen consulted Spottiswoode and me in
dependently about the headship of the new Naval College, and was

naturally considerably surprised by the fact that we coincided in

recommending Hirst. . . . The upshot was that Goschen asked me
to communicate with Hirst and see if he would be disposed to accept
Ithe offer. So did, and found to my great satisfaction that Hirst
Itook to the notion very kindly.
                                                 am sure he is the very best man

for the post to be met with in the three kingdoms, having that rare
combination of qualities by which he gets on with all manner of men,

and singularly attracts young fellows.                                   He will not only do his

duty, but be beloved for doing                                    which
      I                                                                     a iswhat few people can

compass.      is
                                                             it,
      have little news to give you. The tail of the X.- Hooker

storm drifting over the scientific sky in the shape of fresh attacks

by Owen on Hooker. Hooker answered the last angelically, and
                                                                                           is
hope they are at an end.
                                                                                                  I
       The   wife has just                 come in and sends                her love (but       careful
      add "  second-best                        The chicks grow
to                     a                                                    visibly and audibly, and
                           it a

                                ").
Jess looks quite woman. All are well except myself, and                                           am
                                                                                  I
getting better from fresh breakdown of dyspepsia.                                         I

                                                                                                 if
                                                                                           find that

is I  Ifam to exist at all must be on strictly ascetic principles, so there
   hope of my dying in                     the   odheourshoofuldsan"ctditiye    yet. you recollect,
Lancelot did not know                      that                                  holy man " till rather

late in life.  is I I  have forgotten to tell you about the Rectorship of

Aberdeen.            refused to stand at first, on the score of health, and

only consented on condition that should not be called upon to doa                 a

any public work until after the long vacation. It was very hardI
fight, and although had an absolute majority of over fifty, the mode
                                        I

of election          such that one vote, in one of the four nations, would

have turned the scale by giving my opponent the majority in that

nation. We should then have been ties, and as the chancellor, who

has under such circumstances                     casting vote, would have
                                                                              isI                believe)
given against me, should have been beaten.
      it it                                                                       is            of ortho
                                                                                        a
               is,
                      a                                                                       (I
                        a is
                                                                                               I
                    aI
      As the fact of anyone, who stinketh in the nostrils

doxy, beating Scotch peer at his own gates in the most orthodox

of Scotch cities,                          curious sign of the times. The reason why

they made such tremendous fight for me,                                           believe, that may

carry on the reforms commenced by Grant Duff, my predecessor.
Unlike other Lord Rectors, he of Aberdeen
                                                                                  power and can

39o               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                      CHAP. XXVII

practically govern the action of the University during his tenure of

office.

    I saw Pollock yesterday, and he says that they want you back

again. Curiously the             same desire   is epidemically  prevalent among
your friends, not least
                                here. -- Ever  yours,  T.       H. Huxley.

     In spite of his anxieties, his health was slowly im

proving under careful regimen. He published no scientific

memoirs this year, but in addition to his regular lectures, he

was working to finish his Manual of Invertebrate Anatomy

and his Introductory Primer, and to write his Aberdeen

address ; he was also at work upon the Pedigree of the Horse
and on Bodily Motion and Consciousness.                         He delivered a

course to teachers on Psychology and Physiology, and was

much occupied by the Royal Commission on Science. As
a governor of Owens College he had various meetings to

attend, though his duties did not extend, as some of his

friends seem to have thought, to the appointment of a

Professor of Physiology there.

me   My life (he  writes        to Sir Henry   Roscoe) is becoming a burden to
     because of                                not know, but for some reason
                             .   Why I do
Ipeople have taken it into their heads that have something to do

Iwith appointments in Owens College, and no fewer than three men

of whose opinion think highly have spoken or written to me urging

     's merits very strongly.

     This summer he again took a long holiday, thanks to

the generosity of his friends (see p. 394), and with better
results. He went with his old friend Hooker to the Auvergne,

walking, geologising, sketching and gradually discarding

doctor's orders.  Sir Joseph Hooker has                very kindly    written
me a letter from  which I give an account               of this trip
                                                                      :--

     It was during the many excursions we took together, either by
ourselves or with one of my boys, that I knew him best at his best ;
and especially during one of several weeks' duration in the summer of
1873, which we spent in central France and Germany. He had

been seriously ill, and was suffering from severe mental depression.
For this he was ordered abroad by his physician, Sir A. Clark, to

Iwhich step he offered a stubborn resistance. With Mrs. Huxley's

approval, and being myself quite in the mood for a holiday,
volunteered to wrestle with him, and succeeded, holding out as an

1873 WITH HOOKER IN THE AUVERGNE                                          391

inducement a visit to the volcanic region of the Auvergne with

Scrope's classical volume, which we both knew and admired, as a

guide book.

    We started on July 2nd, I loaded with injunctions from his

physician as to what his patient was to eat, drink, and avoid, how

much he was to sleep and rest, how little to talk and walk, etc., that

Iwould have made the expedition a perpetual burthen to me had
Inot believed that knew enough of my friend's disposition and

ailments to be convinced that not only health but happiness would

be our companions throughout. Sure enough, for the first few days,

including a short stay in Paris, his spirits were low indeed, but this

gave me the opportunity of appreciating his remarkable command

over himself and his ever-present consideration for his companion.

Not a word or gesture of irritation ever escaped him ; he exerted

himself to obey the instructions laid down ; nay, more, he was

instant in his endeavour to save me trouble at hotels, railway stations,

and ticket offices. Still, some mental recreation was required to

expedite recovery, and he found it first by picking up at a bookstall,

a History of the Miracles of Lourdes, which were then exciting the
religious fervour of France, and the interest of her scientific public.

He entered with enthusiasm into the subject, getting together all

the treatises upon favourable or the reverse, that were accessible,
it I

           it
                           it,

                                      a

                                 it
                                                   a

                                          It

                                                                           a
                                                                        a

                                                                                                     a

                                                                          aI
and need hardly add, soon arrived at the conclusion, that the

so-called miracles were in part illusions and for the rest delusions.

As may interest some of your readers to know what his

opinion was in this the early stage of the manifestations,

will give  as he gave to me.  was case of two peasant

children sent in the hottest month of the year into hot valley to

collect sticks for firewood washed up by stream, when one of them

after stooping down opposite  heat-reverberating rock, was, in

rising, attacked with transient vertigo, under which she saw
figure in white against the rock. This bare fact being reported to
the cure of the village, all the rest followed.

Soon after our arrival at Clermont Ferrand, your father had so

far recovered his wonted elasticity of spirits that he took keen
                              a
                                                                       a
interest in everything around, the museums, the cathedral, where he
enjoyed the conclusion of the service by military band which gave

selections from the Figlia del Regimento, but above all he appreciated
the walks and drives to the geological features of the environs. He

reluctantly refrained from ascending the Puy de Dome, but managed
the Pic Parion, Gergovia, Royat, and other points of interest with

out fatigue. . .
           .

      After Clermont they visited the other four great volcanic
areas explored by Scrope, Mont Dore, the Cantal, Le Puy,
and the valley of the Ardeche. Under the care of his

392

friend, and relieved from the strain of work, my father's
health rapidly improved. He felt no bad effects from a
night at Mont Dore, when, owing to the crowd of invalids in
the little town, no better accommodation could be found
than a couple of planks in a cupboard. Next day they
took up their quarters in an unpretentious cabaret at La
Tour d'Auvergne, one of the villages on the slopes of the

mountain, a few miles away.

     Here (writes Sir J. Hooker), and for some time afterwards, on

our further travels, we had many interesting and amusing experi
ences of rural life in the wilder parts of central France, its poverty,
penury, and too often its inconceivable impositions and overcharges
to foreigners, quite consistently with good feeling, politeness, and
readiness to assist in many ways.

    By the ioth of July, nine days after setting out, I felt satisfied

(he continues) that your father was equal to an excursion upon
which he had set his heart, to the top of the Pic de Sancy, 4000
feet above La Tour and 7 miles distant.

     It was on this occasion that the friends made what

they thought a new discovery, namely evidence of glacial

action in central France. Besides striated stones in the

fields or built into the walls, they noticed the glaciated
appearance of one of the valleys descending from the peak,
and especially some isolated gigantic masses of rock on an
open part of the valley, several miles away, as to which they

debated whether they were low buildings or transported
blocks. Sir Joseph visited them next day, and found they
were the latter, brought down from the upper part of the

peak.1

     Le Puy offered a special attraction apart from scenery
and geology. In the museum was the skeleton of a pre
historic man that had been found in the breccia of the

neighbourhood, associated with the remains of the rhinoceros,

elephant, and other extinct mammals. My father's sketch
-book contains drawings of these bones and of the ravine
where they were discovered, although in spite of directions

from M. Aymard, the curator, he could not find the exact

     1 He published   an account of these blocks in Natun, xiii. 31,   166, but
                                                                       in 1872
subsequently found   that glaciation had been observed by von Lassaul
and by Sir William   Guise in 1870.

1873 TOUR IN THE AUVERGNE                                                                393

spot. Under the sketch is a description of the remains, in
which he notes, " The bones do not look fresher than some
of those of Elephas and Rhinoceros in the same or adjacent

cases."

     As for the final stage of the excursion :--

After leaving the Ardeche (continues Sir J. Hooker), with no
Scrope to lead or follow, our scientific ardours collapsed.                              We

had vague views as to future travel. Whatever one proposed was

unhesitatingly acceded to by the other. A more happy-go-lucky

pair of idlers never joined company.

     As will be seen from the following letters, they made
their way to the Black Forest, where they stayed till Sir

Joseph's duties called him back to England, and my
mother came out to join my father for the rest of his

holiday.1                                                          and Dr. Tyndall

     The following letters to Sir H. Roscoe

were written during this tour :--

                                                      Le Puy, Haute Lo1re, France,
                                                               July 17, 1873.

    My dear Roscoe -- Your very kind letter reached me just as I
was in the hurry of getting away from England, and I have been

carrying it about in my pocket ever since.

    Hooker and I have been having a charming time of it among

the volcanoes of the Auvergne, and we are now on our way to those
of the Velay and Vivarrais. The weather has been almost perfect.
Perhaps a few degrees of temperature could have been spared now
and then, especially at Clermont, of which somebody once said that

     1 You ask me (Sir Joseph adds) whether your father smoked on the occasion
of this tour. Yes, he did, cigars in moderation. But the history of his addic

tion to tobacco that grew upon him later in life, dates from an earlier excursion

that we took together, and I was the initiator of the practice. It happened in

this wise :  hoethehrawdisbeee"n   suffering from  what was supposed to be gastric  irritation,
and, being                        run down," we     agreed to go, in company with   Sir John

Lubbock, on a   tour to  visit the great monoliths of        Brittany. This   was   in 1867.
On arriving at  Dinan    he suffered so much that                             his   trying a
                                                             I recommended
few cigarettes which I had with me. They acted as a charm, and this led to
                                  1875 I                     pipe. That he
cigars, and finally, about                   think,  to the  unquestionable.  subsequently
carried the use of tobacco        to excess          think,
                                              is, I                           I repeatedly
remonstrated with him, at last I think (by backing his medical adviser) with

effect.      never  blamed        myself  for      the " teaching  him " to smoke,  for  the

    I have

practice habitually palliated his distressing symptoms when nothing else did, nor
can his chronic illness be attributed to the abuse of tobacco.

394     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, xxv11

having stayed there the climate of hell would have no terrors

for him.

     It has been warm in the Mont Dore country and in the Cantal,

as it is here, but we are very high up, and there is a charming

freshness and purity about the air.

    I do not expect to be back before the end of September, and
my lectures begin somewhere in the second week of October.

After they commence I shall not be able to leave London even for
Ia day, but shall be very glad to come to the inauguration of your
new buildings if the ceremony falls within my possible time. And

Iyou know am always glad to be your guest.
    I am thriving wonderfully. Indeed all that plagues me now is

Imy conscience, for idling about when I feel full of vigour. But
Ipromised to be obedient, and        am behaving better than Auld

Clootie did when he fell sick.                                     This would be the place

for yIouho--peanyyouquaarnetirtoyuotifngminouetralthweatgeorus.t.

      Pray remember me very  kindly  to     Mrs.                   Roscoe, and believe me,
ever yours very faithfully,
                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

                             Hotel de France, Baden-Baden,
                                          July 30, 1873.

     My dear Tyndall-- We find ourselves here after a very

successful cruise in the Auvergne and Ardeche, successful at least
so far as beauty and geological interest go. The heat was killing,
and obliged us to give up all notion of going to Ursines, as we had

at first intended to do. So we turned our faces north and made

for Grenoble, hoping for a breath of cool air from the mountains of

Dauphiny. But Grenoble was hotter even than Clermont (which,

by the way, quite deserves its reputation as a competitor with hell),

a neighbour's drains were adrift close to the hotel, and we got

poisoned before we could escape. Luckily we got off with nothing

worse than a day or two's diarrhoea. After this the best thing

seemed to be to rush northward to Gernsbach, which had been

described to me as a sort of earthly paradise. We reached the

place last Saturday night, and found ourselves in a big rambling

hotel,  crammed       full  of people, and   planted in the        "bcootntovmenieonft  a
narrow   valley, all  hot   and steaming.                                               "
                                            A large pigstye

to the house mingled its vapours with those of the seventy or eighty

people who eat and drank without any other earthly occupation

that we could discern during the three days we were bound, by

stress of letters and dirty linen, to stop. On Monday we made an

excursion over here, prospecting, and the air was so fresh and

Igood, and things in general looked so promising that made up

Imy mind to put up in Baden-Baden until the wife joins me. She

writes me that you talk of leaving England on Friday, and

i873 LETTERS FROM ABROAD                                                                    395

may remark that Baden is on the high road to Switzerland.

Verbum sap.
       II am wonderfully better, and really feel ashamed of loafing
about when I might very well be at work. But                           have promised
to make holiday, and make holiday I will.
       No proof of your answer to Forbes' biographer reached me
I Ibefore I left, so suppose you had not received one in time.
                                                                                            am

dying to see it out.

    Hooker is down below, but I take upon myself to send his
love. He
mulligrubs.        is  in great force        now  that  he        has  got rid of   his Grenoble
                       Ever yours,                                         T. H.    Huxley.
                   --

       After parting company with Hooker, he paid a flying

visit to Professor Bonnet at Geneva ; then he was joined by

his wife and son for the last three weeks of the holiday,

which   were            spent at   Baden and                  in  the  Bernese      Oberland.
Before  this,          he writes
                                  home :--

    II feel quite a different man from what was two months ago,

and you will say that you have a much more creditable husband
than the broken-down old fellow who has been a heart-ache to you
so long, when you see me. The sooner you can get away the

better. If the rest only does you as much good as it does me, I

shall be very happy.

                                                                       Axenstein, Luzerne,

                                                                       Aug. 24, 1873.

       My dear Tyndall -- The copies of your booklet 1 intended for
Hooker and me reached me just as I left Baden last Tuesday.
IHooker had left me for home a fortnight before, and hardly know
Iwhether to send his to Kew or keep them for him till return. I
have read mine twice, and I think that nothing could be better than
                                             I did not suspect that you had such a
the tone you have adopted.

Ishot  "increyvoausrselsoc"kererfearsretdhe   answer to Forbes          about the   direction of
                                                                       is a deadly  thrust ; and
the                                          to by Rendu. It
     shall be curious to see what sort of parry the other side will

attempt. For of course they will attempt something. Scotland                                  a is,

   believe,        the only country in        the  world in which       you can bring       an
action for         " putting to silence      " an  adversary who       will go on with      an
I
obviously hopeless suit. The lawgivers knew the genius of theI

people and        ;  it        to be regretted that they could not establish
                         is
           I                  a
process of the same sort in scientific matters.

       wrote to you month ago to tell you how we had been getting

on in France. Hooker and were very jolly, notwithstanding the
                                             I

                                                          is
heat, and think that the Vivarrais the most instructive country

                       1  " Principal Forbes and his Biographers."

            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           chap, xxv11

in the world for seeing what water can do in cutting down the

hardest rocks. Scrope's book is very good on the whole, though
the pictures are a little overdone.

     My wife and Leonard met me at Cologne on the nth. Then

we went on to Baden and rested till last Tuesday, when we

journeyed to Luzerne and, getting out of that hot and unsavoury

hole as fast as we could, came here last Thursday.

     We find ourselves very well off. The hotel is perched up 180

feet above the lake, with a beautiful view of Pilatus on the west and
of the Urner See on the south. On the north we have the

Schwyz valley, so that we are not shut in, and the air is very good

and fresh. There are plenty of long walks to be had without much

fatigue, which suits the wife. Leonard promises to have very
Igood legs of his own with plenty of staying power.
                                                                               have given
Ihim one or two sharp walks, and find he has plenty of vigour and
            But he is not thirteen yet and I do not mean to let
endurance.
Ihim do overmuch, though we are bent on a visit to a glacier.
IiwbneagsDarnp.roTtomynptdetlallyllh'ssihmubtosooukmp "ew--thitihnw,ghi"cahObhos,uatiydetshbeo! ogklIahckeienrsosewetmhaesll
                                                                 other          day, but
                                                                 about          that. It's
                                                                to me
                                                                               to have got

Iby heart. He is the sweetest little fellow imaginable ; and either he

has developed immensely in the course of the last year, or have

never been so much thrown together with him alone, and have not

had the opportunity of making him out.

   You are a fatherly old bachelor, and will not think me a par

ticularly great donkey for prattling on in this way about my swan,
Iwho probably to unprejudiced eyes has a power of goose about him.

         suppose you know that in company with yourself and Hooker,
the paternal gander (T. H. H.) has been honoured by the King of
Sweden and made into a Polar Goose by the order of the North

Star. Hooker has explained to the Swedish Ambassador that

IEnglish officials are prohibited by order in Council from accepting

foreign orders, and believe keeps the cross and ribbon on these
conditions. If it were an ordinary decoration I should decline
Iwith thanks, but
Ilike the Prussian
            am told it        miseraitepu" r;elsyo  scientific  and            literary  affair
            " pour le                                when       get                      shall
                                                                               back I

follow Hooker's line.
Ihe
       met Laugel on   board  atthethLeuzBeerlnaelps--teagmalbliovaatnttihneg  other day,   and
   told me that you    were                                                      as usual,  and
likely to remain there for some time. So I send this on the chance

of finding you. With best love from us all, ever yours,
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

   I Iam as well as    ever was in my life-- regularly set up -- in
Itoken whereof have shaved off my beard.

     In another letter to his wife, dated August 8, from Baden,

1873 SCIENTIFIC WORK AFTER 1870                                                                                         397

there is a very interesting passage about himself and his

aims. He has just  been speaking about  his  son's                                                              doings  at

school :--

I have been having a great deal of talk with myself about my
Ifuture career too, and have often thought over what you say in
Ithe letter you wrote to the Puy.
                                       don't quite understand what

         meant about the disputed reputation, unless it is a reputation

for getting into disputes. But to say truth I am not greatly con
cerned about any reputation except that of being entirely honest and
I Istraightforward, and that reputation think and hope have.
... IFor the rest
                   the part have to play is not to found a new

school of thought or to reconcile the antagonisms of the old schools.
We are in the midst of a gigantic movement greater than that

which preceded and produced the Reformation, and really only the
continuation of that movement. But there is nothing new in the
ideas which lie at the bottom of the movement, nor is any recon

cilement possible between free thought and traditional authority.

One or other will have to succumb after a struggle of unknown

duration, which will have as side issues vast political and social
Itroubles.
             have no more doubt that free thought will win in the
Ilong run than I have that sit here writing to you, or that this free

thought will organise itself into a coherent system, embracing human

life and the world as one harmonious whole. But this organisation
will be the work of generations of men, and those who further it

most will be those who teach men to rest in no lie, and to rest in
Ino verbal delusions.
I-- perhaps            may be able to help a little in this direction

             may have helped already.  For the present, however,
I am disposed to draw myself back entirely into my own branch of

physical science. There is enough and to spare for me to do in

that line, and, for years to come, I do not mean to be tempted

out of  it.
                                                a

                                                                                                             1
      Strangely enough, this was the one thing he was
destined not to do. Official work multiplied about him.

From 1870 to 1884 only two years passed without his
serving on one or two Royal Commissions. He was
Secretary of the Royal Society from 187 to 1880, and
President from 1883 to his retirement, owing to ill-health,
in 1885. He became Dean as well as Professor of Biology
in the College of Science, and Inspector of Fisheries. Though
he still managed to find some time for anatomical investi
gations, and would steal precious hour or half hour by
driving back from the Home Office to his laboratory at

South Kensington before returning home to St. John's

39«  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, xxvn

 Wood, the amount of such work as he was able to publish

 could not be very great.

       His most important contributions during this decennium (writes
 Sir M. Foster) were in part continuations of his former labours,
 such as the paper and subsequent full memoir on Stagonolepis,
 which appeared in 1875 and 1877, and papers on the Skull. The
 facts that he called a communication to the Royal Society, in 1875,*
 on Amphioxus, a preliminary note, and that a paper read to the
 Zoological Society in 1876, on Ceratodus Forsteri, was marked
 No. 1 of the series of Contributions to Morphology, showed that he
 still had before him the prospect of much anatomical work, to be
 accomplished when opportunity offered ; but, alas ! the opportunity
 which came was small, the preliminary note had no full successor,
 and No. 1 was only followed, and that after an interval of seven
years, by a brief No. 2. A paper "On the Characters of the
 Pelvis," in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, in 1879, is full of
 suggestive thought, but its concluding passages seem to suggest
 that others, and not he himself, were to carry out the ideas. Most
of the papers of this decennium deal with vertebrate morphology,
 and are more or less connected with his former researches, but in
 one respect, at least, he broke quite fresh ground. He had chosen
the crayfish as one of the lessons for the class in general biology
spoken of above, and was thus drawn into an interesting study of
crayfishes, by which he was led to a novel and important analysis of
the gill plumes as evidence of affinity and separation. He embodied
the main results of his studies in a paper to the Zoological Society,
and treated the whole subject in a more popular style in a book on
the Crayfish. In a somewhat similar way, having taken the dog as
an object lesson in mammalian anatomy for his students, he was
led to a closer study of that common animal, resulting in papers on
that subject to the Zoological Society in 1880, and in two lectures
at the Royal Institution in 1880. He had intended so to develop
this study of the dog as to make it tell the tale of mammalian
morphology ; but this purpose, too, remained unaccomplished.

      Moreover, though he sent one paper (on Hyperodapedon
Gordoni) to the Geological Society as late as 1887, yet the
complete breakdown of his health in 1885, which released
him from nearly all his official duties, at the same time
dulled his ardour for anatomical pursuits. Stooping over
his work became an impossibility.

     Though he carried about him, as does every man of like calibre
and experience, a heavy load of fragments of inquiry begun but

                                                       1 Written 1874.

1873 LETTERS TO DOHRN 399

never finished, and as heavy a load of ideas for promising investiga

tions never so much as even touched, though his love of science

and belief in it might never have wavered, though he never doubted

the value of the results which further research would surely bring

him, there was something working within him which made his hand,

when turned to anatomical science, so heavy that he could not lift

it. Not even that which was so strong within him, the duty of
fulfilling a promise, could bring him to the work. In his room at

South Kensington, where for a quarter of a century he had laboured

with such brilliant effect, there lay on his working table for months,

indeed for years, partly dissected specimens of the rare and little
          marine animal, Spirula, of
studied  an account to the Reports    which   h"eChhaaldlenpgreomr "iseEdxpetdoiticoonn,
tribute                               of the

and hard by lay the already engraven plates ; there was still wanted

nothing more than some further investigation and the working out

of the results. But it seemed as if some hidden hands were always

being stretched out to keep him from the task; and eventually

another labourer had to complete it. {Ibid.)

The remaining letters of this year include several to Dr.

Dohrn, which show the continued interest my father took in

the great project of the Biological Station at Naples, which

was carried through in spite of many difficulties. He had

various books and proceedings of learned societies sent out

at Dr. Dohrn 's request (I omit the details) and proposed a

scheme for raising funds towards completing the building

when the contractor failed. The scheme, however, was not

put into execution.                           4 Marlborough Place,

                                                        Feb. 24, 1873.

    My dear Dohrn -- I was very        --g"laStdthaotuitogonh,  receive the  fine   sealed
                                                                             there  is not
letter, and to get some news of you                              to be sure
much of you in the letter, but all is                             Station."
II congratulate you heartily on your success with your under
taking, and I only wish  could see England represented among

the applicants for tables. But you see England is so poor, and the

Ipresent price of coals obliges    h"erPatoteercAonnocmhiissees.  " Baer,  and rejoice to
         envy you your visit from

hear that the grand old man is well and strong enough to entertain
I I Isuch a project.
Ihad a long bout
         ofwiisllhnessco--uledvesreesmincyewaAyugtousdt --oinbgutthe       like.    have

Imuch better, indeed,                                                      am now very
                         hope I may say quite well. The weariness

of all this has been complicated by the trouble of getting into a new

house, and in addition a law-suit brought by a knavish neighbour,

in the hope of extracting money out of me.

400               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY       chap, xxvii

     I am happy to say, however, that he has just been thoroughly
and effectually defeated. It has been a new experience for me, and

I hope it may be my last as well as my first acquaintance with

English law, which is a luxury of the most expensive character.

    IIf Dr. Kleinenberg is with you, please to tell him, with my compli

ments and thanks for the copy of his Memoir, that went over his

Hydra paper pretty carefully in the summer, and satisfied myself as
to the correctness of his statements about the structure of the

ectoderm and about the longitudinal fibres. About the Endoderm

I Iam not so clear, and often found indications of delicate circular
Ifibres in close apposition with the longitudinal ones. However,

had not time to work all this out, and perhaps might as well say

nothing about it.                                        I trust
      Pray make my very kind remembrances to Mr. Grant.

that his dramas may have a brilliant reception.

     The Happy Family flourishes.  But we shall look to your

coming to see us. The house is big enough now to give you a

bedroom, and you know you will have no lack of a welcome.

    I have said nothing about my wife (who has been in a state not

only of superhuman, but of superfeminine, activity for the last three

months) meaning to leave her the last page to speak for herself.
     With best compliments to the "ladies downstairs," ever yours
                                                 T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                                Oct. 17, 1873.

    I IMy dear Dohrn--Your letter reached me nearly a week ago,

and have been turning over its contents in my mind as well as
could, but have been able to come to no clear conclusion until now.

I have been incessantly occupied with other things.

    II will do for you, and gladly, anything would do for myself,
Ibut could not apply on my own behalf to any of those rich
Icountrymen of mine, unless they were personally well known to

me, and had the opportunity of feeling my way with them. But

if you are disposed to apply to any of the people you mention, I

Ishall be only too glad to back your application with all the force

   am master of. You may make use of my name to any extent as
guarantor of the scientific value and importance of your undertaking
and refer anyone to whom you may apply to me. It may be, in
fact, that this is all you want, but as you have taken to the caprice

Iof writing in my tongue instead of in that vernacular, idiomatic and
characteristically Dohrnian German, in which delight, I am not so
sure about your meaning. There is a rub for you. If you write
Ito me in English again will send the letter back without paying

the postage.

      In any case let me have a precise statement of your financial

                                    LETTERS                                     401

Iposition.
Ifirst question
            may have a chance of             tisa--lkinHgowto  some  Croesus,   and the
                                                               am    to know   that this
             he is sure to ask me
Iis a stable affair, and that am not throwing my money into the

sea? . . .

      (Referring to an unpleasant step it seemed necessary to take)
. . . you must make up your mind to act decidedly and take the
consequences. No good is ever done in this world by hesitation. . . .

    I hope you are physically better. Look sharply after your diet,

take    e--xerEcviseer  and defy    the blue-devils,  and you will weather the
storm.                  yours very  faithfully,
                                                              T. H. Huxley.

     Tyndall, who had not attended the 1873 meeting of the
British Association, had heard that some local opposition
had been offered to his election as President for the Belfast

meeting in 1874, and had written: --

    I wish to heaven you had not persuaded me to accept that

Belfast duty. They do not want me. . . . But Spottiswoode
assures me that no individual offered the slightest support to the
two unscientific persons who showed opposition.

     The following was written in reply :--

                                                      4 Marlborough Place,

                                                               Sept. 25, 1873.

My dear Tyndall --I am sure you are mistaken about the

Belfast  people. That      blundering idiot           "oHf ome  Rwualente"dagittaotiomn akien
himself  important and    get up a sort of
the Association, but nobody backed him and he collapsed. I am

at your disposition for whatever you want me to do, as you know,

Iand am sure Hooker is of the same mind. We shall not be

ashamed when we meet our enemies in the gate.

The grace of God cannot entirely have deserted you since

you are aware of the temperature of that ferocious epistle.
IReeks,* whom saw yesterday, was luxuriating in
                                                                     I it,

                                                                                                     it
found his impudence) that was quite my style.                        and said (con
                                                                          forgot to tell
1

     is

         I

                 I

                                       a it
him, by the bye, that had resigned in your favour ever since the

famous letter to Carpenter. Well, so long as you are better after

there no great harm done.

     Somebody has sent me the two numbers of Scribner with

Blauvelt's articles on "Modern Skepticism." They seem to be

very well done, and he has better appreciation of the toughness of
the job before him than any of the writers of his school with whom

        The late Trenham  Reeks, Registrar   of the School     of Mines,  and Curator  of
the Museum of Practical   Geology.                                                D

       VOL.                                                               2

402

II have met. But it is rather cool of you to talk of his pitching into
Spencer when you are chief target yourself.                                  come in only par
parenthise, and I am glad to see that people are beginning to under

stand    mayndreSalpepnocseirt.io--n,   and  to separate  me  from such raging infidels
as you                                 Ever  thine,                 T. H. Huxley.

     He was unable to attend the opening of Owens College
                                                                                                        of
this autumn, and having                      received but                 a  scanty  account
the proceedings, wrote as
                                             follows :--

                                       4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,

                                                                 Oct. 16, 1873.

     My dear Roscoe -- I consider myself badly used. Nobody
has sent me a Manchester paper with the proceedings of the day of
inauguration when, I hear, great speeches were made.
     I did get two
"                   Mpoarpaelristy,"confotar inwihnigchyoIuramopdeunliynggrlaetcetufurle,,            and the
   Fragment of a                                                                                      but two

Icopies of one day's proceedings are not the same thing as one copy

of two days' proceedings, and consider it is very disrespectful to a

Governor (large G) not to let him know what went on.
     By all accounts which have reached me it was a great success,
I Iand                                                                    that I could have been
                                                               only wish     T. H. Huxley.
there                                                    faithfully,
         tcoonsgerea. t--ulaEteveryoyuouhrsearvteilryy.

     The autumn brought a slow improvement in health--

    I am travelling (he writes) between the two                                      "stmateioanns        of
                                                                                                        line
dyspepsia and health thus (illustrated by a zigzag with

ascending
              ").

                  I
                          is
                          I
                                                                        ;:

                                                          in if

                                                                         a
                                                                           if

                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                     a
     The sympathy of the convalescent appears in various

letters to friends who were ill. Thus, in reply to Mr. Hyde

Clarke, the philologist and, like himself,                                   member of the

Ethnological Society, he writes --

--   (Nov. 18, 1873)-- am                    glad to     learn two things from                        your note
                                               better     second, that there                            hope of
    first, that you are getting
some good coming out of that Ashantee row, only in the shape of

rare vocables.

     My attention quite turned away from Anthropological matters

at present, but will bear your question                                      mind opportunity

offers.

     A letter to Professor Rolleston at Oxford gives lively

account of his own ailments, which could only have been

                  IMPROVEMENT IN HEALTH                                                     403

written by one now recovering from them, while the illness
of another friend raised a delicate point of honour, which he
laid before the judgment of Mr. Darwin, more especially as

the latter had been primarily concerned in the case.

                                                                      4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                      Oct. 16, 1873.

My dear Rolleston --A note which came from Mrs. Rolleston

to my wife the other day, kindly answering some inquiries of ours

about the Oxford Middle Class Examination, gave us but a poor

account of your health.

IThis kind of thing won't do, you know. Here is                                       ill, and
I doing all
                  can to persuade him to go away and take care of

himself, and now comes ill news of you.
If IIs it dyspeps again ?
                                              so follow in my steps.       tmheea"n    to go
                                                                                      horrid
eaxbaomupt lethe"--cocuunrteryd,.  with somebody who can lecture,      as
                                     Nothing but gross and disgusting
ISir, was the cause of all my evil. And now that                       intemperance,

                                                                           have been a

teetotaller for nine months, and have cut down my food supply to

Iabout half of what used to eat, the enemy is beaten.
    I have carried my own permissive bill, and no canteen (except

         friends    who            still sit  leinttedrarkInehsasv)e  is allowed on the premises.
           this   is the            third                             written before breakfast (a
Ifor my

And as

thing I
           never could achieve in the days when wallowed in the
Istye of Epicurus), you perceive that am as vigorous as ever I was

in my life.

     Let me have news of you, and believe me -- Ever yours very
                                                                       T. H. H.
faithfully,

                                                                      Athenaeum Club,

                                                                      Nov. 3, 1873.

    Mr dear Darwin --You                      will have               heard (in fact I think I
mentioned the matter when I                   paid you
                                                                      my pleasant visit the other

day) that         is ill and obliged to go away for six months to a
warm climate. It is a great grief to me, as he is a man for whom I

have great esteem and affection, apart from his high scientific merits,
Iand his symptoms are such as cause very grave anxiety.
                                                                           shall be
happily disappointed if that accursed consumption has not got hold

of him.

     The college authorities have behaved as well as they possibly

could to him, and I do not suppose that his enforced retirement for

a while gives him the least pecuniary anxiety as his people are all well

off, and he himself has an income apart from his college pay.

Nevertheless, under such circumstances, a man with half a dozen

404          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, xxvu

children always wants all the money he can lay hands on ; and

whether he does or no, he ought not to be allowed to deprive himself
of any, which leads me to the gist of my letter. His name was on

your list as one of those hearty friends who came to my rescue last

Iyear, and it was the only name which made me a little uneasy, for

doubted whether it was right for a man with his responsibilities to
Imake sacrifices of this sort. However,
                                           stifled that feeling, not
Iseeing what else I could do without wounding him. But now my

conscience won't let me be, and do not think that any considera

tion ought to deter me from getting his contribution back to him

somehow or other. There is no one to whose judgment on a point
I Iof honour would defer more readily than yours, and am quite
Isure you will agree with me.
                               really am quite unhappy and
ashamed to think of myself as vigorous and well at the expense of

his denying himself any rich man's caprice he might take a fancy to.

     I ISo, my dear, good friend, let me know what his contribution was,
that may get it back to  him somehow  or   other, even   if    go like
Nicodemus privily and    by night to  his                Ever    yours
                                            bankers. --

faithfully,                                T. H. H.




I

                    CHAPTER XXVIII

                            1874

My father's health continued fairly good in 1874, and while
careful to avoid excessive strain he was able to undertake

nearly as much as before his illness outside his regular work

at South Kensington, the Royal Society, and on the Royal

Commission. To this year belong three important essays,

educational and philosophical. From February 25 to March
3 he was at Aberdeen, staying first with Professor Bain,
afterwards with Mr. Webster, in fulfilment of his first duty
as Lord Rector1 to deliver an address to the students.
Taking as his subject " Universities, Actual and Ideal," he

then proceeded to vindicate, historically and philosophically,
the claims of natural science to take the place from which it

had so long been ousted in the universal culture which a

University professes to give. More especially he demanded
an improved system of education in the medical school, a
point to which he gave practical effect in the Council of the

University.

   IIn an ideal University, as conceive        man should be able
                                               it,
                                                   a
                                                            is
to obtain instruction in all forms of knowledge, and discipline in
                                                                obtained. In
the use of all the methods;               which knowledge
                        a
such University the force of living example should fire the student
   aa                                 by
with noble ambition to emulate the learning of learned men, and

to follow in the footsteps of the explorers of new fields of knowledge.

And the very air he breathes should be charged with that enthusiasm

for truth, that fanaticism of veracity, which  is          greater possession
                                                   a

than much learning  nobler gift than the power of increasing

       It may be noted that between 1860 and 1890 he and Professor Bain were1
the only Lord Rectors of Aberdeen University elected on non-political grounds.

4od LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, jcxvih

knowledge ; by so much greater and nobler than these, as the moral
nature of man is greater than the intellectual ; for veracity is the
heart of morality. (Coll. Ess. iii, 189, sqq.)

     As for the "so-called  'conflict of studies,'"                                                 he

exclaims --

     One might as well inquire which of the terms of a Rule of Three
sum one ought to know in order to get a trustworthy result.
Practical life is such a sum, in which your duty multiplied into your
capacity and divided by your circumstances gives you the fourth
term in the proportion, which is your deserts, with great accuracy.

      The knowledge on which medical practice should be
based is " the sort of practical, familiar, finger-end knowledge
which a watchmaker has of a watch," the knowledge gained
in the dissecting-room and laboratory,

becoUmnetilaneaocrhgaonficthpeargt reoafteyroutrrumthisndosf--aunanttoilmyyouanwdoupldhyksinoolowgythhemas
if you were roused and questioned in the middle of the night, as a

man knows the geography of his native place and the daily life of

his home. That is the sort of knowledge which, once obtained, is a
                                                                               minds-- it may
life-long possession.  toObtheefrorogcoctutepnat--ionbsutmtahyerfeill   your
grow dim and seem                                                      it     like the inscrip
      it.

         is
             is is

             it I a
                                                                    a
                                                                    a
                                                                                     is is,
                                                                                      is
                                                                                               it,
tion on a battered and defaced coin, which comes out when you

warm

      Hence the necessity to concentrate the attention on

these cardinal truths, and to discard number of extraneous

subjects commonly supposed to be requisite whether for

general culture of the medical student or to enable him to

correct the possible mistakes of druggists.                                   Against this
" Latin fetish " in medical education, as he used to call
                                                                                                    he

carried on lifelong campaign, as may be gathered from

his published essays on medical education, and from letters

given in later chapters of this book. But there another

side to such limitation in professional training. Though

literature an essential in the preliminary, general education,

culture not solely dependent upon classics.

Moreover,  would urge that  thorough study of Human

Physiology in itself an education broader and more comprehensive

than much that passes under that name. There                                  no side of the

intellect which does not call into play, no region of human know

1874 LORD RECTOR OF ABERDEEN                               407

ledge into which either its roots or its branches do not extend; like
the Atlantic between the Old and the New Worlds, its waves wash the
shores of the two worlds of matter and of mind ; its tributary streams
flow from both ; through its waters, as yet unfurrowed by the keel of
any Columbus, lies the road, if such there be, from the one to the
other ; far away from that North-west Passage of mere speculation,
in which so many brave souls have been hopelessly frozen up.

     Of the address he writes to his wife, February 27 :--

    I have just come back from the hall in which the address was

delivered, somewhat tired. The hall was very large, and contained,

I suppose, a couple of thousand people, and the students made a

terrific row at intervals, though they were quiet enough at times.

IAs the address took me an hour and a half to deliver, and my voice
has been very shaky ever since I have been here, did not dare to

put too much strain upon and suspect that the people at the end
of the hall could have heard very little. However, on the whole,
went off better than expected.

     And to Professor Baynes --
I                                                          a
                  I
                                                              iIf
                                          it,                          I

                                  :I                                                      a it
am very glad you liked my address. The students were

abnormally quiet for the first half hour, and then made up for

their reticence by a regular charivari for the rest of the time.

However, was consoled by hearing that they were much quieter
           I
than usual.      I                                         worth having. It did not occur
                     I

                                                       is
Dr. John Muir's appreciation
to me that what had to say would interest people out of Britain,

but to my surprise     had an application from             German for per

mission to translate the address the other day.

Again to his wife, March --
                                1
                                   :

...              was considerably tired after my screed on Friday, but
I
           a II
Bain and took a long walk, and was fresh again by dinnertime.
                                I
                                  I
dined with the Senators at hotel in the town, and of course had
                             a

to make speech or two. However cut all that as fast as could.

They were all very apologetic for the row the students made. After

the dinner one of the Professors came to ask me            would have

any objection to attend service in the College Chapel on Sunday as

the students would like it.  said was quite ready to do anything
it

               I
                                I
                                        I
was customary for the Rector to do, and so this morning in half an

hour's time      shall be enduring the pains and penalties of

Presbyterian service.
There was to have been another meeting of the University

Court yesterday, but the Principal was suffering so much from an

4°8 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxv111

I Iaffection of the lungs that I adjourned the meeting till tomorrow.

Did tell you that carried all my resolutions about improving the

medical curriculum ? Fact, though greatly to my astonishment.

To-morrow we go in for some reforms in the arts curriculum, and I

Iexpect that     the job  will be  tougher.   --  Scotsman,         with a very  good
           send  you a    couple   of papers

leading article, and the Aberdeen Herald also with a leading article,
which is as much favourable as was to be expected. . . . The

Websters are making me promise to bring you and one of the

Ichildren here next autumn.

    March 2. -- My work here
                                   They are wonderfully kind people.             of
                                   finishes to-day. There is a meeting

the Council at one o'clock, and before that am to go and look over

laboratories and collections with sundry Professors. Then there is
Ithe supper at half-past eight and the inevitable speeches, for which
Iam not in the least inclined at present.
                                                  went officially to the

College Chapel yesterday, and went through a Presbyterian service

for the first time in my life. May it be the last !

Then to lunch at Professor Struthers' and back here for a small
Idinner party.
                  am standing it all well, for the weather is villanous
Iand there is no getting any exercise.
                                                  shall leave here by the

twelve o'clock train to-morrow.

On August 2 he delivered an address on " Joseph

Priestley" {Coll. Ess. iii. 1), at Birmingham, on the occasion
of the presentation of a statue of Priestley to that town.

The biography of this pioneer of science and of political

reform, who was persecuted for opinions that have in less

than a century become commonplaces of orthodox thought,

suggested a comparison between those times and this, and

evoked a sincere if not very enthusiastic tribute to one who

had laboured to better the world, not for the sake of worldly

honour, but for the sake of truth and right.

As the way to Birmingham lay through Oxford, he was

asked by Professor Ray Lankester, then a Fellow of
University College, if he could not break his journey there,

and inspect      the results of his           investigations        on Lymnaeus.
The answer
                 was as follows :--

We go to Birmingham on Friday by the three o'clock train, but

there is no chance of stopping at Oxford either going or coming, so

that unless you   bring a  Lymnaeus or        tIwsoha(lul nndoet r   guise of periwinkles
for refreshment)   to the  carriage door                            be able to see them.

The following letters refer both to this address on

i874 ADDRESS AT BELFAST                                                                                                                  409

Priestley, and to the third of the important addresses of this
year, that " On the Hypothesis that Animals are Automata,
and its History" (Coll. Ess. i. 199, see also p. 442 below).
The latter was delivered at Belfast before the British
Association under Tyndall's presidency. It appears that only

a month before, he had not so much as decided upon his

subject -- indeed, was thinking of something quite different.

      The first allusion in these letters is to a concluding
phase of Tyndall's controversy upon the claims of the late

Principal Forbes in the matter of Glacier theory :--

                                   4 Marlborough Place London, N.W.,
                                                      June 24, 1874.

    My dear Tyndall -- I quite agree with your Scotch friend in his

estimate of Forbes, and if he were alive and the controversy beginning

II should say draw your picture in your best sepia or lamp black. But

I have been thinking over this matter a good deal since received your

letter, and my verdict leave that tempting piece of portraiture alone.
                 is
                              is,

                                                                      it
The world neither wise nor just, but makes up for all its

folly and injustice by being damnably sentimental, and the more

severely true your portrait might be the more loud would be the

outcry against it.  should say publish                                  new edition of your
I
        I

               if

                           a

                     I
                      I
                           Ia

                                                is
                                                            a

                                                             is

                                                          if a

                                                     I
                                                               I

                                                                                                                                        !

                                                                     I
Glaciers of the Alps, make clear historical statement of all the facts
showing Forbes's relations to Rendu and Agassiz, and leave the

matter to the judgment of your contemporaries.                            That will sink in

and remain when all the hurly-burly over.

wonder that address                begun, and you are going to be as

wise and prudent as was at Liverpool. When think of the

temptation        resisted    on"  that occasion, like                    Clive when         he                                          was
charged with     peculation,         marvel at my own                     forbearance        "
                                                                                                                                         Let

my example be burning and shining light to you.                                              declare

haveThheorr"idx  m" icsogmiviensgsoffofonyoSuartukridcakyingneoxvte, r    the traces.  ears  burn,                                       for
                                                                        so let your

we shall be talking about you.     have just begun my lectures to
I

         1

                 I
                     I
                                        I

                                         I
                                                       is I

                                                                               it I
Schoolmasters, and wish they were over, though am very well on

the whole.

Griffith wrote to ask for the title of my lecture at Belfast, and
                                   shall not begin to think of
had to tell him did not know yet.

till the middle of July when these lectures are over.

The wife would send her love, but she has gone to Kew to one

of Hooker's receptions, taking Miss Jewsbury,* who staying with us.

was to have gone to the College of Physicians' dinner to-night, but

        Miss Geraldine Jewsbury (181 2-80) the novelist, and friend of the Carlyles.
After 1866 she lived at Sevenoaks.

            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxviii

I was so weary when I got home that I made up my mind to send
an excuse. And then came the thought that I had not written to
you. -- Ever yours sincerely,           T. H. Huxley.

     The following is in reply to Tyndall, who had written

from Switzerland on July --1 5 :

    I confess to you that I am far more anxious about your condi
tion than about my own ; for I fear that after your London labour
the labour of this lecture will press heavily upon you. I wish to

Heaven it could be transferred to other shoulders.

    I wish I could get rid of the uncomfortable idea that I have

drawn upon you at a time when your friend and brother ought to
be anxious to spare you every labour. . . .

    PS. -- Have just seen the Swiss Times ; am intensely disgusted
Ito find that while was brooding over the calamities possibly con

sequent on your lending me a hand, that you have been at the Derby
Statue, and are to make an oration apropos of the Priestley Statue
in Birmingham on the 1st August ! ! !

                               4  Marlborough Place, London,        S.W.,
                                                July 22, 1874.

My dear Tyndall-- I hope you have been taking more care

of your instep than you did of your leg in old times. Don't try

mortifying the flesh again.

    I was uncommonly amused at your disgustful wind up after
writing me such a compassionate letter. I am as jolly as a sandboy

so long as I live on a minimum and drink no alcohol, and as
vigorous as ever I was in my life. But a late dinner wakes up my
demoniac colon and gives me a fit of blue devils with physical

precision.
Don't believe that I am at all the places in which the news
Ipapers put me. For example,
                                        was not at the Lord Mayor's
Idinner last night. As for Lord Derby's statue, wanted to get a
                                        I help to pay Dizzie's salary,
lesson in the art of statue unveiling.
I Iso don't see why should not get a wrinkle from that artful

dodger.

    I plead guilty to having accepted the Birmingham invitation.*
I thought they deserved to be encouraged for having asked a man

of science to do the job instead of some noble swell ; and, moreover,

Satan whispered that it would be a good opportunity for a little

ventilation of wickedness. I cannot say, however, that I can work

     1 To deliver the address at the opening of the Mason College.  It was on
Joseph Priestley.

i874 ANIMAL AUTOMATISM                                                           411

myself up into much enthusiasm for the dry old Unitarian who did

not go very deep into anything. But I think I may make him a

good peg whereon to hang a discourse on the tendencies of modern

thought.

    I was not at the Cambridge pow-wow -- not out of prudence, but
because I was not asked. I suppose that decent respect towards a

secretary of the Royal Society was not strong enough to outweigh

University objections to the incumbent of that office. It is well for
me that I expect nothing from Oxford or Cambridge, having burned

my ships so far as they were concerned long ago.

    I Isent your note on to Knowles as soon as it arrived, but
Ihave heard nothing from him.
                               wrote to him again to-night to say
that he had better let me see it in proof if he is going to print it.

II am right glad you find anything worth reading again in my old
papers. I stand by the view took of the origin of species now as

much as ever.

     Shall I not see the address ? It is tantalising to hear of your

progress, and not to know what is in

         am thinking of taking Development for the subject of my
I                              it.
                                                           it
   is                                                          is
evening lecture,1 the concrete facts made out in the last thirty years
without reference to Evolution. If people see that
                                                                   Evolution,

that Nature's fault, and not mine.

     We are all flourishing, and send our love. -- Ever yours faithfully,
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

The paper on Animal Automatism             in effect an en
                                           a is
                                                           a
largement of short paper read before the Metaphysical
       a

Society in 1871, under the title of " Has  Frog                    Soul?"
It begins with a vindication of Descartes as a great physio

logist, doing for the physiology of motion and sensation that

which Harvey had done for the circulation of the blood. A

series of propositions which constitute the foundation and

essence of the modern physiology of the nervous system, are

fully expressed and illustrated in the writings of Descartes.

Modern physiological research, which has shown that many

apparently purposive acts are performed by animals, and
even by men, deprived of consciousness, and therefore of

volition, at least compatible with the theory of automatism
1

              is

                                                                             if
in animals, although the doctrine of continuity forbids the
belief that " such complex phenomena as those of conscious

ness first make their appearance in man." And                                    the

volitions of animals do not enter into the chain of causation

i.e. At the British Association, he actually took " Animals as Automata."

412

of their actions at all, the fact lays at rest the question,
" How is it possible to imagine that volition, which is a
state of consciousness, and, as such, has not the slightest
community of nature with matter in motion, can act upon
the moving matter of which the body is composed, as it is
assumed to do in voluntary acts ? "

     As for man, the argumentation, if sound, holds equally
good. States of consciousness are immediately caused by

molecular changes of the brain-substance, and our mental
conditions are simply the symbols in consciousness of the

changes which take place automatically in the organism.
     As for the bugbear of the " logical consequences " of this

conviction, " I may be permitted to remark (he says), that
logical consequences are the scarecrows of fools and the
beacons of wise men." And if St. Augustine, Calvin, and

Jonathan Edwards have held in substance the view that
men are conscious automata, to hold this view does not

constitute a man a fatalist, a materialist, nor an atheist.
And he takes occasion once more to declare that he ranks

among none of these philosophers.

     Not among fatalists, for I take the conception of necessity to

Ihave a logical, and not a physical foundation ; not among material

ists, for am utterly incapable of conceiving the existence of matter
if there is no mind in which to picture that existence; not among
atheists, for the problem of the ultimate cause of existence is one
which seems to me to be hopelessly out of reach of my poor powers.

Of all the senseless babble I have ever had occasion to read, the

demonstrations of these philosophers who undertake to tell us all
about the nature of God would be the worst, if they were not

surpassed by the still greater absurdities of the philosophers who

try to prove that there is no God.

     This essay was delivered as an evening address on

August 24, the Monday of the Association week. A vast

stir had been created by the treatment of deep reaching

problems in Professor Tyndall's presidential address ; interest

was still further excited by this unexpected excursion into

metaphysics. " I remember," writes Sir M. Foster, " having a

talk with him  about the lecture before he  gave it. I think
                                             out what he was
I went to his  lodgings -- and he sketched

going to say. The question was whether, in view of the

I874 A DIFFICULT SPEECH                                               413

Tyndall row, it was wise in him to take the line he had

marked out. In the end I remember his saying, ' Grasp

your nettle, that is what I have got to do.' " But apart

from the subject, the manner of the address struck the

audience as a wonderful tour de force. The man who at first
disliked public speaking, and always expected to break down

on the platform, now, without note or reference of any kind,

discoursed for an hour and a half upon a complex and

difficult subject, in the very words which he had thought out

and afterwards published.

     This would have been a remarkable achievement if he

had planned to do so and had learned up his speech ; but

the fact was that he was compelled to speak off-hand on the

spur of the moment.    He describes the situation in a letter
of February 6, 1 894,
                       to Professor Ray Lankester :--

    I Iknew that      was treading on very dangerous ground, so I

wrote out uncommonly full and careful notes, and had them in my
hand when I stepped on to the platform.
    IThen, suddenly became aware of the bigness of the audience,
Iand the conviction came upon me that, if looked at my notes, not
Ione half would hear me. It was a bad ten seconds, but
                                                                      made

Imy election and turned the notes face downwards on the desk.

     To this day, do not exactly know how the thing managed to

roll itself out ; but it did, as you say, for the best part of an hour

and a half.

     There's a story pour vous encourager if you are ever in a like fix.

    He writes home on August 20 :--

      Johnny's address went off exceedingly well last night. There
was a mighty gathering in the Ulster Hall, and he delivered his

Ispeech very well. The meeting promises to be a good one, as

there are over 1 800 members already, and daresay they will mount

up to 2000 before the end. The Hookers' arrangements1 all went

I Ito smash as rather expected they would, but have a very good
Iclean lodging well outside the town where I can be quiet if like,
I Iand on the whole think that is better, as shall be able to work

up  my lectures   in   peace. . .    .                                The weather
    August 2 1.       Everything
                 --                is   going  on  very  well  here.

is delightful, and under these circumstances my lodgings here with

John Ball for a companion turns out to be a most excellent arrangement.

     1 i.e. for the members of the jr-club and their wives to club together at
Belfast.

4M LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxviii

nient. I need not say that I was speaking more or less all day long.

Ca va sans dire, though, by the way, that is a bull induced by the
Ilocality. I am not going on any of the excursions on Sunday.
                                                                                                              am
Igoing to have a quiet day here when everybody will suppose that
have accepted everybody else's invitation to be somewhere else. The

Ulster Hall, in which the addresses are delivered, seems to me to be
a terrible room to speak in, and I mean to nurse my energies all
Monday. I sent you a cutting from one of the papers containing
an account of me that will amuse you. The writer is evidently

Idisappointed that am not a turbulent savage.

August 25 :--

I. . . My work is over and I start for Kingstown, where mean
Ito sleep to-night, in an hour.
                                   have just sent you a full and
excellent report of my lecture.f I am glad to say it was a complete
success. I never was in better voice in my life, and I spoke for an

hour and a half without notes, the people listening as still as mice.
There has been a great row about Tyndall's address, and I had
some reason to expect that I should have to meet a frantically
warlike audience. But it was quite otherwise, and though I spoke
Imy mind with very great plainness I never had a warmer reception.
And I am not without hope that     have done something to allay
... Ithe storm, though, as you may be sure, I did not sacrifice plain
speaking to that end.     have been most creditably quiet here,

Iand have gone to no dinners or breakfasts or other such fandangoes
except those I accepted before leaving home.                                                          Sunday  spent

Iquietly here, thinking over my lecture and putting my peroration,
which required a good deal of care, into shape.                                                       wandered out

into the fields in the afternoon, and sat a long time thinking of all
Ithat had happened since
                          was here a young beginner, two and

twenty, and . . . you were largely in my thoughts, which were full

of blessings and tender memories.
II had a good night's work last night.
                                        dined with the Presi
Ident of the College, then gave my lecture. After that smoked a
Ibit with Foster till eleven o'clock, and then went to the Northern
Whig office to see that the report of my lecture was all right. It is

Ithe best paper here, and the Editor had begged me to see to the
report, and I was anxious myself that should be rightly repre
sented. So I sat there till a quarter past one having the report read
Iand correcting it when necessary. Then I came home and got to
bed about two.  have just been to the section and read my paper

there to a large audience who cannot have understood ten words of

but who looked highly edified, and now                                                                have done. Our
it,

                                    1
                                                                                                   :

                                                       I
lodging has turned out admirably, and Ball's company has been

                " On Animals as Automata" see above.

1874 LETTER TO PARKER                                                                            415

very pleasant.  So that the fiasco of our arrangements was all for
the best.

     I take the account of this last mentioned                        paper in

Section D from the report in Nature: --

     Professor Huxley opened the last day of the session with an
account of his recent observations on the development of the
Columella auris in Amphibia. (He described it as an outgrowth of
the periotic capsule, and therefore unconnected with any visceral

arch). . . .

     In the absence of Mr. Parker there was no one competent to
criticise the paper from personal knowledge ; but a word dropped as
to the many changes in the accepted homologies of the ossicula
auditus, elicited a masterly and characteristic exposition of the series
of new facts, and the modifications of the theory they have led
to, from Reichert's first observations down to the present time.
The embryonic structures grew and shaped themselves on the
board, and shifted their relations in accordance with the views of
successive observers, until a graphic epitome of the progress of

knowledge on the subject was completed.

      He and Parker indeed (to whom he signs himself,
" Ever yours amphibially ") had been busy, not only through
out 1 874, but for several years earlier, examining the

development of the Amphibia, with a particular view to the

whole theory of the vertebrate skull, for which he had done

similar work    Painrke1r8:5--7      and      1858.  Thus in May 4, 1870,
he writes to

I Iand
a  read all      the   moosftwiomrkpoirttaisn--t pmaortreofimypoourrtanFtr,og-pathpienrk,laisnt  night,
   grand        piece                                                                            all its

Ibearings than anything you have done yet.
From which premisses                      am going to draw a conclusion which

you do not expect, namely, that the paper must by no manner of

means    gofolilnotwointghe:--Royal  Society  in its present  shape.  And for the
reasons

In the first place, the style is ultra- Parkerian.            From a literary
point of view, my dear friend, you remind me of nothing so much

as a dog going home. He has a goal before him which he will

certainly reach sooner or later, but first he is on this side the road,

and now on that ; anon, he stops to scratch at an ancient rat-hole,

or maybe he catches sight of another dog, a quarter of a mile
behind, and bolts off to have a friendly, or inimical sniff. In fact,

his course is . . . (here a tangled maze is drawn) not                . In the

41 6

second place, you must begin with an earlier stage. . . . That is
the logical starting-point of the whole affair.

     Will you come and dine at 6 on Saturday, and talk over the
whole business?

    If you have drawings of earlier stages you might bring them.
I suspect that what is wanted might be supplied in plenty of time to

get the paper in.

      In 1874 he re-dissects the skull of Axolotl to clear up
the question as to the existence of the " ventral head or

Ifpedicle " which Parker failed to observe : " you disbelieve

in that pedicle again, I shall be guilty of an act of personal
violence." Later, " I am benevolent to all the world, being

possessed of a dozen live axolotls and four or five big dead
mesobranchs. Moreover, I am going to get endless Frogs

and Toads by judicious exchange with Gunther. We will

work   up   the Amphibia     as they have  not                   been     done  since
they  were                   evolved."1
             crea -- I mean

      The question of the pedicle comes up again when he

simplifies some of Parker's results as to the development
of the Columella auris in the Frog. " Your suprahyoman-

dibular is nothing but the pedicle of the suspensorium over
again. It has nothing whatever to do with the columella

auris. . . . The whole thing will come out as simply as

possible without any of your coalescences and combothera-

tions. How you will hate me and the pedicle."

      Tracing the development of the columella was a long

business, but it grew clearer as young frogs of various ages
were examined. " Don't be aggravated with yourself," he
writes to Parker in July, " it's tough work, this here Frog."
And on August 5 : " I have worked over Toad and I have
                             I
worked over Frog, and              tefilgl maennto--bstoirnaate    man    that s.h.m.
(suprahyomandibular) is         a                                vessel,  whichever

said obstinate man pleases." The same letter contains what

he calls his final views on the columella, but by the end of

the year he has gone further, and writes :--

     Be prepared to bust -up with all the envy of which your
malignant nature is capable. The problem of the vertebrate skull
is solved. Fourteen segments or thereabouts in Amphioxus ; all but

    1 Dr. A. C. L. G. Gunther, of the British Museum, where he was appointed
Keeper of the Department of Zoology in 1875.

1874 LETTER TO THE "TIMES"                                           417

one (barring possibilities about the ear capsule) aborted in higher
vertebrata. Skull and brain of Amphioxus shut up like an opera-

      in higher vertebrata.  So ! (Sketch in illustration).
                             will understand the whole affair
      PS. -- am sure you
Ihat                                                           from  this.

Probably published it already in Nature !

      A letter to the Times of July 8, 1874, on women's edu

cation, was evoked by the following circumstances. Miss

Jex Blake's difficulties in obtaining a medical education
have already been referred to (p. 415). A further discour

agement was her rejection at the Edinburgh examination.
Her papers, however, were referred to Huxley, who decided

that certain answers were not up to the standard.

     As Miss Jex Blake may possibly think that my decision was
influenced by prejudice against her cause, allow me to add that

such prejudice as I labour under lies in the opposite direction.

Without seeing any reason to believe that women are, on the

average, so strong physically, intellectually, or morally, as men, I

Icannot shut my eyes to the fact that many women are much better

endowed in all these respects than many men, and am at a loss to

understand on what grounds of justice or public policy a career

which is open to the weakest and most foolish of the male sex
should be forcibly closed to women of vigour and capacity.

      We have heard a great deal lately about the physical disabilities
of women. Some of these alleged impediments, no doubt, are really

--inhtehreentproidnuctthseirofortghaenirisamtioodne, s  but nine-tenths of them are artificial

                                                        of life. I believe that nothing would

tend   so   e"ffeovcteuralslytimtoulagteitonridofotfhetheesmeotciroenastio"nswhoicfh,idliennepslsa,inewre-saproinkeesns,
and   that

days, used to be called wantonness, than a fair share of healthy

work, directed towards a definite object, combined with an equally

fair share of healthy play, during the years of adolescence ; and
those who are best acquainted with the acquirements of an average

medical practitioner will find it hardest to believe that the attempt

to reach that standard is like to prove exhausting to an ordinarily

intelligent and well-educated young woman.

      The Marine Biological Station at Naples was still

struggling for existence, and to my father's interest in it is

due the following letter, one of several to Dr. Dohrn, whose

marriage took place this summer :--

                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                           June 24, 1874.

     My dear Dohrn -- Are you married yet or are you not ? It is

very awkward to congratulate a man upon what may not have

      VOL. I                                                   2E

4i8

Ihapp»ened to him, but shall assume that you are a benedict, and

send my own and my wife's and all the happy family's good wishes
                           May you have as good a wife and as much a " happy
I Ifaacmcoilyrdi"ngasly.                                         you --
                                            would                               the hardness  of the
times being                                to be                   with           fewer than
                  hcaovnes,idtehroeudgh--             advise                                   seven
                                                      satisfied

members thereof.

    I hear excellent accounts of the progress of the Station from
Lankester, and I hope that it is now set on its legs permanently.

As for the English contribution, you must look upon it simply as
the expression of the hearty goodwill of your many friends in the

land of fogs, and             of our strong feeling that         w--ahsebraeoumynoaduttethoraddoofsawdchuratiyfti,c--wede
so much for the              cause of science, we were,

quite apart from             goodwill to you personally

could, each according to his ability.                            generous -- one

        Darwin               in all things, noble                                    of those
la                                                    and
                      is,

                               it
                                         a

                                      of

                                                    is

                                                I
                                                                                   is
                                                       I

                                                                                                                                          ?

                                                                  I
people who think             privilege to let him help.                             know he was

very pleased with what you said to him. He working away at a

new edition of the Descent Man, for which have given him some

notes on the brain question.

        And apropos of that how your own particular brain                                                                                    back

   belle M      particauglaarinystEsaculllatphieus,phyDsri.ciaCnlsarkin--tthoe  world -- -even against
mine own                                                                        find the sovereignest

remedy     amgeainhsetarthferomblueyoude--vilsm. ost  abominable                of  correspondents                                           as
      Let

   am. And        wh--y       don't you    send Madame's                        phTo.toHgr.apHhuxtlheayt . you
                             Ever yours    very faithfully,
have promised
it I            it I
    1I IPray give my kind remembrances to your father.?

                                                                 Marlborough Place,
                                                                 4

                                                                           it is

                                                                                  I
                                                                    March 31, 1874.

        My dear Darwin --The brain business1                                        more than half

done, and                  will soon polish           off and send                  to you. We are
                                 is
                                           a
                                            it
going down to Folkestone for week on Thursday, and shall take

        with me.

                 do not know what doing about Dohrn's business at present.

        Foster took in hand, but the last time heard he was waiting for
        reports from Dew and Balfour.

             You have been very generous as always and hope that other
                                                      I

                                                             ;

                                                            I
                                                               I
        folk may follow your example, but like yourself am not sanguine.

          have had an awfully tempting offer to go to Yankee-land on a

        lecturing expedition, and  I         am seriously thinking of making an

        experiment next spring.

        The chance of clearing two or three thousand pounds in as

              A note on the brain in man and the apes for the second edition of the

        Descent Man.
           of

i«74 LETTERS TO DARWIN                                                              419

many months is not to      be  sneezed at    --byEvaepr iryeourdse  famille.     I  am
getting sick of the state  of  things here.                         faithfully,
                                                      T. H. Huxley.

I have heard no more about the spirit photographs !

                                             4 Marlborough Place,
                                                    April 16, 1874.

My dear Darwin -- Put my contribution into the smallest

type possible, for it will be read by none but anatomists ; and never

mind where it goes.

    I am glad you agree with me about the hand and foot and skull
                               Mill's opinions,
question. As Ward1 said of     and Co. on the         you can only    a"ccgorauvnet
for the views of Messrs.                              supposition of
personal sin " on their part.
I had a letter from Dohrn a day or two ago in which he tells
Ime he has written
                                         he has been very           ill.
      Let us know                       town, and believe
               to you.         suspect                                me, -- Ever
               when you        are in                 T. H. Huxley.

yours very faithfully,

     The allusion in the letter of March 31, to certain "spirit
photographs " refers to a series of these wonderful produc
tions sent to him by a connection of Mr. Darwin's, who was

interested in these matters, and to whom he replied, showing

how the effect might have been produced by simple

mechanical means.

It was at this gentleman's house that in January a

carefully organised seance was held, at which my father was

present incognito, so far as the medium was concerned, and

on which he wrote the following report to Mr. Darwin,

referred to in his Life, vol. iii. p. 187.

    It must be noted that he had had fairly extensive ex

perience of spiritualism ; he had made regular experiments

with Mrs. Haydon at his brother George's house (the paper
on which these are recorded is undated, but it must have been

before 1863) ; he was referred to as a disbeliever in an article

in the Pall Mall Gazette during January 1 869, as a sequel

to which a correspondent sent him an account of the con

fessions of the Fox girls, who had started spiritualism forty
               At the houses of other friends, he had
years before.

attended seances and met mediums, by whom he was most

unfavourably impressed.

                        1 W. G. Ward. (See p. 3 14.)

420 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxvm

      Moreover, when invited to join a                                          committee                  of investi
gation into spiritualistic manifestations,                                       he replied
                                                                                                           :--

I regret that I am unable to accept the invitation of the Com

mthietteineveosftigtahteionDiaolef ct"icSapl iriStoucaileitsym  to     co-operate   with a committee             for
                                                                "       and for                                  the
                                                                                   two reasons. In
                                                                    ;
Ifirst place, have not time for such an inquiry, which would involve
Imuch trouble and (unless it were unlike all inquiries of that kind
Ihave known)                                                    In                                             take no
Iinterest in the                                                                                              have had
         much annoyance.                                        case   the   "  sSepcoirnitdualpislamce,"
         subject. The only                                             of

the opportunity of examining into for myself, was as gross an impos

ture as ever came under   my notice.                                    But  supposing the phenomena
                          not interest
to be genuine -- they do                                               me.   If anybody would endow

me with the faculty of listening to the chatter of old women and

curates in the nearest cathedral town, I should decline the privilege,
having better things to do. And if the folk in the spiritual world

do not talk more wisely and sensibly than their friends report them
I Ito do,

see in
   put them in the        same category.                                 The only good that can
the demonstration         of the truth of                              " Spiritualism " is to furnish

an additional argument against                                  suicide.           Better  live            a   crossing-
sweeper than die and be made                                    to talk         twaddle    by a            "  medium "

hired at a guinea a seance.*

     To the report above mentioned, Prof. G. Darwin, who

also was present, added one or two notes and corrections.

         Report on Seance

                                                                                           Jan. 27, 1874.

     We met in a small room at the top of the house with a window
capable of being completely darkened by a shutter and curtains
opposite the door. A small light table with two flaps and four legs,

unsteady and easily moved, occupied the middle of the room,

leaving not much more than enough space for the chairs at the

sides. There was a chair at each end, two chairs on the fireplace
                                Mr. X (the
side, and one on the other.   Y (the host)                                   medium) was seated in the
chair at the door end, Mr.                                                   in the opposite chair, Mr.

G. Darwin on the medium's right, Mr. Huxley on his left, Mr. Z

between Mr. Huxley and Mr. Darwin. The table was small enough

to allow these five people to rest their hands on                                  a         linking them
                                                                                      it,
                                                                                                                 it,
together. On the table was guitar which lay obliquely across
an accordion on the medium's side of the guitar, couple of paper
         a
                       a
horns, Japanese fan, matchbox, and candlestick with candle.
1                                                                      a                                      a

      a
       Quoted from a review in the Daily News, October 17, 187 of the Report               1,
on Spiritualism of the Committee of the London Dialectical Society.

1874 A SPIRITUALISTIC STANCE                                          421

At first the room was slightly darkened (leaving plenty of light

from the window, however) and we all sat round for half an hour.
My right foot was against the medium's left foot, and two fingers of

my right hand had a good grip of the little finger of his left hand.

I compared my hand (which is not small and is strong) with his,

and was edified by its much greater massiveness and strength.

(No, we didn't link until the darkness.        G. D.)       medium's  right
                                               linked with
    G. D.'s left hand was, as I learn,

hand, and left foot on medium's left [right] foot.

We sat thus for half an hour as aforesaid and nothing happened.

The room was next thoroughly darkened by shutting the

shutters and drawing the curtains.             Nevertheless, by great good
fortune I espied three points of light, coming from the lighted

passage outside the door. One of these came beneath the door

straight to my eye, the other two were on the wall (or on a press)
obliquely opposite. By still greater good fortune, these three points

of light had such a position in reference to my eye that they gave

me three straight lines traversing and bounding the space in which the
Imedium sat, and       at once saw that if medium moved his body

forwards or backwards he must occult one of my three rays. While

therefore taking care to feel his foot and keep a good grip of his
Ihand, I fixed my eyes intently on rays A and B. For
                                                                      felt sure
that I could trust to G. D. keeping a sharp look-out on the right
hand and foot ; and so no instrument of motion was left to the

medium but his body and head, the movements of which could not

have been discernible in absolute darkness. Nothing happened for
some time. At length a very well executed muscular twitching of

the arm on my side began, and I amused myself by comparing it

with the convulsions of a galvanised frog's leg, but at the same time
kept a very bright look- out on my two rays A and B.
     The                                                                A was shut
out. B    twitchings ceased, and then            after a little time    " Ho ho ! "
                                                                      Now we are
thought   tIh, e"n   became obscure,    and    A became visible.
                    Medium's head     is well
                                                 over the table.

going to have some manifestations."            Immediately followed a noise

obviously produced by     the  tumbling        over of   tchaemaeccaotrwdiaonnginagnd--sovemrey
shifting of the position       the guitar.         Next
                          of

slight, but of course very audible-- of some of the strings, during

which B was invisible. By and by B and A became visible again,

and Medium's voice likewise showed that he had got back to his

first position. But after he had returned to this position there was

a noise of the guitar and other things on the table being stirred, and

creeping noises like something light moving over the table. But no

more actual twanging.

   To my great disgust G. D. now began to remark that he saw two

spots of light, which I suppose must have had the same origin as my
rays A and B, and, moreover, that something occasionally occulted

422 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxvm

one or other     of them. (Note : No, not         till we changed places,
                 blessed him for spoiling my      game, but the effect was
G. H. D.) I
excellent. Nothing more happened. By and by, after some talk

about these points of light, the medium suggested that this light was

distracting, and that we had better shut it out. The suggestion was

very dexterously and indirectly made, and was caught up more

strongly (I think by Mr. Z). Anyhow, we agreed to stop out all

light. The circle was broken, and the candle was lighted for this

purpose. I then took occasion to observe that the guitar was turned

round into the position noted in the margin, the end being near my
Ileft hand. On examining it I found a longish end of one of the

catgut strings loose, and found that by sweeping this end over the
strings I could                                                          --I acnoduldI
                 make     quite    as  good twangs  as we    heard.
have done this   just as  well   with  my mouth as  with    my hand

could have pulled the     guitar about by the     end of    the catgut   in my
mouth and so have         disturbed the other       things                 were
                                                            -- as they

disturbed.

Before the candle was lighted some discussion arose as to why
                                                     by Mr. Y and
the spirits would not     do any better (started                          Mr. Z,
                           medium joined. It        appeared that        (in the
I think), in which the
opinion of the spirits as interpreted by the medium) we were not

Iquite rightly placed. When the discussion arose made a bet with
Imyself that the result would be that either or G. D. would have to
Ichange places with somebody else. And won my wager (I have
Ijust paid it with the remarkably good cigar am now smoking).

IG. D. had to come round to my side, Mr. Z went to the end, and
Mr. Y took G. D.'s place. "Good, Medium," said to myself.
" Now we shall see something."
I could                                We were in pitch darkness, and all

tension   do was to bring   mhyansden--sestiollf   touch   to bear with  extreme
         upon the medium's                        well in  my grip.

      Before long Medium became a good deal convulsed at intervals,

and soon a dragging sound was heard, and Mr. Y told us that the

arm-chair (mark its position) had moved up against his leg, and was
shoving against him. By degrees the armchair became importunate,
and by the manner of Mr. Y's remarks it was clear that his attention

Iwas entirely given to its movements.             left hand become tense --

     Then felt the fingers of the medium's

in such a manner as to show that the muscles of the left arm were
contracting sympathetically with those of the other arm on which a

   considerable strain was evidently being put.            Mloru. dYe'rs--obasenrovisaetiownass
upon the eccentricities of the arm-chair became

heard as of the chair descending on the table and shoving the
guitar before it (while at the same time, or just before, there was a
crash of a falling thermometer), and the tension of the left arm ceased.
The chair had got on to the table. Says the Medium to Mr. Y,

"Your hand was against mine all the time." "Well, no," replied

1874 PROPOSED BOOK ON HUME                                                              423

IMr. Y, " not quite. For a moment as the chair was coming up

don't think it was." But it was agreed that this momentary separa
Ition made no difference.
                           said nothing, but, like the parrot, thought

the more. After this nothing further happened. But conversation

went on, and more than once the medium was careful to point out

that the chair came upon the table while his hand was really in con

tact with Mr. Y's.                                                                      I
     G. D. will tell you if this is a fair statement of the facts.

believe it for my attention was on the stretch for those mortal two
Y
hours and a half, and did not allow myself to be distracted from
                 it is,  I                             that Mr. X
                                I
the main points in any way. My conclusion
                                                       It

                                                              is

                                                               I
                                                                                      a
                                                                                          is
                                                                                                    a
cheat and an impostor, and have no more doubt that he got Mr.
   to sit on his right hand, knowing from the turn of his conversa

tion that would be easy to distract his attention, and that he then

moved the chair against Mr.        Y                   with his leg, and finally coolly
                                     I
lifted (it) on to the table than that                  am writing these lines.
                                                                              T. H. H.

As Mr. G. Darwin wrote of the seance, " has given me lesson
with respect to the worthlessness of evidence which shall always

remember, and besides will make me very difficult in trusting

                                                       could not have believed in the
Ymyself. Unless had seen
                         I

                                                  it,

                                             I

evidence of anyone with such perfect bona fides as Mr.                     being so

worthless.

     On receiving this report Mr. Darwin wrote (Life,
188):--
                                                       it                               p.

Though the seance did tire you so much                       I

                                                                                 ii.
                                                       was, think, really

....worth the exertion, as the same sort of things are done at all the
seances                  and now to my mind an enormous weight of

evidence would be requisite to make me believe in anything beyond

mere trickery.

     The following letter to Mr. Morley, then editor of the
Fortnightly Review, shows that my father was already
thinking of writing upon Hume, though he did not carry out
this intention till 1878.

     The article referred to in the second letter that on
animals as automata.

                                                            Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                                      June 4, 1874.

     My dear Mr. Morley -- assure you that was great dis

appointment to me not to be able to visit you, but we had an
engagement of some standing for Oxford.
                           I
                                        4

                                                               it
                                                                     a is

424 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxv111

                  tfhreighntfeuwllyedteitmiopntinagd--verItisethdo--ughant dsonoownly  the other day
    IHume is                                                                           would gladly
when I saw
Iwrite about him in the Fortnightly if I were only sure of being able

to keep any engagement to that effect might make.
      IBut have yet a course of lectures before me, and an evening
                               the British Association -- to               --saayndnoptohliinsghinogf
discourse     to   deliver at
opening    the    Manchester   Medical School in October
Ioff a lot of scientific work. So you see have not a chance of

                       for months to come, and you           ahma.d--mEuvcehr
                       very questionable reed as
Iwriting about Hume                                                                          better
                                                                                             yours
not trust to such a
                                                             T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

                                           4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                        Nov. 15, 1874.

cheqMuey--dreaathrerMotorolemy u--chM, aInythtihnakn, ksfofroranyouarrtaicbleunwdhaincthly   sufficient
                                                                                            had been

Igutted by the newspapers.

         am always very glad to have anything of mine in the

IFortnightly, as it is sure to be in good company ; but am becoming

as spoiled as a maiden with many wooers. However, as far as the

Fortnightly which is my old love, and the Contemporary which is

my new, are concerned, I hope to remain as constant as a persistent

bigamist can be said to be.
      It will give me
                       great   --pleEavseurreyoutors  dine   with you,     and         Dec.  1 will
       me excellently  well.                           very   faithfully,
suit

                                                             T. H. Huxley.

     The year winds up with a New Year's greeting to
Professor Haeckel.

                               4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,

                                                         Dec. 28, 1874.

      My dear Haeckel-- This must reach you in time to wish you

and yours a happy New Year in English fashion. May your shadow

never be less, and may all your enemies, unbelieving dogs who resist

the Prophet of Evolution, be defiled by the sitting of jackasses upon

their grandmothers' graves ! an oriental wish appropriate to an ex-

traveller in Egypt.
      I have written a notice of the "Anthropogenic" for the
I IdAocnaedeimt--y,bbuut tI
                       am so    busy that       am afraid        should never have
                  for   being  put into a  great passion
                                                             --by an article in the
IQuarterly Review for last July, which read only a few days ago.
IMy friend Mr.
                       , to whom had to administer a gentle punish

                  time ago, has been at    the same          tricks again,
                  his former performance                      see that
                                           -- you will
Iment some                                                                              but  much
                                                                                       have   dealt
worse than

i874 LETTER TO HAECKEL                                                                                                                425

with  as  y"ohualdbe-aAlffewnit.h"       a " Pfaffe." * There are " halb-Pfaffen " as
well  as                                    if what I
seems very little -- to             2 So                                             satyheaboQuutart"eArnlythRroepvioegwe--nidco"
                                             say about
                                    what I

not be offended. It will all serve the good cause.

    I have been working very hard lately at the lower vertebrata, and
getting out results which will interest you greatly. Your suggestion

that Rathke's canals in Amphioxus* are the Wolffian ducts was a

capital shot, but it just missed the mark because Rathke's canals do

not exist. Nevertheless there are two half canals, the dorsal walls

of which meet in the raphe described by Stieda, and the plaited

lining of this wall (a)a                 believe, the renal organ. Moreover,                                                          I
                              4

                            iIs,
have found the skull and brain of Amphioxus, both of which are

very large (like vertebrate embryo's) instead of being rudimentary
tahsew"e Uarllwihrbaveelthitehrou"ght,skuanlld. exhibit the primitive segmentation of

      Thus the skull of Petromyzon answers to about fourteen segments
of the body of Amphioxus, fused together and indistinguishable in

even the earliest embryonic state of the higher vertebrata.

     Does this take your breath away                                                 Well, in due time you shall
II
be convinced.         sent in brief notice to the last meeting of the
       is
                   a

             I

                             it
                                       is

                                                 a
                                                                                  ?
Royal Society, which will soon be in your hands.
      need not tell you of the importance of all this. It unlucky
                                                                                                         out of the Vertebratais is
faoltrogSeetmheprer--thbaetcauhsee  has  just put Amphioxus
                                             demonstrable that
                                                                                                         Amphioxus         nearer

than could     have     been               hoped  to the condition of the primitive
                 far  more               regular
vertebrate --                                     and                              "reAscpreacntiaable"   sort of ancestor     than
                                                                                                         will have to go.
even you suspected. For you                       see

      think we must have an English translation of the Anthropogenie.

There great interest in these questions now, and your book                                                                 is  very
readable, to say nothing of its higher qualities.

     My wife (who sends her kindest greetings) and were charmed
                                                                                                         I

with the photograph. [As for our] publication in that direction,
the  seven  thveomlu.m--esEvearreyogurroswvinegry  into stately                                          folios.  You would
not  know                                          faithfully,
                                                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

     How will you read this scrawl now that Gegenbaur                                                               gone
                                                                                                                  a is

                                                                                                                                   ?
      In the article here referred to,                                               review of book by
                                         a
                                                                     a
Prof. G. H. Darwin, personal attack of an unjustifiable

character was made upon him, and through him, upon

Charles Darwin.          The             authorship of                                the review                  infriqeunedsti--on
had come to be        known,             and Huxley                                  writes to his                          :

                                         Lit. half-apes the Prosimiae and Lemurs.
      1
                     3

                                                  3
                                                                              4

                                                                                 ;
          Parson.

                   The Lancelet.                                                     Primitive vertebrate.

LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY CHAP. XXVIII

    I entirely sympathise with your feeling about the attack on
George. If anybody tries that on with my boy L., the old wolf will

show all the fangs he has left by that time, depend upon it. . . .
You ought to be like one of the blessed gods of Elysium, and

let the inferior deities do battle with the infernal powers. More
over, the severest and most effectual punishment for this sort of

moral assassination is quietly to ignore the offender and give him
the cold shoulder. He knows why he gets and society comes to
                              is
                                                     it,

                                                                 a
                                                                                     it
know why, and though society  more or less of dunderhead

has honourable instincts, and the man in the cold finds no cloak

that will cover him.

it,              CHAPTER XXIX
              a
                                    1875-1876
                                            if
In the year 1875 the bitter agitation directed against ex
perimental physiology came to a head. It had existed in
England for several years. In 1870, when President of the
British Association, Huxley had been violently attacked for
speaking in defence of Brown Sequard, the French physi
ologist. The name of vivisection, indifferently applied to

all experiments on animals, whether carried out by the use
of the knife or not, had, as Dr. (afterwards Sir) William
Smith put the opposite effect on many minds to that of
the " blessed word Mesopotamia." Misrepresentation was
rife even among the most estimable and well-meaning of the
opponents of vivisection, because they fancied they saw
traces of the practice everywhere, all the more, perhaps, for
not having sufficient technical knowledge for proper dis
crimination. One of the most flagrant instances of this
kind of thing was letter in the Record charging Huxley
with advocating vivisections before children, not by them.
Passages from the Introduction to his Elementary Physiology,
urging that beginners should be shown the structures under
discussion, examples for which could easily be provided
from the domestic animals, were put side by side with later
passages in the book, such, for instance, as statements of
fact as to the behaviour of severed nerves under irritation.

A sinister inference was drawn from this combination, and
published as fact without further verification. Of this he

remarks emphatically in his address on " Elementary In
struction in Physiology," 1877 (Collected Essays, iii. 300):

428                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, xxix

     It hope, unnecessary for me to give formal contradiction
     is,I
              I

                                   is
                                         is
                                                                                    a
to the silly fiction, which  assiduously circulated by the fanatics

who not only ought to know, but do know, that their assertions
are untrue, that have advocated the introduction of that experi

mental discipline which absolutely indispensable to the professed

physiologist, into elementary teaching.

     Moreover, during the debates on the Vivisection Bill in
1876, the late Lord Shaftesbury made use of this story.

Huxley was extremely indignant, and wrote home --
I

             it
                   by
                                                                      a

                                                                                                                                           :

                                                                                                            t
  Did you see Lord Shaftesbury's speech in Tuesday's Times
saw chance,* and have written sharp letter to the Times.

  This letter appeared on May 26, when he wrote again: --

     You will have had my note, and know all about Lord ShaftesI
bury and his lies by this time. Surely you could not imagine on
any authority that was such an idiot as to recommend boys and
girls to perform experiments which are difficult to skilled anatomists,

to say nothing of other reasons.

                      Letter to the Times

     In your account of the late debate in the House of Lords on

the Vivisection Bill, Lord Shaftesbury   reported to have said that
                                         is
in my Lessons in Elementary Physiology,    it             strongly insisted that
                                                 is

such experiments as those subjoined shall not merely be studied in

the manual, but actually repeated, either by the boys and girls them

selves or elseI       the teachers in their presence, as plainly appears

                      by

                    I
from the preface to the second edition.

     beg leave to give the most emphatic and unqualified contra
                                                                                       not shadow of
diction to this assertion, for which there
                             a
                                                is is
                                                                  a

                                                                                                :
justification either in the preface to the second edition of my
Lessons or in anything have ever said or written elsewhere. The
                                                                                       stthaendssubajsecftolloofwsLo--rd
most important paragraph of the preface which
                                                                                       though elementary,
Shaft"esFbourryt'she  misquotation and misrepresentation
                      purpose of acquiring practical,

acquaintance with physiological anatomy and histology, the organs
and tissues of the commonest domestic animals afford ample
materials. The principal points in the structure and mechanism of

the heart, the lungs, the kidneys, or the eye of man may be perfectly
illustrated by the corresponding parts of sheep while the pheno
mena of the circulation, many of the most important properties of
                                         a
                                                            ;

1      Being in Edinburgh, he had been reading the Scotch papers, and " the

reports of the Scotch papers as to what takes place in Parliament are meagre."

1876 CONTROVERSY WITH LORD SHAFTESBURY 429

living tissues are better shown by the common frog than by any of

the higher animals."

    If Lord Shaftesbury had the slightest theoretical or practical

acquaintance with the subject about which he is so anxious to

legislate, he would know that physiological anatomy is not exactly

the same thing as experimental physiology ; and he would be aware

Ithat the recommendations of the paragraph have quoted might be
                                                              performance of even a solitary
Ifully carried into effect without the                        have ever suggested or desired

" vivisection." The assertion that
the introduction of vivisection into the teaching of elementary

physiology in schools,   iIs,

                                                                   a
                                                                      is
                              repeat, contrary to fact.

    On the next day (May 27) appeared reply from Lord
Shaftesbury, in which his entire good faith
                                                                               equally con

spicuous with his misapprehension of the subject.

                      Lord Shaftesbury's Reply

    The letter from Professor Huxley in the Times of this morning

demands an immediate reply.

      The object that supposed the learned professor had in view
was gathered from the prefaces to the several editions of his work
    It
on
                 a

                     I

                                                           a
    Elementary Physiology.    edition states                  that  " the      following  lessons
    The preface to the first

in elementary physiology are, primarily, intended to serve the
purpose of text-book for teachers and learners in boys' and girls'

schools."

       was published, therefore, as manual for the young, as well

as the old.

    Now, any reader of the preface to the first edition would have

come to the conclusion that teachers and learners could acquire

something solid, and worth having, from the text-book before them.

But theispreface to the  --sec"onIdt  edition                 nearly destroys  that expectation.
Here       the passage                will be                 well for those   who attempt to
                        :

                               a

                                                  !

                                                      is
                                                                is
study elementary physiology to bear in mind the important truth

that the knowledge of science which attainable by mere reading,

though infinitely better than ignorance,                            knowledge of very
                                                                               it
differ"enDtirekcitnd   from that which arises                 from direct  contact with fact."a
                      contact with fact "                     What can     that mean (so, at
                                                                                                     is
least, very many ask) but declaration, on high authority, to teachers
and learners that vivisection alone can give them any real and

effective instruction?                is       still stronger, for states " that
      But the subsequent passage        it

the worth of the pursuit of science, as an intellectual discipline,

almost lost by those who only seek in books."
     Is not language like this calculated to touch the zeal and vanity

43°          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap, xxix

of teachers and learners at the very quick, and urge them to improve

their own minds and stand well in the eyes of the profession and

the public by positive progress in experimental physiology ? Ordinary

readers, most people would think, could come to no other

conclusion.
    IBut a disclaimer from Professor Huxley is enough ;
I Ihave misunderstood him ; and must ask his pardon.   am sorry to
                                                          sincerely

rejoice to have received such an assurance that his great name shall

never be used for such a project as that which excited our fears.

     On this he wrote :--

    IYou will have seen Lord Shaftesbury's reply to my letter.
Ithought it frank and straightforward, and have written a private

letter 1 to the old boy of a placable and proper character.

      In 1 874 he had also had a small passage of arms with the
late Mr. W. E. Forster, then Vice-President of the Council,

upon the same subject. Mr. Forster was about to leave

office, and when he gave his official authorisation for summer
courses of lectures at South Kensington on Biology, Chem

istry, Geology, etc., he did so with the special proviso that
there be no vivisection experiments in any of the courses,

and further, appended a Memorandum, explaining the
reasons on which he acted.

     Now, although Huxley was mentioned by name as

having taken care to avoid inflicting pain in certain previous
experiments which had come to Mr. Forster's knowledge,
the memorandum evoked from him a strong protest to the
Lord President, to whom, as Mr. Forster expressly intimated,

an appeal might properly be made.
     To begin with, the memorandum contained a mistake in

fact, referring to his regular course at South Kensington,
experiments which had taken place two years before at one
of the Courses to Teachers. This course was non-official ;
Huxley's position in it was simply that of a private person

to whom the Department offered a contract, subject to
official control and criticism, so far as touched that course,

and entirely apart from his regular position at the School
of Mines. The experiments of 1872 were performed,
as he had reason to believe, with the full sanction of the

   I1 " Huxley, the Professor, has written me a very civil, nay kind, letter.

replied in the same spirit." (Lord Shaftesbury, Life and Work, iii. 373, June
3, 1876.)

1874 VIVISECTION                                                43 1

Department. If the Board chose to go back upon what

had happened two years before, he was of course subject to

their criticism, but then he ought in justice to be allowed to

explain in what these experiments really consisted. What

they were, appears from a note to Sir J. Donnelly : --

    My dear Donnelly --It will be the best course, perhaps, if I
set down in writing what I have to say respecting the vivisections

for physiological purposes which have been performed here, and

concerning which you made me a communication from the Vice-
IPresident of the Council this morning.

         have always felt it my duty to defend those physiologists who,

like Brown Sequard, by making experiments on living animals, have

added immensely not only to scientific physiology, but to the means

of alleviating human suffering, against the often ignorant and some

times malicious clamour which has been raised against them.

    But personally, indeed I may say constitutionally, the per
Iformance of experiments upon living and conscious animals is

extremely disagreeable to me, and have never followed any line of

investigation in which such experiments are required.
When the course of instruction in Physiology here was com

menced, the question of giving experimental demonstrations became
a matter of anxious consideration with me. It was clear that,

without such demonstrations, the subject could not be properly
Itaught. It was no less clear from what had happened to me when,
as President of the British Association,  had defended Brown
Sequard, that I might expect to meet with every description of
abuse and misrepresentation if such demonstrations were given.
    I IIt did not appear to me, however, that the latter consideration

ought to weigh with me, and took such a course as believe is

defensible against everything but misrepresentation.

    I gave strict instructions to the Demonstrators who assisted me

that no such experiments were to be performed, unless the animal

were previously rendered insensible to pain either by destruction of
Ithe brain or by the administration of anaesthetics, and have every
Ireason to believe that my instructions were carried out.
                                                           do not
I Isee what can do beyond this, or how can give Mr. Forster any

better guarantee than is given in my assurance that my dislike to
the infliction of pain both as a matter of principle and of feeling is

quite as strong as his own can be.

    If Mr. Forster is not satisfied with this assurance, and with its

Ipractical result that our experiments are made only on non-sentient

animals, then am afraid that my position as teacher of Physiology

must come to an end.

    IIf am to act in that capacity I cannot consent to be prohibited
from showing the circulation in a frog's foot because the frog is

43 =

made slightly uncomfortable by being tied up for that purpose ; nor
from showing the fundamental properties of nerves, because ex

tirpating the brain of the same animal inflicts one-thousandth part of

the prolonged suffering which it undergoes when it makes its natural
exit from the world by being slowly forced down the throat of a

duck, and crushed and asphyxiated in that creature's stomach.

    I shall be very glad to wait upon Mr. Forster if he desires to

Isee me. Of course I am most anxious to meet his views as far as

can, consistently with my position as a person bound to teach

properly any subject in which he undertakes to give instruction.
But I am quite clear as to the amount of freedom of action
Iwhich it is necessary    should retain, and if you will kindly

communicate the contents of this letter to the Vice-President of the

Council, he will be able to judge for himself how far his sense of

what is right will leave me that freedom, or render it necessary for

me to withdraw from what I should regard as a false position.

      But there was a further and more vital question.
He had already declared through Major (now Sir John)
Donnelly, that he would only undertake a course which

involved no vivisection.     Further to require an official

assurance that he would not do that which he had explicitly

affirmed he did not intend to do, affected him personally,

and he therefore declined the proposal made to him to give

the course in question.

     It followed from the fact that experiments on animals

formed no part of his official course, and from his refusal

under the circumstances to undertake the non-official course,

that his opinions and present practices in regard to the

question of vivisection, did not come under their Lordships'
jurisdiction, and he protested against the introduction of
his name, and of the approbation or disapprobation of his

views, into an official document relating to a matter with

which he had nothing to do.

      In an intermediate paragraph of the same document, he

could not resist asking for an official definition of vivisection

as forbidden, in its relation to the experiments he had made
to the class of teachers.

    I should have to ask  nwohet"hevriviistemcteioanns  that the teacher  who has
                                                        experiments " is   thereby
undertaken to perform

debarred from inflicting pain, however slight, in order to observe the

action of living matter ; for it might be said to be unworthy

1874 VIVISECTION                                                                                                 433

quibbling,  having accepted the conditions of the minute, he
          if

                if,
                    a

                           is
                                                   a
thought himself at liberty to inflict any amount of pain, so long as

he did not actually cut.

But such the meaning officially attached to the word

"vivisection," the teacher would be debarred from showing the

circulation in frog's foot or in tadpole's tail he must not show
                                                      a

                                                              ;
an animalcule, uncomfortably fixed under the microscope, nor prick
his own finger for the sake of obtaining drop of living blood.
The living particles which float in that liquid undoubtedly feel as

much (or as little) as frog under the influence of anaesthetics, or
deprived of its brain, does and the teacher who shows his pupils
                       a
                                  ;

the wonderful phenomena exhibited by dying blood, might be

charged with gloating over the agonies of the colourless corpuscles,

with quite as much justice as have been charged with inciting
                                     I

boys and girls to cruelty by describing the results of physiological

experiments, which they are as likely to attempt as they are to

determine the longitude of their schoolroom.

However, will not trouble your Lordship with any further
            I
                                              I
                                                     if
indication of the difficulties which, as imagine, will attend the

attempt to carry the Minute into operation,                      instruction to be
                                                                     is

given in Physiology, or even in general Biology.

     The upshot of the matter was that                           the Minute was
altered so as to refer solely to future                          courses, and on

February 20 he wrote to Mr. Forster --
                          if
cannot allow you to leave office without troubling you with
I                             II
                I                                             :
the expression of my thanks for the very great kindness and con
                                               J.
sideration which have received from you on all occasions, and

particularly in regard to the question of vivisection, on which
                                                                     in
ventured to some extent, though                       think not very widely or really,
                                                                          I
to differ from you.                                                                                              your

     The modification which you were good enough to make

minute removed all my objections to undertaking the Summer

Course.

And am sure that                     that course had happened to be
         I                                                           I
                 it I                                                                   a
physiological one could do all want to do in the way of experi

ment, without infringing the spirit of your minute, though           confess

that the letter of would cause me more perplexity.

As to his general attitude to the subject,                       it  must be

noted, as said above in the letter to Sir Donnelly, that he
never followed any line of research involving experiments

on living and conscious animals. Though, as will be seen

from various letters, he considered such experiments

VOL.     I

                                                                                                              2

                                                                                          F

434                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              chap, xxix

justifiable, his personal feelings prevented him from per

forming them himself. Like Charles Darwin, he was very

fond of animals, and our pets in London found in him an

indulgent master.

     But if he did not care to undertake such experiments

personally, he held it false sentiment to blame others who

did disagreeable work for the good of humanity, and false

logic to allow pain to be inflicted in the cause of sport while

forbidding it      for      the cause of science. (See his address                 on
" Instruction      in       Elementary Physiology," Coll. Essays,                  iii.

300 seq.) Indeed, he declared that he trusted to the fox
hunting instincts of the House of Commons rather than to

any real interest in science in that body, for a moderate

treatment of the question of vivisection.
     The subject is again dealt with in " The Progress of

Science,"          1s8e8n7ten(cCeosll.:--Essays,  i.  122  seq.),  from  which  I  may
quote two

     The history of all branches of science proves that they must

a"ttfrauinits  a   considerable      stage of development before they    yield  practical
                "  ; and this        eminently true of physiology.
                                 is

     Unless the fanaticism of philozoic sentiment overpowers the

voice of humanity, and the love of dogs and cats supersedes that

of one's neighbour, the progress of experimental physiology and

pathology will, indubitably, in course of time, place medicine and

hygiene upon a rational basis.

      The          dangers    of prohibition          by law are discussed         in a
letter to
                   Sir W.   Harcourt :--

    You wish me to say what, in my opinion, would be the effect of
the total suppression of experiments on living animals on the
progress of physiological science in this country.

     I have no hesitation in replying that it would almost entirely
arrest that progress. Indeed, it is obvious that such an effect must

follow the measure, for a man can no more develop a true concep
tion of living action out of his inner consciousness than he can that
of a camel. Observation and experiment alone can give us a real
foundation for any kind of Natural Knowledge, and any one who is
acquainted with the history of science is aware that not a single one
of all the great truths of modern physiology has been established

otherwise than by experiment on living things.
      Happily the abolition of physiological experiment in this

country, should such a fatal legislative mistake ever be made, will

                    VIVISECTION                                    435

be powerless to arrest the progress of science elsewhere.          But

we shall import our physiology as we do our hock and our claret

from Germany and France ; those of our young physiologists and

pathologists who can afford to travel will carry on their researches

in Paris and in Berlin, where they will be under no restraint what

ever, or it may be that the foreign laboratories will carry out the

investigations devised here by the few persons who have the courage,

in spite of all obstacles, to attempt to save British science from

extinction.
I doubt if such a result will contribute to the diminution of
Ianimal suffering.
                    am sure that it will do as much harm as any

thing can do to the English school of Physiology, Pathology, and

Pharmacology, and therefore to the progress of rational medicine.

      Another letter on the subject may be given, which was
written to a student at a theological college, in reply to a
request for his opinion on vivisection, which was to be

discussed at the college debating society.

                    Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                          Sept. 29, 1890.

Dear IS1r-- am of the opinion that the practice of performing

experiments on living animals is not only reconcilable with true

humanity, but under certain circumstances is imperatively demanded

by it.
    Experiments on living animals are of two kinds. First, those

which are made upon animals which, although living, are incapable
of sensation, in consequence of the destruction or the paralysis of

the sentient machinery.

    I am not aware that the propriety of performing experiments of

this kind is seriously questioned, except in so far as they may involve
                                          Of course those who
some antecedent or subsequent suffering.

deny that under any circumstances it can be right to inflict suffering

on other sentient beings for our own good, must object to even

this much of what they call cruelty. And when they prove their
sincerity by leaving off animal food ; by objecting to drive castrated
horses, or indeed to employ animal labour at all ; and by refusing to

destroy rats, mice, fleas, bugs and other sentient vermin, they may
expect sensible people to listen to them, and sincere people to think

them other than sentimental hypocrites.

      As to experiments of the second kind, which do not admit of
the paralysis of the sentient mechanism, and the performance of
which involves severe prolonged suffering to the more sensitive

among the higher animals, I should be sorry to make any sweeping
assertion. I am aware of a strong personal dislike to them, which

436             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY              chap, xx1x

Itends to warp my judgment, and am prepared to make any

allowance for those who, carried away by still more intense dislike,

would utterly prohibit these experiments.
      But it has been my duty to give prolonged and careful attention

to this subject, and putting natural sympathy aside, to try and get at
the rights and wrongs of the business from a higher point of view,
namely, that of humanity, which is often very different from that of

emotional sentiment. ·

    I ask myself--suppose you knew that by inflicting prolonged
pain on 1 oo rabbits you could discover a way to the extirpation of

leprosy, or consumption, or locomotor ataxy, or of siccidal melan

Icholia among human beings, dare you refuse to inflict that pain ?
Now I am quite unable to say that                     dare. That sort of daring

would seem to me to be extreme moral cowardice, to involve gross

inconsistency.

    IfFor the

inflict pain
                advantage  --anpdainprootef cttihoen  of society, we all agree to
                upon man                              most prolonged and acute

character-- in our prisons, and on our battlefields.  England were

invaded, we should have no hesitation about inflicting the maximum of

suffering upon our invaders for no other object than our own good.
    IBut if the good of society and of a nation is a sufficient plea

for inflicting pain on men, think it may suffice us for experiment

Iing on rabbits or dogs.

     At the same time, think that a heavy moral responsibility rests
on those who perform experiments of the second kind.

     The wanton infliction of pain on man or beast is a crime ; pity
is that so many of those who (as I think rightly) hold this view,
                the criminality                              not     in
                                 lies in the wantonness and
                pain per --se.   am, sir, yours faithfully,
Iseem to forget that

the act of inflicting

                                                      T. H. Huxley.

      So far back as 1870 a committee had been appointed by
the British Association, and reported upon the conditions

under which they considered experiments on living animals
justifiable. In the early spring of 1875 a bill to regulate
physiological research was introduced into the Upper House
by Lord Hartismere, but not proceeded with. When legisla
tion seemed imminent Huxley, in concert with other men of

science, interested himself in drawing up a petition to

Parliament to direct opinion on the subject and provide a

fair basis for future legislation, which indeed took shape
immediately after in a bill introduced by Dr. Lyon Playfair
(afterwards Lord Playfair), Messrs. Walpole and Ashley.
This bill, though more just to science, did not satisfy many

                    THE PROTECTION BILL                                             437

scientific men, and was withdrawn upon the appointment of

a Royal Commission.

      The    following  letters  to        Mr. Darwin  bear on this

period :--                                 4 Marlborough Place,

                                                  Jan. 22, 1875.

My dear Darwin --I quite agree with your letter about vivi
section as a matter of right and justice in the first place, and

secondly as the best method of taking the wind out of the enemy's

sails. I will communicate with Burdon Sanderson and see what can

be done.

My reliance as against           and her fanatical following is not in

Ifthe wisdom and justice of the House of Commons, but in the large
number of fox-hunters therein.       physiological experimentation is

put down by   law,  hunting,  fishing and  sosohnootifnogll,owa.g--ainEstvewr hiycohuras,mvuecrhy
better case  can    be made    out, will          T. H. Huxley.

faithfully,

                                                  South Kensington,
                                                     April 21, 1875.

My dear Darwin -- The day before yesterday I met Playfair at
/the club, and he told me that he

was getting up what she called a
                                 h"adVivhiesearcdtorf'rsomBiMll,i"ssanEdlliothtatt  that

                                                                                     Lord

Cardwell was very anxious to talk with some of us about the matter.                 I

So you see that there is no secret about our proceedings.

gave him a general idea of what was doing, and he quite confirmed

what Lubbock said about the impossibility of any action being taken

in Parliament this session.

      Playfair said he should like very much to know what we pro

Iposed doing, and should think it would be a good thing to take him

into consultation.

    IOn my return found that Pfliiger had sent me his memoir with a

note such as he had sent to you.

    II read it last night, and am inclined to think that it is a very

important piece of work.
     He shows that frogs absolutely deprived of oxygen give off

carbonic acid for twenty-five hours, and gives very strong reasons for

believing that the evolution of carbonic acid by living matter in
general is the result of a process of internal rearrangement of the
molecules of the living matter, and not of direct oxidation.
    IHis speculations about the origin of living matter are the best
Ihave seen yet, so far as understand them. But he plunges into the
                                           I am
depths of the higher chemistry   in which         bcyanreofuml esatnusdya. t--hoEmvee.r
                                 paper is  worth    T. H. Huxley.
Only this I can see, that the

yours faithfully,

43S             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                                                   chap, xxix

                                      31 Royai. Terrace, Edinburgh,
                                                     May 19, 1875.

     My dear Darwin -- Playfair has sent a copy of his bill to me,
and I am sorry to find that its present wording is such as to render
                                                                                                                    In discussing the
it very unacceptable to all teachers of physiology.
                                                                                                                    Istrongly on the
draft with Litchfield I recollect that I insisted
                                                                                                                    but agreed that
necessity of allowing demonstrations to students,

it would be sufficient to permit such demonstrations only as could

be performed under anaesthetics.
     The second clause of the bill, however, by the words "for the

purpose of new scientific discovery and for no other purpose,"
absolutely prohibits any kind of demonstration.       It would debar me

from showing the circulation in the web of a frog's foot or from
exhibiting the pulsations of the heart in a decapitated frog.
     And by its secondary effect it would prohibit discovery. Who

is to be able to make discoveries unless he knows of his own

knowledge what has been already made out? It might as well be

ruled that a chemical student should begin with organic analysis.
     Surely Burdon Sanderson did not see the draft of the bill as it

now stands. The Professors here are up in arms about and as
                is it

                                                   ?

                                    I
                                          I
                                                   I

                                                                     I

                                                                                                        it,
the papers have associated my name with the bill shall have to
                publicly unless something can be done. But what in
repudiate

the world to be done              have not written to Playfair yet, and

shall wait to hear from you before     --go. have an excellent class
here, 340 odd, and like the work.
Ever yours faithfully,                Best regards to Mrs. Darwin.

                                                    T. H. Huxley.

                                      31 Royal Terrace, Edinburgh,

                                                June
     it                                                                                                             1875.

              I
                      I

                           I
                                  I

                                                                         a
                                                                                                                5,
     My dear Darwin -- see have forgotten to return Playfair's
letter, which inclose. He sent me copy of his last letter to you,

but did not reach me till some days after my return from London.
                                  saw him and Lord Cardwell at the House of
In the meanwhile

Commons on Friday (last week).
      Playfair seems rather disgusted at our pronunciamento against

the bill, and he declares that both Sanderson and Sharpey assented
                                                cannot imagine. To say
to   it.      What they were dreaming about  I
            is
that no man shall experiment except for purpose of original dis

covery about as reasonable as to ordain that no man shall swim

unless he means to go from Dover to Calais.

     However the Commission to be issued, and                                                                       it      everything to
                                  is                                                                                    is

gain time and let the present madness subside little.                                                                          vowed
                                                      a                                                                     I           it, I

would never be member of another Commission                                                                         iIf     could help
     I
                 I

                               a
but suppose shall have to serve on this.

1875 VIVISECTION COMMISSION                                                    439

I I am very busy with my lectures, and am nearly half through.
   shall not   be   sOorcrtyobwerh.en--tWheiytharkeinodveesrt,  as I have been grinding away
now since     last                                              regards to Mrs. Darwin, ever
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

      He was duly asked to serve on the Commission.

Though his lectures in Edinburgh prevented him from
attending till the end of July no difficulty was made over
this, as the first meetings of the Commission, which began
on June 30, were to be devoted to taking the less contro
versial evidence. In accepting his nomination he wrote to

SMerc. reCtarroyss:--(afterwards Lord Cross), at that time Home

    If I can be of any service I shall be very glad to act on the
Commission, sympathising as I do on the one hand with those who

abhor cruelty to animals, and, on the other, with those who abhor
the still greater cruelty to man which is involved in any attempt to
arrest the progress of physiology and of rational medicine.

     The other members of the Commission were Lords
Cardwell and Winmarleigh, Mr. W. E. Forster, Sir J. B.
Karslake, Professor Erichssen, and Mr. R. H. Hutton.

      The evidence given before the Commission bore out the
view that English physiologists inflicted no more pain upon
animals than could be avoided ; but one witness, not an
Englishman, and not having at that time a perfect command
of the English language, made statements which appeared
to the Commission at least to indicate that the witness was

indifferent to animal suffering. Of this incident Huxley

writes to Mr. Darwin at the same time as he forwarded a
formal invitation for him to appear as a witness before the

Commission :--

                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                                 Oct. 30, 1875.

    My dear Darwin -- The inclosed tells its own story. I have

done my best to prevent your being bothered, but for various

reasons which will occur to you I did not like to appear too
obstructive, and I was asked to write to you. The strong feeling
of my colleagues (and my own I must say also) is that we ought to

have your opinions in our minutes. At the same time there is a no
less strong desire to trouble you as little as possible, and under no
circumstances to cause you any risk of injury to health.

44°                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY               CHAP. XXIX

      What with occupation of time, worry and vexation, this horrid

Commission is playing the deuce with me. I have felt it my duty

to act as counsel for Science, and was well satisfied with the way
Ithings were going. But on Thursday when
                                                  was absent at the
ICouncil of the Royal Society
                                       was examined, and if what
Ihear is a correct account of the evidence he gave may as well

Ithrow up my brief.

         am told that he openly professed the most entire indifference

to animal suffering, and said he only gave anaesthetics to keep

Ianimals quiet !       did not believe the man lived who was such
    I declare to you

an unmitigated cynical brute as to profess and act upon such

principles, and I would willingly agree to any law which would send

him to the treadmill.

     The impression his evidence made on Cardwell and Forster is

I Iprofound, and am powerless (even if I had the desire which have

not) to combat it. He has done more mischief than all the fanatics

Iput together.        disgusted  with  the whole  business.  --H.EvHeur xyloeuyrs.,
          am utterly
                                                         T.

     Of course keep the little article on Species. It is in some American

Encyclopaedia published by Appleton. And best thanks for your

Ibook. I shall study it some day, and value it as do every line you
Ihave written. Don't mention what
                                       have told you outside the

circle of discreet Darwindom.

                                                  4 Marlborough Place,

                                                  Nov. 2, 1875.

     My dear Darw1n -- Our secretary has telegraphed to you to

Down, and written to Queen Anne Street.
     IBut to make sure, I send this note to say that we expect you at
13 Delahay Street1 at 2 o'clock to-morrow.         And that have looked
out the highest chair that was to be got for      you.f -- Ever yours very
                                                  T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

     The Commission reported early in 1876, and a few
months after Lord Carnarvon introduced a bill intituled
" An Act to amend the law relating to Cruelty to Animals."
It was a more drastic measure than was demanded. As a
writer in Nature (1876, p. 248) puts it: "The evidence on
the strength of which legislation was recommended went
beyond the facts, the report went beyond the evidence, the

      1 Where the Commission was sitting.
     2 Mr. Darwin was long in the leg. When he came to our house the biggest
hassock was always placed in an arm-chair to give it the requisite height for him.

1876 THE LAW AS TO VIVISECTION                                                                         441

recommendations beyond the report, and the bill can hardly

be said to have gone beyond the recommendations, but
rather to have contradicted them."

     As to the working of the law Huxley referred to it the
following year in the address, already cited, on " Elementary
Instruction in Physiology" (Coll. Essays, iii. 310).

IBut while        should object to any experimentation which can

justly be called painful, and while as a member of a late Royal

ICommission did my best to prevent the infliction of needless pain
Ifor any purpose, think it is my duty to take this opportunity of
expressing my regret at a condition of the law which permits a boy

to troll for pike or set lines with live frog bait for idle amusement,

and at the same time lays the teacher of that boy open to the

penalty of fine and imprisonment if he uses the same animal for the

ppuhrypsoisoelogoicf aelxshpibecittiancgleso--ne    of   the most    beautiful and   instructive of
                                                  the   circulation  in the web of  the foot. No

one could undertake to affirm that a frog is not inconvenienced by
being wrapped up in a wet rag and having his toes tied out, and it

cannot be denied that inconvenience is a sort of pain. But you

must not inflict the least pain on a vertebrated animal for scientific

purposes (though you may do a good deal in that way for gain or

for sport) without due licence of the Secretary of State for the Home

Department, granted under the authority of the Vivisection Act.

So it comes about that, in this year of grace 1877, two persons

may be charged with cruelty to animals. One has impaled a frog,

and suffered the creature to writhe about in that condition for hours ;

the other has pained the animal no more than one of us would be

Ipained by tying strings round his                      Tfihngeerfsirstanodffenkdeeerpinsgaysh, im" I  in the
                                                                                                       did it
position of a hydropathic patient.
because     find  --fishnianyg,   very amusing," and                  the   magistrate bids him
depart in  peace                 probably wishes him                        sport. The second
pleads, "  I wanted to           impress a scientific                good
                                                                     truth  with a distinctness

attainable in no other way on the minds of my scholars," and the

Imagistrate fines him five pounds.
         cannot but think that this is an anomalous and not wholly
creditable state of things.

CHAPTER XXX

1875-1876

HUXLEY only delivered one address outside his regular
work in 1875, on "Some Results of the 'Challenger'
Expedition," given at the Royal Institution on January
29. For all through the summer he was away from
London, engaged upon the summer course of lectures on
Natural History at Edinburgh. This was due to the fact that
Professor (afterwards Sir) Wyville Thomson was still absent
on the Challenger expedition, and Professor Victor Carus,

who had acted as his substitute before, was no longer

available. Under these circumstances the Treasury granted
Huxley leave of absence from South Kensington. His

course began on May 3, and ended on July 23, and he

thought it a considerable feat to deal with the whole
Animal Kingdom in 54 lectures. No doubt both he and
his students worked at high pressure, especially when the

latter came scantily prepared for the task, like the late

Joseph Thomson, afterwards distinguished as an African
traveller, who has left an account of his experience in this

class. Thomson's particular weak point was his Greek, and
the terminology of the lectures seems to have been a thorn
in his side. This account, which actually tells of the 1876
course, occurs on pp. 36 and 37 of his " Life."

The experience of studying personally under Huxley was a

privilege to which he had been looking forward with eager anticipa

tion ; for he had already been fascinated with the charm of Huxley's

writings, and had received from them no small amount of mental

stimulus. Nor were his expectations disappointed.  But he found

the work to be unexpectedly hard, and very soon he had the sense

              HIS EDINBURGH COURSE  443

of panting to keep pace with the demands of the lecturer. It was
 not merely that the texture of scientific reasoning in the lectures was
so closely knit, -- although that was a very palpable fact, -- but the
character of Huxley's terminology was entirely strange to him. It
 met him on his weakest side, for it presupposed a knowledge of
 Greek (being little else than Greek compounds with English ter
 minations) and of Greek he had none.

       Huxley's usual lectures, he writes, are something awful to listen
to. One half of the class, which numbers about four hundred,
have given up in despair from sheer inability to follow him. The
strain on the attention of each lecture is so great as to be equal

to any ordinary day's work. I feel quite exhausted after them.

IAnd then to master his language is something dreadful. But, with

all these drawbacks, would not miss them, even if they were ten
times as difficult. They are something glorious, sublime !

    Again he writes :--

    Huxley is still very difficult to follow, and I have been four

times in his lectures completely stuck and utterly helpless. But

Ifhe has given us eight or nine beautiful lectures on the frog. . . .

    you only heard a few of the lectures you would be surprised to
find that there were so few missing links in the chain of life, from

the amoeba to the genus homo.

      It was a large class, ultimately reaching 353 and break
ing the record of the Edinburgh classes without having

recourse to the factitious assistance proposed in the letter

of May 1 6.
      His inaugural lecture was delivered under what ought

to have been rather trying circumstances. On the way
from London he stopped a night with his old friends, John
Bruce and his wife (one of the Fannings), at their home,
Barmoor Castle, near Beal. He had to leave at 6 next

morning, reaching Edinburgh at 10, and lecturing at 2.
" Nothing," he writes, " could be much worse, but I am
going through it with all the cheerfulness of a Christian

martyr."
     On May 3 he writes to his wife from the Bruces'

Edinburgh house, which they had lent him.

    II know that you will be dying to hear how my lecture went off
             sit down to send you a line, though you did hear from
to-day -- so

me to-day.                    I am told there were 600 auditors,

    The theatre was crammed.

444                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY               chap, xxx

Iand I could not have wished for more thorough attention. But

had to lecture in gown and Doctor's hood and the heat was awful.
The Principal and the chief Professors were present, and altogether

it was a state affair. I was in great force, although I did get up at
six this morning and travelled all the way from Barmoor. But I

                that sort of

                5. -- Fanny

                to-day and
won't do                      thing again, it's tempting Providence.   flit to
     May                       and her sisters and the Governess      be very

IBarmoor                        shall be alone in my glory. I shall
Icomfortable and well cared for, so make your mind easy, and if
fall ill I am to send for Clark.            He expressly told me to do so as
I left him !
     I gave my
                         second    lecture   yesterday to an   auwdhioencleikesf--illincgomtehse
theatre. The            reason   of this    is that everybody

for the first week and then only those who have tickets are
                IHow many will become regular students
admitted.                                                      don't know

yet,   --butto  there   is promise  .  of a big class. The Lord send three
extra             make   up for .      . (a sudden claim upon his purse before

he left home).  writes           of this    custom  to Professor Baynes on

     And he

June 12: --

    IMy class is over 350 and I find some good working material

among them. Parsons mustered strong in the first week, but fear
they came to curse and didn't remain to pay.

    --He was still Lord Rector of Aberdeen University, and on

May 1 o writes how he attended a business meeting there :

     I have had my run to Aberdeen and back -- got up at 5,

started from Edinburgh at 6.25, attended the meeting of the

Court at 1. Then drove out with Webster to Edgehill in a great
Istorm of rain and was received with their usual kindness.
                                                                              did

not get back till near 8 o'clock last night and, thanks to The
IVirginians and a good deal of Virginia, passed the time pleasantly
Ienough. . . . There are 270 tickets gone up to this date, so
Isuppose        may expect a class of 300 men. 300 X 4 = 1200.

Hooray.

                        To his Eldest Daughter

                                                    Edinburgh, May 16, 1875.

     My  dearest        JIeshsa--veYonuort  wmfrrooitmttheenrt'shatotle"yttoCeuronrgdreeclpeiaeivrse"odn(I--thsuisspopmohsoeerrneisnhgies

reminds   me that

means Goneril) by a message

reparation.

    I have 330 students, and my class is the biggest in the University

                                HIS EDIABURGH COURSE                                                   445

I----bbueting  am quite cast down and discontented                         because   --it iws hniocth  351,
                one more than the Botany Class                            last year                     was

never so big before or since.                                                         take             the

    I am thinking of paying 2 1 street boys to come and
extra tickets so that I may crow over all my colleagues.

Fanny Bruce is going to town next week to her grandmother's
Iand                                                                        It seems to me that
       want    you    g--irlsbutto  make friends              with her.   man's judgment, and
she is very     nice                that is only              a fallible
IHeaven forbid that should attempt to forestall Miss Cudberry's

decision on such a question. Anyhow she has plenty of energy

and, among other things, works very hard at German.
M says that the Rootle-Tootles have a bigger drawing-room
                  I should be sorry to believe these young beginners
than ours.

Iguilty of so much presumption, and perhaps you will tell them to

have it made smaller before visit them.
A Scotch gentleman has just been telling me that May is the

worst month in the year, here ; so pleasant ! but the air is soft and

warm to-day, and I look out over the foliage to the castle and

don't care.

Love to all, and specially M                    --            . Mind      you don't tell her           that
tIimdeisn.e--oEuvtertoy-doauyr                                             for the first and           last
                                and to-morrow                 positively
                                loving father,                               T. H. Huxley.

      However, the class grew without such adventitious aid,

and he writes to Mr. Herbert Spencer on June 15 :--

... I have a class of 353, and instruct them in dry facts --
particularly warning them to keep free of the infidel speculations

which are current under the name of evolution.
I expect an "examiner's call" from a Presbytery before the
                                "Ilaargmerafsrpaihderethaotf
course  is over,   but                                        the pay is not enough   to  induce
me to   forsake   my                                          influence " in London.

      In the same letter he speaks of a flying visit to town
which he was about to make on the following Thursday,
returning on the Saturday for lack of a good Sunday train :

    IMayhap I may chance to see you at the club --but shall be
Itorn to pieces with things to do during my two days' stay.

    If Moses had not existed should have had three days in town,

which is a curious concatenation of circumstances.

      As for his health during this period, it maintained, on
the whole, a satisfactory level, thanks to the regime of which

he writes to Professor Baynes :

44'               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                           chap, xxx

will  I am  very sorry to hear that  lyivoiungh--avea  been so seriously ill. You
            to take to my way of                       mutton chop a day and no
      have

grog, but much baccy. Don't begin to pick up your threads too

fast.

     No wonder you are uneasy if you have crabs on your conscience.*
Thank Heaven they are not on mine !

     I am glad to hear you are getting better, and I sincerely trust

that you may find all the good you seek in the baths.
      As to coming back a "new man," who knows what that might

be ? Let us rather hope for the old man in a state of complete

repair -- Ai copper bottomed.

      Excuse my nautical language.

     The following letters also touch on his Edinburgh

lectures :--

                                   Cragside, Morpeth, August n, 1875.

     My dear Foster  -- We are staying  here            with Sir. \V. Armstrong
-- the whole brood.                     the            majority of the chickens
                     Miss Matthaei and

being camped at a farm-house belonging to our host about three

miles off. It is wetter than it need be, otherwise we are very jolly.
    I finished off my work in Edinburgh on the 23rd and positively

polished off the Animal Kingdom in 54 lectures. French without
a master in twelve lessons is nothing to this feat. The men worked

very well on the whole, and sent in some creditable examination

papers. I stayed a few days to finish up the abstracts of my
lectures for the Medical Times ; then picked up the two elder girls

who were at Barmoor and brought them on here to join the wife

and the rest.

     How is it that Dohrn has been and gone? I have been

meditating a letter to him for an age. He wanted to see me,
and I did not know how to manage to bring about a meeting.

      Edinburgh  "isVgargeuastly"  exercised in its mind about  the  vivisection
business, and                      " swells wisibly " whenever  the  subject is
                 I think there is an inclination to regard those who are
mentioned.

ready to consent to legislation of any kind as traitors, or, at any rate,
            It sickens me to reflect on the quantity of time and
trimmers.
worry I shall have to give to that subject when I get back.
      I see that
                                   has been blowing the trumpet at the
Medical Association. He has about as much tact as a flyblown

bull.                                                                The

    I have just had a long letter from Wyville Thomson.

Challenger inclines to think that Bathybius is a mineral precipi
tate ! in which case some enemy will probably say that it is a
                                     ISo mind, was the first to make
product of my precipitation.

            1 i.e. an article for the Emyclopadia Britannica.

iS75 LETTERS                                                                                 447

that "goak." Old Ehrenberg suggested something of the kind to

Ime, but have not his letter here. I shall eat my leek handsomely,

if any eating has to be done. They have found pseudopodia in

Globigerina.         wishes    from     ours                     to yours -- Ever yours faith
      With all good                                                          T. H. Huxley.

fully,

                               Cragside, Morpeth, August 13, 1875.

    My dear Tyndall -- I find that in the midst of my work in
Edinburgh I omitted to write to De Vrij, so I have just sent him a

letter expressing my pleasure in being able to co-operate in any plan

for doing honour to old Benedict,* for whom I have a most especial

respect.

    I Iam not sure that won't write something about him to stir up

the Philistines.

    My work at Edinburgh got itself done very satisfactorily, and I

cleared about ^1000 by the transaction, being one of the few
examples known of a Southern coming north and pillaging the

IScots. However, I was not sorry when it was all over, as had

Ibeen hard at work since October and began to get tired.

      The wife and babies from the south, and from the north, met

here a fortnight ago and we have been idling very pleasantly ever

since. The place     is  very   pretty   and    our host kindness itself.                  Miss
Matthaei and five    of  the   bairns   are at                                             farm
                                                Cartington -- a moorland
-house three miles off--and in point of rosy cheeks and appetites

might compete with any five children of their age and weight. Jess
and Mady are here with us and have been doing great execution at

a ball at Newcastle. I really don't know myself when I look at

tAhlelsesenydounthgeiwr olomveen. ,--aEnvdermyyohuarstrevderoyf  possible     sons-in-law  is deadly.
                                                                 faithfully,
                                                                              T. H. Huxley.

Wish you joy of Bristol.

      The following letter to Darwin was written when the
Polar Expedition under Sir George Nares was in preparation.

It illustrates the range of observation which his friends had
learned to expect in him :--

                                                        Athenaeum Club, Jan. 22, 1875.

    My dear Darwin -- I write on behalf of the Polar Committee

of the Royal Society to ask for any suggestions you may be inclined
to offer us as instructions to the naturalists who are to accompany

the new expedition.
      The task of drawing up detailed instructions is divided among a

              1 Spinoza, a memorial to whom was being raised in Holland.

448          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                   chap, xxx

lot of us ; but you are as full of ideas as an egg is full of meat, and

are shrewdly suspected of having, somewhere in your capacious

cranium, a store of notions which would be of great value to the

naturalists.                        you have not already "collated facts "

    All I can say
             it          that
                     is,
                               if
on this topic, will be the first subject ever suggested to you on
                                                 I
which you had not.
                                                    if
     Of course we   do   not expect you to            put yourself to any great
trouble -- nor ask  for               thing-- but         you will jot down any
                         such  a

notes that occur to you we shall be thankful.                                    --

     We must have everything in hand for printing by March  1
                                                               5.
                                                        T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

      The following letter          dates from soon after the death              of

Charles Kingsley --                         Science Schools, S. Kensington,
   I
                                                                 Oct. 22, 1875.
              I I is
                                it :
                                   I
     Dear Miss Kingsley -- sincerely trust that you believe have
                                        a
                                                                      it

                                                               I
been abroad and prostrated by illness, and have thereby accounted
for receiving no reply to your letter of fortnight back.

     The fact that has only just reached me, owing to the neglect

of the people in Jermyn Street, who ought to have sent on here.

       assure you have not forgotten the brief interview to which

you refer, and have often regretted that the hurry and worry of
life (which increases with the square of your distance from youth)
never allowed me to take advantage of your kind father's invitation

to become better acquainted with him and his.           found his card in
                                                        I

                                                                          I
Jermyn Street when returned last year, with a pencilled requestI III
that would call on him at Westminster.I

         meant to do so, but the whirl of things delayed me until, as

bitterly regret, was too late.
             a
       am not sure that have any important letter of your father's
               it
but one, written to me some fifteen years ago, on the occasion of

the death of child who was then my only son.            was in reply to
                                                        if I

                                                               It

                                                                   I
                                                                       I
   letter of my own written in humour of savage grief. Most likely
a                              aa

he burned the letter, and his reply would be hardly intelligible

without it. Moreover, am not at all sure that can lay my hands
                         I

upon your father's letter in certain chaos of papers which have

never had the courage to face for years. But you wish will try.

   I   am very grieved to hear of Mrs. Kingsley's indisposition. Pray

make my kindest remembrances to her, and believe me yours very
                                                        T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

     P.S. -- By the way, letters addressed to my private residence,

                    Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                    4

                                     I
are sure not to be delayed. And         have another reason for giving

                                LETTERS TO BAYNES                     449

the address -- the hope that when you come to Town you will let

my wife and daughters make your acquaintance.

His continued interest in the germ -theory and the

question of the           origin of life (Address at  the British Associa

tion, 1870, see           p. 355, sq.), appears from  the following :--

                                             4 Marlborough Place,

                                                      Oct. 15, 1875.

My dear Tyndall -- Will you bring with you to the x

tomorrow a little bottle full of fluid containing the bacteria you
Ihave found developed in your infusions ?
I Iistic specimen. It will be useful to you,
                                               mean a good character

                                             think, if determine the

fyoorumscawn ituhse.m--y  own   microscope,  and make drawings of them which
                          Ever  yours,                             T. H. Huxley.

II can't tell you how delighted was with the experiments.

      Throughout this period, and for some time later, he was
in frequent communication with Thomas Spencer Baynes,
Professor of Logic and English Literature at St. Andrews
University, the editor of the new Encyclopedia Britannica,
work upon which was begun at the end of 1873. From the
first Huxley was an active helper, both in classifying the
biological subjects which ought to be treated of, suggesting
the right men to undertake the work, and himself writing
several articles, notably that on Evolution.*

      Extracts from his letters to Professor Baynes between
the years 1873 and 1884, serve to illustrate the work
which he did and the relations he maintained with the genial

and learned editor.

    INov. 2, 1873. -- have been spending my Sunday morning in
Idrawing up a list of headings, which will think exhaust biology
from the Animal point of view, and each of which does not involve

Imore than you are likely to get from one man. In many cases, i.e.
Insecta, Entomology,            have subdivided the subjects, because, by

an unlucky peculiarity of workers in these subjects, men who
understand zoology from its systematic side are often ignorant of

anatomy, and those who know fossils are often weak in recent

forms.

      But of course the subdivision does not imply that one man
should not take the whole if he is competent to do so. And if

1 Others were Actinosoa, Amphibia, Animal Kingdom, and Biology:

VOL. I                                                2G

450            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                             chap, xxx

separate contributors supply articles on these several subdivisions,
somebody must see that they work in harmony.

      But with all the good will in the world, he was too hard
pressed to get his quota done as quickly as he wished. He
suggests at once that " Hydrozoa " and " Actinozoa," in

his list, should be dealt with by the writer of the article
" Ccelenterata."

     Shunting " Actinozoa " to " Ccelenterata " would do no harm,

and would have the great merit of letting me breathe a little. But

if you think better that "Actinozoa"     should  come  in  its place  under

A, I will try what I can do.

     IDecember 30, 1872. -- As to Anthropology,   really am afraid to
Ipromise. At present
                      am plunged in Amphibia, doing a lot of

original work to settle questions which have been hanging vaguely

in my mind for years. If Amphibia is done by the end of January

it is as much as it will be.  myself-- or at any  rate my spare       self --

    IIn February must give
Iup to my Rectorial Address,* which (tell it not in
Ibottom of the Red Sea. And do not suppose                          wish at the
                                                       GIatshh)all  be able to

look seriously at either Animal Kingdom or Anthropology before the

acodsdmres--s  is done with. And all depends    on the centre of my micro
                                                me a trick every now and
               intestinum colon -- which plays

then.

    I will do what I can if you like, but if you trust me it is at your

proper peril.

    Feb. 8, 1874. -- How astonished folks will be if eloquent pass
Iages out of the address get among the Amphibia, and comments

on Frog anatomy into the address. As am working at both

just now this result is not improbable.

     Meanwhile the address and the ten days' stay at

Aberdeen had been "playing havoc with the Amphibia," but

on returning home,    he      went  to work      upon  the          latter, and
writes on March 1 2
                     :--

    II did not care to answer your last letter until had an instal

ment of Amphibia ready. Said instalment was sent off to you, care

of Messrs. Black, yesterday, and now I feel like Dick Swiveller,

when happy circumstances having enabled him to pay off an old

score he was able to begin running up another.

               1 His Rectorial Address at Aberdeen. (See p. 405.)

1S75 LETTERS TO BA YNES

IJune 8. -- have had sundry proofs and returned them. My
Iwriting is lamentable when am in a hurry, but I never provoked
I Ia strike before !
                     declare I think write as well as the editor, on

ordinary occasions.

      He was pleased to find someone who wrote as badly as,
or worse than, himself, and several times rallies Baynes on
that score. Thus, when Mrs. Baynes had acted as her

husband's amanuensis, he writes (February 1 1, 1878) :--

     My respectful compliments to the " mere machine," whose
beautiful caligraphy (if that isn't a tautology) leaves no doubt in my
mind that whether the writing of your letters by that agency is good
for you or not it is admirable for your correspondents.

    Why people can't write a plain legible hand I can't imagine.1

      And on another occasion he adds a postscript to say,
" You write worse than ever. So do I."

     However, the article got finished in course of time :--

    Aug. 5. -- I have seen and done with all Amphibia but the last

I Isheet, and that only waits revise. Considering it was to be done

in May, think am pretty punctual.

The next year, immediately before taking Sir Wyville

Thomson's lectures    at       Ehdainndbu:--rgh,  he writes        about another
article which he had   in

                                      4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                  March 16, 1875.

    My dear Baynes -- I am     wBoIOrkLinOgGaYga--insbtefotirme e  I  to get a lot  of
                                                                        go north.
things done -- amongst others                                                       I
have written a large part of said article, and it would facilitate my

operation immensely if what is done were set up and I had two or
Ithree proofs, one for Dyer, who is to do part of the article.

     Now, if send the MS. to North Bridge will you swear by your
IgI osdhsall(oh--av1e--a3-- 1
                     or any    greater number as  the case may be) that
proof                 swiftly   and not be kept   waiting for weeks till

the whole thing has got cold, and                 am at something else a

hundred miles away from Biology ?
If not I will keep the MS. till it is all done, and you know what
that means.-- Ever yours very truly,              T. H. Huxley.

1 N.B. -- This sentence is written purposely in a most illegible hand.

452               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   CHAP. XXX

                                                             Cragside, Morpeth,

                                                             Aug. 12, 1875.

     My dear Baynes -- The remainder                     of the proof of " Biology "
is posted to-day -- " Praise de Lor'."
     I have a dim recollection of having been led by your soft and
insinuating ways to say that I would think (only think) about some
other article. What the deuce was it ?

    I have told the Royal Society people to send you a list of

Fellows, addressed to Black's.

     We have had here what may be called bad weather for England,

but it has been far better than the best Edinburgh weather known

to my experience.
     IAll my friends are out committing grouse-murder.                       As a
vivisection Commissioner I did not think could properly accom
pany them. -- Ever yours very faithfully,                    T. H. Huxley.

                                                             Cragside, Morpeth,

                                                             Aug. 24, 1875.

    My dear Baynes-- I think      make                   is like enough to do the
                                                         sure of his doing it at all.
" Coelenterata " well if you can

He is a man of really great knowledge of the literature of Zoology,
and if it had not been for the accident of being a procrastinating

impracticable ass, he could have been a distinguished man. But

he is a sort of Balaam-Centaur with the asinine stronger than the

prophetic moiety.
     II should be disposed to try him, nevertheless.
     I  don't think I have  ha"dCofienlaelntreervaitsae  of   Biology yet.
                                                         "   is Lankester's  specialty.
        do not know that
However, he is sure to do it well if he takes it up. -- Ever yours
                                                             T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

                                      4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                       Oct. 12, 1875.

    My dear Baynes -- Do you remember my telling you that I

should before long be publishing a book, of which general con

siderations on Biology would form a part, and that I should have to

go over the same ground as in the article for the Encyclopaedia ?
     Well, that prediction is about to be verified, and I want to know
what I am to do.
    IYou see, as
Inor Criticism,    am neither dealing with Theology, nor History,
                   can't take a fresh departure and say something
entirely different from what I have just written.
     IOn the other hand, if republish what stands in the article, the

Encyclopaedia very naturally growls.

1877 LETTERS TO BAYNES                                                                                         4S3

What do the sweetest of Editors and the most liberal of Pro

prietors say ought to be done under the circumstances ?                                                   until I

    I pause for a reply.
    I have carried about Stanley's 1 note in my pocket-book

am sorry to say the flyleaf has become hideously stained.                                                 but

     The wife and daughters could make nothing of
                                  is

                                                            It

                                                                            is
                                                                                           it,

                                                                                          f I,
accustomed to the MS. of certain correspondents, have no doubt as
                                                                    " Canterbury."
to the fourth word of the second sentence.

Nothing can be plainer.           entirely satisfactory, -- Believe me, ever
      Hoping the solution                                   T. H. Huxley.

yours very faithfully,

    Though he refused to undertake the article on Dis

tribution, he managed to write that                       on Evolution (re

published   in Collected          Essays,  ii.187).       Thus on July 28,
1877, he
           writes --                         I
/

                        it
                            is :

                     I
    ought to do " Evolution," but               mightn't and                           II             shouldn't.

Don't see how                   practicable to do justice to with the time at
                                                            it, it
my disposal, though               really should like to do          and am at my

wits' end to think of anybody who can be trusted with it.

Perhaps something may turn up, and so will let you know.
                                                if   I

    The something in the way of more time did turn up by

dint of extra pressure, and the article got written in the

course of      the autumn, as     appears       from        the                        following               of
December
               29, 1877: --

II  send you the promised skeleton (with a good deal of the flesh)
of Evolution.                   costing me infinite labour in the way of reading,
               It

                    is
                                                                                                       a
but am glad to be obliged to do the work, which will be curious
and instructive chapter in the history of Science.

    The lawyer-like faculty of putting aside                                          subject when
                                is                                                   of March 16,
done with, which
                                                                 4:

                                                                                    a
                                  indicated in the letter
1875, reappears in the following --

                                           Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                    March 18, 1878.

My dear Baynes -- Your printers are the worst species of that
diabolic genus know of. It
                                           at least month since sent them
               I

                                             is
                                                  is
                                                                       a

                                                                                  it
                                                                                                  is

                                                                I
11      The Dean's handwriting was proverbial.              almost as illegible as
        The writing of this word carefully slurred until

the original.

4:4                           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, xxx

a revise of " Evolution " by no means finished, and from that time

to this I have had nothing from them.
    I shall forget all about the subject, and then at the last moment

    they will send me a revise in a great hurry, and expect it back by

return of post.               it,  may go to their Father -- Ever yours very
                                                                      T. H. Huxley.
     But if they get                         II I                             !

faithfully,                                                                    I

         Later on, the pressure of work again forbade him to
    undertake further articles on Harvey, Hunter, and Instinct.

a            am sorry to say that my hands are full, and have sworn by                         Ia
    as many gods as Hume has left me, to undertake nothing more for
   I
        long while beyond what am already pledged to do, small
    book anent Harvey being one of these things.

     And on June --
                              9

                                  :

and  After nine days' meditation                   (adniryec"tefdorraerxdcelurs,i"vealsy   to  the Harvey
      Hunter question) am not                                                             the  farmer said
                              I

    after his third bottle of Gladstone claret. So perhaps                                          had

    bfoertte"r    mention     "theandfac"t.  Horseam"--vneroybogdlayd    you  have limed       Flower
                Mammalia                                               could  be better.

                                                       Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                                  July 1879.
                                                     4

                                                        I
                                                           I

                                                                            I,
     My dear Baynes --On Thursday last sought for you at the

    Athenaeum in the middle of the day, and told them to let me know

     you came in in the evening when                                   was there again. But
a if                                                                                           a
    doubt not you were plunged in dissipation.
   I                                                                                             L
     My demonstrator Parker showed me to-day a letter he had
                                                                                                   I
    received from Black's, asking him to do anything in the                                         small
                                                                                                        he
    Zoology way between H and L.
        He modest man, and so didn't ask what the H
                is
                    a

    was to do, but he looked                 it.
         Will you enlighten him or me, and
                                                     a     will convey the information
    on?
                                                        I
                had another daughter married yesterday. She was great
                                                                                               The only
    pet and     it     is is  very hard lines on father and mother.

    consolation that she             has married       right           good fellow,            HJouhxnleyC.ollier
                                     very faithfully,
    the artist. -- Ever yours                                                T. H.

     July 19, 1879. -- Many thanks for your and Mrs. Baynes' con

    gratulations.      I      am very well content with my son-in-law, and have

    almost forgiven him for carrying off one of my pets, which shows

    Christian spirit hardly to be expected of me.

i88o LETTERS TO BA YNES                                           455

                                              South Kensington,
                                                   July 2, 1880.

    My dear Baynes -- I have been thinking over the matter of
Instinct, and have come to the conclusion that I dare not undertake

anything fresh.                               the autumn looming
      There is an address at Birmingham in
                                              threateningly. -- Ever
large, and ghosts of unfinished work flitter   T. H. Huxley.

yours very faithfully,

CHAPTER XXXI

                   1876

THE year 1876 was again a busy one, almost as busy as
any that went before. As in 1875, his London work was

cut in two by a course of lectures in Edinburgh, and sittings
of the Royal Commission on Scottish Universities, and

furthermore, by a trip to America in his summer vacation.
     In the winter and early spring he gave his usual lectures

at South Kensington ; a course to working men " On the
Evidence as to the Origin of Existing Vertebrated Animals,"

from February to   AItnphsertiiltuA(tnNioiamntualr(eJa,anvnuodalsr.yVxe2igi8ie.)taa"bnlOdenxKitvihn.)egd; Boaomrldseecr"
ture at the Royal
Territory between

(Coll. Essays, viii. 1 70) ; and another at Glasgow (February
15)" On the Teleology and Morphology of the Hand."

     In this lecture, which he never found time to get into
final shape for publication, but which was substantially re

peated at the Working Men's College in 1878, he touched
upon one of the philosophic aspects of the theory of evolu

tion, namely, how far is it consistent with the argument from

design ?

      Granting provisionally the force of Paley's argument in
individual cases of adaptation, and illustrating it by the hand
and its representative in various of the Mammalia, he pro

ceeds to show by the facts of morphology that the argu

ment, as commonly stated, fails ; that each mechanism, each

animal, was not specially made to suit the particular purpose

we find it serving, but was developed from a single com
mon type. Yet in a limited and special sense he finds
teleology to be not inconsistent with morphology. The

1876 WORK OF THE YEAR                                                                                            457

two sets of facts flow from a common cause, evolution.

Descent by modification accounts for similarity of structure ;

the process of gradual adaptation to conditions accounts for
the existing adaptation to purpose. To be a teleologist
                                                                                                           "to
and yet accept evolution it is only                                                    noeucte--ssathryat        suppose
that the original plan was sketched                                                                         the  purpose

was foreshadowed in the molecular arrangements out of

which the animals have come."

This was no new view of his. While, ever since his

first review of the Origin in 1859 (Coll. Ess.                                         ii.                 6), he had

declared the commoner and coarser forms of teleology

to find their most formidable opponent in the theory of

evolution, and in 1869, addressing the Geological Society,
had spoken of " those final causes, have been named

barren virgins, but which                                                              might be more fitly

termed the hetaircB of philosophy, so constantly have they

led men astray" (ib. viii. 80 cp. 21, 36), he had, in his
                                                                     ;

                                                                              ii. ii.
Criticism of the Origin (1864,                                                         86), and the Genealogy

of Animals (1869,  ii.  109, sqq.), shown how "perhaps the

most remarkable service to the philosophy of Biology

rendered by Mr. Darwin                                               is  the reconciliation of teleology

and morphology, and the explanation of the facts of both

which his views offer .  .                                               the wider teleology, which              a ; is
                             .

actually based upon the fundamental proposition of evolution."

His note-book shows that he was busy with Reptilia

from Elgin and from India and with his Manual of
                                                                         ;

Invertebrate Anatomy, which was published the next year

while he refused to undertake a course of ten lectures at the

Royal Institution, saying that he had already too much other

work to do, and would have no time for original work.

About this time, also, in answer to a request from

believer in miracles, "that those who fail to perceive the

cogency of the evidence by which the occurrence of miracles

supported, should not confine themselves to the discussion
is
             a

                                                                  ;
of general principles, but should grapple with some particular

case of an alleged miracle," he read before the Metaphysical

Society paper dealing with the evidence for the miracle of

the resurrection. (See p. 319.)                                                                                  a
      Some friends wished him to publish the paper as

contribution to criticism but his own doubts as to the

45*          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         chap, xxxi

opportuneness of so doing were confirmed by a letter from

Mr. John   Morley, then editor  of the  Fortnightly       Review,  to
which he  replied (January 18)
                                :--

     To say  truth, most  of the considerations   you put     so forcibly
             through my                             suspects  oneself of
had passed                mind -- but one always

cowardice when one's own interests may be affected.

     At the beginning of May he went to Edinburgh.                 He
writes home on May 8 :--

    I am in hopes of being left to myself this time, as nobody has
called but Sir Alexander Grant the Principal, Crum Brown, whom I

met in the street just now, and Lister, who has a patient in the

Ihouse. I have been getting through an enormous quantity of

reading, some tough monographs that brought with me, the first
volume of Forster's Life of Swift, Goodsir's Life, and a couple of

Inovels of George Sand, with a trifle of Paul Heyse. You should

read George Sand's Cesarine Dietrich and La Mare au Diable that

have just finished. She is bigger than George Eliot, more flexible,
Ia more thorough artist. It is a queer thing, by the way, that have
Inever read Consuelo.     shall get it here. When I come back from
Imy lecture like to rest for an hour or two over a good story. It

freshens me wonderfully.

     However, social Edinburgh did not leave him long to

himself, but though he might thus lose something of working

time, this loss was counterbalanced by the dispelling of
some of the fits of depression which still assailed him from

time to time.

    On May 2 5 he writes :--

     IThe General Assembly is sitting now, and I thought      would
Ilook in. It was very crowded and I had to stand, so was soon
spied out and invited to sit beside the Lord High Commissioner,

Iwho represents the Crown in the Assembly, and there heard an

ecclesiastical row about whether a certain church should be allowed
to have a cover with IHS on the Communion Table or not.
                                                              I was
After three hours' discussion the IHSers were beaten.

introduced to the Commissioner Lord Galloway, and asked to dine

Ito-night. So I felt bound to go to the special levee at Holyrood

with my colleagues this morning, and shall have to go to my Lady

Galloway's reception in honour of the Queen's birthday to-morrow.
I ILuckily there will be no more of it. Vanity of Vanities ! Saturday
afternoon go out to Lord Young's place to spend Sunday.       have
Ibeen in rather a hypochondriacal state of mind, and will see if

this course of medicine will drive the seven devils out.

                                                              JM

1876 VISITS AMERICA                                                                         459

      One of the chief friendships which sprang from this
residence in Edinburgh was that with Dr. (afterwards Sir
John) Skelton, widely known under his literary pseudonym

of " Shirley." A civil servant as well as a man of letters,

he united practical life with literature, a combination that

appealed particularly to Huxley, so that he was a constant

visitor at Dr. Skelton's picturesque house, the Hermitage of

Braid, near Edinburgh. A number of letters addressed to

Skelton from 1875 to 1891 show that with him Huxley felt
the stimulus of an appreciative correspondent.

                                              4 Melville Street, Edinburgh,

                                                                      June 23, 1876.

    My dear Skelton-- I do not understand how it is that your
Inote has been so long in reaching me ; but I hasten to repel the

libellous insinuation that have vowed a vow against dining at the

Hermitage.

    I Iwish could support that repudiation by at once accepting

your invitation for Saturday or Sunday, but my Saturdays and

Sundays are mortgaged to one or other of your judges (good judges,

obviously).                                                                  If so, I would
      Shall you be at home on Monday or Tuesday ?

put on a kilt (to be as little dressed as possible), and find my way
otruatctsanydoubamcken; tihona.pp--ilyEvimerpryoovuirnsg        mind on the  journey  with  the
                                                            my  faithfully,
                                                          very  T. H. Huxley.

                                                  4 Melville Street, Edinburgh,
                                                                July 1, 1876.

     My dear Skelton-- Very many thanks for the copy of the
Comedy of the Nodes, which reached me two or three days ago.
Turning over the pages I came upon the Shepherd's "Terrible
Journey of Timbuctoo," which I enjoyed as much as when I first
read it thirty odd years ago. -- Ever yours very faithfully,

                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

    On June 2 3 he writes home :--

Did you read Gilman's note asking me to give the inaugural

discourse at the Johns    Hopkins   University, and offering ^100 on
the part of the trustees           minded to do it on our way back
                          ? I am

from the south, but don't much like taking money for the per

Iformance. Tell me what you think about this at once, as must

reply.

     This visit to America had been under discussion for some
time. It is mentioned as a possibility in a letter to Darwin

460  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       chap, xxxi

wttfahwateohs ewcryaoeyma,tmhrsehisasdbifoeonnfleolaodrmwe.eindbgEyhaiasrmnlyesAossnmiangeTerhi1co:8a--7mn6as"coMTrhrrHe.euspxForlwneedhydeoe--nlreticto--nHagwatiivhroeorni,smobniyys

electrified by the announcement that Professor Huxley is to

visit us next fall. We will make infinitely more of him than

we did of the Prince of Wales and his retinue of lords and

dukes." Certainly the people of the States gave him an

enthusiastic welcome ; his writings had made him known

far and wide ; as the manager of the Californian department

at the Philadelphia Exhibition told him, the very miners of

California read his books over their camp fires ; and his

visit was so far like a royal progress, that unless he entered

a city disguised under the name of Jones or Smith, he was
liable not merely to be interviewed, but to be called upon to

" address a few words " to the citizens.

     Leaving their family under the hospitable care of Sir W.

and Lady Armstrong at Cragside, my father and mother
started on July 27 on board the Germanic, reaching New
York on August 5. My father sometimes would refer, half
jestingly, to the trip as his second honeymoon, when, for the

first time in twenty years, he and my mother set forth by

themselves, free from all family cares. And indeed, there

was the underlying resemblance that this too came at the

end of a period of struggle to attain, and marked the

beginning of a more settled period.     His reception in

America may be said to emphasise his definite establishment
                                        It was a signal
in the first rank of English thinkers.

testimony to the wide extent of his influence, hardly

suspected, indeed, by himself; an influence due above all to

the fact that he did not allow his studies to stand apart

from the moving problems of existence, but brought the new

and regenerating ideas into contact with life at every point,

and that his championship of the new doctrines had at the

same time been a championship of freedom and sincerity in

thought and word against shams and self-deceptions of every
kind. It was not
                   so   much the     porefavcheerar citoyf--nenwot  doctrines
who was welcomed,   as  the apostle                                  so much

the student of science as the teacher of men.

     Moreover, another sentiment coloured this holiday visit.

1876 VISITS AMERICA                                                                       461

He was to see again the beloved sister of his boyhood. She

had always prophesied his success, and now after thirty

years her prophecy was fulfilled by his coming, and, indeed,

exceeded by the manner of it.

Mr. Smalley, then London correspondent of the New

York Tribune,  was    a fellow passenger of his                 on board                  the
Germanic, and  tells  an interesting anecdote of
                                                                him :--

Mr. Huxley stood on the deck of the Germanic as she steamed
up the harbour of New York, and he enjoyed to the full that marvellous
panorama. At all times he was on intimate terms with Nature and

also with the joint work of Nature and Man ; Man's Place in Nature
       nteoarhitmheinctietrye--stinthgis                        of view than one. As we
being                                     from   more points
drew                                      was   in 1876, you    will remember -- he asked

what were the tall tower and tall building with a cupola, then the two
Imost conspicuous objects.
                                                to"ldAhh,i"m htehesaTirdi,bu"nethaatndis  the Western
Union Telegraph buildings.                                                                interesting ;
that is American. In the Old World the first things you see as you

approach a great city are steeples ; here you see, first, centres of

intelligence." Next to those the tug-boats seemed to attract him as
                                                                the bay. He
                                          "doIwfnI  and across                            looked long
                                                    were not a  man I think                should like
Ithey tore fiercely up and

at them and finally said,

to be a tug." They seemed to him the condensation and complete

expression of the energy and force in which he delighted.

      The personal welcome he received from the friends he
visited was of the warmest. On the arrival of the Germanic
the travellers were met by Mr. Appleton the publisher, and
carried off to his country house at Riverdale. While his
wife was taken to Saratoga to see what an American summer
resort was like, he himself went on the 9th to Newhaven,
to inspect the fossils at Yale College, collected from the
Tertiary deposits of the Far West by Professor Marsh, with
great labour and sometimes at the risk of his scalp. Pro
fessor Marsh told me how he took him to the University,
and proposed to begin by showing him over the buildings.
He refused. " Show me what you have got inside them ;
I can see plenty of bricks and mortar in my own country."
So they went straight to the fossils, and as Professor Marsh

writes --: *

     One of Huxley's lectures in New York was to be on the
genealogy of the horse, a subject which he had already written about,

                   1 American Journal of Science, vol. 1. August 1895.

LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                            chap, xxxi

based entirely upon European specimens. My own explorations had

led me to conclusions quite different from his, and my specimens

seemed to me to prove conclusively that the horse originated in the

INew World and not in the Old, and that its genealogy must be
worked out here. With some hesitation,        laid the whole matter

frankly before Huxley, and he spent nearly two days going over my

specimens with me, and testing each point I made.

     At each inquiry, whether he had a specimen to illustrate

such and such a point or exemplify a transition from earlier

and less specialised forms to later and more specialised ones,

Professor Marsh would simply turn to his assistant and bid

him fetch box number so and so, until Huxley turned upon

him and said, " I believe you are a magician ; whatever I

want, you just conjure it up."

The upshot of this examination was that he recast a

great part of what he meant to say at New York. When he

had seen the specimens,        and thoroughly       weighed  their
import, continues Professor
                               Marsh --

     He then informed me that all this was new to him, and that my
facts demonstrated the evolution of the horse beyond question, and
for the first time indicated the direct line of descent of an existing
animal. With the generosity of true greatness, he gave up his own
opinions in the face of new truth, and took my conclusions as the
basis of his famous New York lecture on the horse. He urged me

to prepare without delay a volume on the genealogy of the horse,

based upon the specimens I had shown him. This I promised, but

other work and new duties have thus far prevented.

     A letter to his wife describes his visit to Yale :--

     My excellent host met me at the station, and seems as if he

could not make enough of me. I am installed in apartments which

were occupied by his uncle,    the millionaire Peabody, and am as

Iquiet as if were in my own    house. We have had a preliminary
Icanter over the fossils, and   have seen some things which were

worth all the journey across.

IThis is the most charmingly picturesque town, with the streets
lined by avenues of elm trees which meet overhead.  have never

seen anything like and you must come and look at it. There
I
     it,
                            I
                                                                      !

                                             I is
fossil work enough to occupy me till the end of the week, and

have arranged to go to Springfield on Monday to examine the

famous footprints of the Connecticut Valley.

      The Governor has called upon me, and shall have to go and

do pretty-behaved chez lui to-morrow. An application has come for

an autograph, but have not been interviewed

1876 AT YALE                                                                      463

     This immunity, however, did not last long. He appears
to have been caught by the interviewer the next day, for he

writes on the --1 1 th :

I have not seen the notice in the World you speak of. You

                                 awmwitrhit"teasnfofabblleiyttlt"eheanodifntoetfrhve"ietwh"eerh.cigohmfHamleuetriwcniaas"l
will be amused at the   article               did not know, and I am
evidently surprised to  meet
                       says
Iphilosopher in me, and
Ior mercantile " type.
                       That is something

rather proud of it. We may be rich yet.

     As to his work at Yale Museum, he writes in the same

letter :--

      We are hard at work  still. Breakfast   a1t.308.--30d--ingeo--ogvoerbatcok  the
Museum with Marsh at 9                                                              to
                           or 10 --work till

Museum to work till 6. Then Marsh takes me for a drive to see

the views about the town, and back to tea about half-past eight. He

is a wonderfully good fellow, full of fun and stories about his

Western adventures, and the collection of fossils is the most wonder

I Iful thing ever saw. I wish could spare three weeks instead of

one to study it.

ITo-morrow evening we are to have a dinner by way of winding
up, and he has asked a lot of notables to meet me.  assure you I
Iam being " made of," as thought nobody but the little wife was

foolish enough to do.

     On the 1 6th he left to join the ' Alexander Agassiz ' at

Newport, whence he wrote the following letters :--

                                          Newport, Aug. 17, 1876.

    My dear Marsh -- I really cannot say how much I enjoyed

my visit to New Haven. My recollections are sorting themselves

I Iout by degrees and find how rich my store is. The more think

of it the more clear it is that your great work is the settlement of

the pedigree of the horse.                    I am yours very faith
     My wife joins with me in kind regards.
                                                  T. H. Huxley.
fully,

                    To Mr. Clarence King

                                                                  Newport, Aug. 19, 1876.

    My dear Sir -- In accordance with your wish, I very willingly

put into writing the substance of the opinion as to the importance

464               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, xxx1

Iof Professor Marsh's collection of fossils which expressed to you
Iyesterday. As you are aware, devoted four or five days to the

examination of this collection, and was enabled by Prof. Marsh's
kindness to obtain a fair conception of the whole.

    I am disposed to think that whether we regard the abundance

Iof material, the number of complete skeletons of the various species,

or the extent of geological time covered by the collection, which
had the good fortune to see at New Haven, there is no collection
Iof fossil

say this
           vertebrates in existence, which can be compared with              it.  and
            without forgetting Montmartre, Siwalik, or Pikermi
                                                                            --
II think that am quite safe in adding that no collection which has

been hitherto formed approaches that made by Professor Marsh, in

the completeness of the chain of evidence by which certain existing

mammals are connected with their older tertiary ancestry.
     It is of the highest importance to the progress of Biological
Science that the publication of this evidence, accompanied by illus

trations of such fulness   as to              enable   palaeontologists to  fodremlay.th--eirI
own judgment as to its     value,              should   take place without
                                                            Thomas H. Huxley.
am yours very faithfully,

     inBreaking their journey at Boston, they went from New
port to Petersham,         the highlands of the White Mountains,

where they were the guests of Mr. John Fiske, who was
spending the summer there. In the same boarding-house

were Mr. and Mrs. Brooks of Boston, and Mr. and Mrs. Lathrop

(the latter a daughter of Nathaniel Hawthorne), so that they
found themselves in the midst of a particularly cheerful

and delightful party.      From Petersham they proceeded

to Buffalo, the meeting-place that year of the American

Association for the Advancement of Science, which my

father had promised to attend. Here they stayed with Mr.

Marshall, a leading lawyer, who afterwards visited them in

England.

     A week was spent at Niagara, partly in making holiday,

partly in shaping the lectures which had to be delivered at

             of   t--heantripe.xperAiesncteo  the impression made         upon him
Ithe  end  Falls
     the                                                it  is generally  presumed,
by                                                            may note    that after
every traveller is bound to                   which,   --
                                              record

the first disappointment at their appearance, inevitable

wherever the height of a waterfall is less than the breadth,

he found in them an inexhaustible charm and fascination.

As in duty bound, he, with my mother, completed his experi
ences by going under the wall of waters to the " Cave of the

1876 ADDRESS AT BALTIMORE                                                                                       465

Winds." But of all things nothing pleased him more than

to sit of an evening by the edge of the river, and through
the roar of the cataract to listen for the under-sound of the

beaten stones grinding together at its foot.

Leaving Niagara on September 2, they travelled to Cin

cinnati, a 20-hours' journey, where they rested a day ; on the
4th another 1 o hours took them to Nashville, where they were
to meet his sister, Mrs. Scott. Though 1 1 years his senior,

she maintained her vigour and brightness undimmed, as
indeed she did to the end of her life, surviving him by a few
weeks. As she now stood on the platform at Nashville,

Mrs. Huxley, who had never seen her, picked her out from

among all the people by her piercing black eyes, so like

those of her mother as described in the Autobiographical

sketch (Coll. Ess.
      Nashville, her son's home, had been chosen as the meeting-
      i.).

                       it
place by Mrs. Scott, because was not so far south nor so

hot as Montgomery, where she was then living. Nevertheless

in Tennessee the heat of the American summer was very

trying, and the good people of the town further drew upon the
too limited opportunities of their guest's brief visit by send

ing formal deputation to beg that he would either deliver7. a
an address, or be entertained at public dinner, or " state

his views "-- to an interviewer suppose. He could not well
      a; I
               a
refuse one of the alternatives and the greater part of one

day was spent in preparing short address on the geology
of Tennessee, which was delivered on the evening of Septem

ber He spoke for twenty minutes, but had scarcely any

voice, which was not to be wondered at, as he was so tired

that he had kept his room the whole day, while his wife
received the endless string of callers.

The next day they returned to Cincinnati and on the
                                              ;

9th went on to Baltimore, where they stayed with Mr.
Garrett, then President of the Baltimore and Ohio railway.

      The Johns Hopkins University at Baltimore, for which
he was to deliver the opening address, had been instituted

by its founder on a novel basis. It was devoted to post

graduate study the professors and lecturers received
      I
                           ;
                                                                                                          2
incomes entirely independent of the pupils they taught.

Men came to study for the sake of learning, not for the sake

VOL.                                                                                                         H

466  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                            chap, xxxi

of passing some future examination. The endowment was
devoted in the first place to the furtherance of research ;

the erection of buildings was put into the background. " It

has been my fate," commented Huxley, " to see great edu
cational funds fossilise into mere bricks and mortar in the

petrifying springs of architecture, with nothing left to work

them. A great warrior is said to have made a desert and

called it peace. Trustees have sometimes made a palace

and called it a university."

     Half the fortune of the founder had gone to this univer

sity ; the other half to the foundation of a great and splen
didly equipped hospital for Baltimore. This was the reason

why the discussion of medical training occupies fully half of
the address upon the general principles of education, in

which, indeed, lies the heart of his message to America, a

message already delivered to the old country, but specially
appropriate for the new nation developing so rapidly in size

and physical resources.

     I cannot say that I am in the slightest degree impressed by your

bigness or your material resources, as such. Size is not grandeur,
territory does not make a nation. The great issue, about which

hangs a true sublimity, and the terror of overhanging fate,
                             it                                                             what

                                                          ?

                                                                              is
                                                                                       is,
are you going to do with all these things . . .

     The one condition of success, your sole safeguard,  the moral

worth and intellectual clearness of the individual citizen. Educa

tion cannot give these, but  can cherish them and bring them to

the front in whatever station of society they are to be found, and

the universities ought to be and may be, the fortresses of the higher

life of the nation.

     This address was delivered under circumstances of pecu

liar difficulty. The day before, an expedition had been made

to Washington, from which Huxley returned very tired, only

to be told that he was to attend a formal dinner and recep
tion the same evening. " don't know how shall stand
                             I                   I

it," he remarked. Going to his room, he snatched an hour

or two of rest, but was then called upon to finish his address

before going out.    It  seems that had to be ready for simul
                                it

taneous publication in the New York papers. Now the lecture

was not written out  ;       was to be given from notes only.

                        it

So he had to deliver in extenso to the reporter, who took
                     it

1876 LECTURES AT NEW YORK               467

it down in shorthand, promising to let him have a longhand

copy in good time the next morning. It did not come till

the last moment. Glancing at it on his way to the lecture
theatre, he discovered to his horror that it was written
upon " flimsy " from which he would not be able to read it
with any success. He wisely gave up the attempt, and made
up his mind to deliver the lecture as best he could from

memory. The lecture as delivered was very nearly the same
as that which he had dictated the night before, but with
some curious discrepancies between the two accounts, which,
he used to say, occurring as they did in versions both
purporting to have been taken down from his lips, might
well lead the ingenious critic of the future to pronounce them
both spurious, and to declare that the pretended original

was never delivered under the circumstances alleged.1

     There was an audience of some 2,000, and I am told
that when he began to speak of the time that would come
when they too would experience the dangers of over-popula

tion and poverty in their midst, and would then understand
what Europe had to contend with more fully than they did,

a pin could have been heard to drop. At the end of the
lecture, amid the enthusiastic applause of the crowd, he made
his way to the front of the box where his hosts and their

party were, and received their warm congratulations. But

he missed one voice amongst them, and turning to where his
wife sat in silent triumph almost beyond speech, he said,
" And have you no word for me ? " then, himself also deeply

moved, stooped down and kissed her.
     This address was delivered on Tuesday, September 12.

On the 14th he went to Philadelphia, and on the 15 th
to New York, where he delivered his three lectures on

Evolution on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, September

18, 20, and 22.

     These lectures are very good examples of the skill with
which he could present a complicated subject in a simple
form, the subject seeming to unroll itself by the force of its
own naked logic, and carrying conviction the further through
the simplicity of its presentation. Indeed, an unfriendly

1 Cp. the incident at Belfast, p. 413.

468  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, xxxi

critic once paid him an unintended compliment, when trying
to make out that he was no great speaker ; that all he did
was to set some interesting theory unadorned before his
audience, when such success as he attained was due to the

compelling nature of the subject itself.
       Since his earlier lectures to the public on evolution, the

paleontological evidences had been accumulating ; the case
could be stated without some of the reservations of former

days ; and he brings forward two telling instances in con
siderable detail, the one showing how the gulf between two
such apparently distinct groups as Birds and Reptiles is

bridged over by ancient fossils intermediate in form ; the
other illustrating from Professor Marsh's new collections the
lineal descent of the specialised Horse from the more general
type of quadruped.

       The farthest back of these was a creature with four toes
on the front limb and three on the hind limb. Judging
from the completeness of the series or forms so far, he

ventured to indulge in a prophecy.

      Thus, thanks to these important researches, it has become
evident that, so far as our present knowledge extends, the history of
the horse-type is exactly and precisely that which could have been
predicted from a knowledge of the principles of evolution. And the
knowledge we now possess justifies us completely in the anticipation
that when the still lower Eocene deposits, and those which belong to
the Cretaceous epoch, have yielded up their remains of ancestral
equine animals, we shall find, first, a form with four complete toes
and a rudiment of the innermost or first digit in front, with, probably,
a rudiment of the fifth digit in the hind foot ; while, in still older
forms, the series of the digits will be more and more complete, until

we come to the five-toed animals, in which, if the doctrine of

evolution is well founded, the whole series must have taken its

origin.

      Seldom has prophecy been sooner fulfilled. Within two
months, Professor Marsh had discovered a new genus of
equine mammals, Eohippus, from the lowest Eocene deposits
of the West, which corresponds very nearly to the descrip
tion given above.

     He continues :--

   IThat is what mean by demonstrative evidence of evolution.

An inductive hypothesis is said to be demonstrated when the facts

1876 LETTER TO PROFESSOR MARSH                                                                                      469

are shown to be in entire accordance with                                             If that not scientific
                                                                 a                               it : I
proof, there are no merely inductive conclusions which can be said            is it.
                                                                                                      is
to be proved. And the doctrine of evolution, at the present

time, rests upon exactly as secure foundation as the Copernican
theory of the motions of the heavenly bodies did at the time
cohfariatsctepr r--omtuhlegatcioonin. cidenItcse
                                                          logical  basis              of precisely         the same
                                                          of the                                          theoretical
                                                                   observed facts with

requirements.

        "IHe left New York on September 23.                                                               had a very

pleasant trip in Yankee-land," he writes to Professor Baynes,
" and did not give utterance to good deal that am reported
                                                          a

to have said there." He reached England in good time

for the beginning of his autumn lectures, and his ordinary

busy life absorbed him again. He did not fail to give his

London audiences the results of the recent discoveries in

American paleontology, and on December 4 delivered                                                                  Ia

lecture at the London Institution, " On Recent Additions

to the   Knowledge      of the                            PteodigPrreoefesosforthMe aHrsohrse--."         In con
nection   with this
                      he writes

                                             aI           Marlborough Place, London, N.W.
                                                       4                   Die. 27, 1876.

My dear Marsh -- hope you do not think                                                                  remiss of me

that have not written to you since my return, but you will under
a
stand that plunged into coil of work, and will forgive me. But
  II I I
do not mean toI  let  suthcecesyseoarr --sliwphiacwh ay              without sending you all our
good wishes for  its                                               IIhope will not vanish without

seeing you among us.

        blew your trumpet the other day at the London Institution in

lecture about the Horse question.                                      did not know then that you

had got another step back as see you have by the note to my last
                                             I
lecture, which Youmans has just sent me.         aI

        must thank you very heartily for the pains you have taken over
the woodcuts of the lectures. It
                                                          is       great improvement to have the
                                                             a

patterns of the grinders.

        have promised to give lecture at the Royal Institution on the
21st January next, and am thinking of discoursing on the Birds

with teeth. Have you anything new to tell on that subject
have implicit faith in the inexhaustibility of the contents of those
                                                                                                          ?

                                                                                                            I

boxes.

Our voyage home was not so successful as that out. The weather

was cold and got chill which laid me up for several days, in fact
  was not well for some weeks after my return. But am vigorous
I                                                                                                I
               I

                                          a

again now.

47o         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                   CHAP. XXXI

     Pray remember me kindly to all New Haven friends. My wife

joins with me in  ekxipnedcet sttoregseaerdshimandnegxotodyewaris."he--s   for the new year.

"Tell him we                                                  T.          IH.amH, uyxoulersy.very

faithfully,

      On December 1 6 he delivered a lecture " On the Study
of Biology," in connection with the Loan Collection of

Scientific Apparatus at South Kensington (Coll. Essays, iii.
t2o62S)o, cdioeloaglinyg--w"itwhethheavoerigainlloowfetdhethnaatmperoBviionlcoegyo, f
                                                                                       its relation
                                                                                       Biology to
become autonomous ; but I should like you to recollect that
this is a sacrifice, and that you should not be surprised if it

occasionally happens that you see a biologist apparently
trespassing in the region of philosophy or politics ; or

meddling with human education ; because, after all, that

is a part    of his    kingdom which     he  has only voluntarily
forsaken "           to learn biology,  the  use of Museums, and
            -- how

above all, the utility of biology, as helping to give right
ideas in this world, which " is after all, absolutely governed

by ideas, and very often by the wildest and most hypo

thetical ideas."

     This lecture on Biology was first published among the

American Addresses in 1877.

     It was about this time that an extremely Broad Church

divine was endeavouring to obtain the signatures of men
of science to a document he had drawn up protesting

against certain orthodox doctrines. Huxley, however, re

fused to sign the protest, and wrote the following letter of
explanation, a copy of which he sent to Mr. Darwin.

                                                                          Nov. 18, 1876.

     Dear S1r-- I have read the " Protest," with a copy of which
I Iyou have favoured me, and as you wish that
                                             should do so, will

trouble you with a brief statement of my reasons for my inability to

sign it.

    I object to clause 2 on the ground long since taken by Hume
that the order of the universe such as we observe it to be, furnishes

us with the only data upon which we can base any conclusion as to

the character of the originator thereof.
     As a matter of fact, men sin, and the consequences of their sins

affect endless generations of their progeny. Men are tempted, men
are punished for the sins of others without merit or demerit of their

1876 THE HALF-AND-HALF SCHOOL                                                             471

own ; and they are tormented for their evil deeds as long as their

consciousness lasts.

The theological doctrines to which you refer, therefore, are

simply extensions of generalisations as well based as any in physical

science. Very likely they are illegitimate extensions of these

generalisations, but that does not make them wrong in principle.

    And I should consider it waste of time to "protest" against

that which is.
    IAs regards No. 3
                        find that as a matter of experience, erroneous
beliefs are punished,  and right beliefs are rewarded -- though very

Ioften the erroneous belief is based upon a more conscientious study
of the facts than the right belief.  do not see why this should not
Ibe as true of theological beliefs as any others. And as said before,
I do not care to protest against that which is.

IpleasManatnyandthatnakusghtfomr eyaougroocdondgeraalt.u--lationasm.       My tour was very
                                                                      yours very faithfully,

                                                                      T. H. Huxley.

P.S. -- You are at liberty to make what use you please of

this letter.

                                            4 Marlborough Place,
                                                   Nov. 19, 1876.

I IMy dear Darwin -- confess                have less sympathy with the
Ihalf-and-half sentimental school which he represents than
                                                                                          have

with thoroughgoing orthodoxy.

    If we are to assume that anybody has designedly set this

wonderful universe going, it is perfectly clear to me that he is no

more entirely benevolent and just in any intelligible sense of the

words, than that he is malevolent    and unjust.                      --Iinnffiinniittee  benevolence
need not have invented pain and      sorrow at all                                        malevolence

would very easily have deprived      us of  the large                  measure of content
and happiness that falls to our             After all,                Butler's " Analogy "
                                     lot.

is unassailable, and there is nothing in theological dogmas more

contradictory to our moral sense, than is to be found in the facts of

nature. From which, however, the Bishop's conclusion that the
dogmas are true doesn't follow. -- With best remembrances to
                                                                      T. H. Huxley.
Mrs. Darwin, ever yours very faithfully,

     This incident suggests the story of a retort he once
made upon what he considered an unseasonable protest in
church, a story which exemplifies, by the way, his strong
sense of the decencies of life, appearing elsewhere in his
constant respect for the ordinary conventions and his dislike
for mere Bohemianism as such.

      Once in a country house he was sitting at dinner next

472 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y chap, xxxi

to his hostess, a lady who, as will sometimes happen, liked

to play the part of Lady Arbitress of the whole neighbour

hood. She told him how much she disapproved of the

Athanasian Creed, and described how she had risen and left

the village church when the parson began to read it ; and

thinking to gain my father's assent, she turned to him and
said graciously, " Now, Mr. Huxley, don't you think I was
quite right to mark my disapproval ? "
" My dear Lady           " he replied, " I should as soon

think of rising and leaving your table because I disapproved

of one of the entrees."

CHAPTER XXXII

                             1877

In this year he delivered lectures and addresses on the

Geological History of Birds, at the Zoological Society's
Gardens, June 7 ; on " Starfishes and their Allies," at the
Royal Institution, March 7 ; at the London Institution,

Dec. 17, on Belemnites (a subject on which he had written
in 1864, and which was doubtless suggested anew by his

autumn holiday at Whitby, where the Lias cliffs are full of

these fossils); at the Anthropological Conference, May 22,

on Elementary Instruction in Physiology (Coll. Ess. iii. 294),

with special reference to the recent legislation as to experi

ments on living animals ; and on Technical Education to the

Working Men's Club and Institute, December 1 (Coll. Ess.

iii. 404) : a perilous subject, indeed, considering, as he
remarks, that "any candid observer of the phenomena of

modern society will readily admit that bores must be classed

among the enemies of the human race ; and a little con

sideration will probably lead him to the further admission,

...that no species of that extensive genus of noxious creatures
is more objectionable than the educational bore.  In the

course of the last ten years, to go back no farther, I am
afraid to say how often I have ventured to speak of

education ; indeed, the only part of this wide region into

which, as yet, I have not adventured, is that into which I

propose to intrude to-day."

The choice of subject for this address was connected

with a larger campaign for the establishment of technical

education on a proper footing, which began with his work

on the School Board, or was this year brought prominently

474 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxx11

before the public by another address delivered at the Society

of Arts. The Clothworkers Company had already been

assisting the Society of Arts in their efforts for the spread

of technical education ; and in July 1 877 a special committee
of the Guilds applied to him, amongst half a dozen others,

to furnish them with a report as to the objects and methods

of a scheme of technical education. This paper fills sixteen

pages in the Report of the Livery Companies' Committee for

1878. The fundamental principles on which he bases his

practical recommendations  are contained in the following

paragraph :--

     It appears to me that if every person who is engaged in an

industry had access to instruction in the scientific principles on which
that industry is based ; in the mode of applying these principles to

practice; in the actual use of the means and appliances employed;
in the language of the people who know as much about the matter
as we do ourselves ; and lastly, in the art of keeping accounts,
Technical Education would have done all that can be required
of it.

      And his suggestion about buildings was at once adopted

by the Committee, namely, that they should be erected at a

future date, regard being had primarily rather to what is
wanted in the inside than what will look well from the out

side.

      Now the Guilds formed a very proper body to set such

a scheme on foot, because only such wealthy and influential
members of the first mercantile city in the world could afford

to let themselves be despised and jeered at for professing

to teach English manufacturers and English merchants that
they needed to be taught; and to spend £25,000 a year
towards that end for some time without apparent result.

     That they eventually succeeded, is due no little to the
careful plans drawn out by Huxley. He may be described
as " really the engineer of the City and Guilds Institute ; for
without his advice," declared one of the leading members,
" we should not have known what to have done."

     At the same time he warned them against indiscriminate

zeal ; " though under-instruction is a bad thing, it is not
impossible that over-instruction may be worse." The aim of
the Livery Companies should specially be to aid the practical

1877 POSTHUMOUS FAME                                                      475

teaching of science, so that at bottom the question turns

mainly on the supply of teachers.

      On December 1 1, 1879, he found a further oppor

tunity of urging the cause of Technical Education. A lecture

on Apprenticeships was delivered before the Society of Arts

by Professor Silvanus Thompson. Speaking after the lecture

(see report in Nature, 1 879, p. 1 39) he discussed the necessity
of supplying the place of the old apprenticeships by educating

children in the principles of their particular crafts, beyond

the time when they were forced to enter the workshops.

This could be done by establishing schools in each centre of

industry, connected with a central institution, such as was to

be found in Paris or Zurich. As for complaints of deficient

teaching of handicrafts in the Board Schools, it was more

important for them to make intelligent men than skilled

workmen, as again was indicated in the French system.
      As President of the Royal Society, he was on the

above-mentioned Committee of the Guilds from 1883 to

1885, and on December 10, 1883, distributed the prizes in
connection with the institution in the Clothworkers' Hall.

After sketching the inception of the whole scheme, he referred

to the Central Institute, then in course of building (begun in
1882, it was finished in 1884 ; the Technical College, Fins
                             aanndinsstpitoukteionof:--the  difficulties
bury, was older by a year),                                               in
the way of organising such

      That building is simply the body, not the flesh and bones, but
the bricks and stones, of the Central Institute, and the business upon

which Sir F. Bramwell and my other colleagues on the Committee

Ihave been so much occupied, is the making a soul for this body ; and
   can assure you making a soul for anything is an amazingly difficult
operation. You are always in danger of doing as the man in the
story of Frankenstein did, and making something which will event
ually devour you instead of being useful to you.

      And here I may give a letter which refers to the move
ment for technical education, and the getting the City Com
panies under way in the matter. In the words of Mr. George
Howell, M.P.,* it has an additional interest " as indicating the
nature of his own epitaph " ; as a man " whose highest

         1 Who sent it to the Times (July 3, 1895) just after Huxley's death.

4/6

ambition ever was to uplift the masses of the people and
promote their welfare intellectually, socially, and industrially."

                                        4 Maslborough Place, N.W.,
                                                     Jan. 2, 1880.

     Dear Mr. Howell -- Your          letter   is a  w--eloconme eis  New        Year's gift.
There are two things I really         care    about                    the
                                                                                 progress of
scientific thought, and the other is the bettering of the condition of
the masses of the people by bettering them in the way of lifting
themselves out of the misery which has hitherto been the lot of the
majority of them. Posthumous fame is not particularly attractive to
I Ibmee,asbu"t,a
            if am to  be   remembered    at all,     would            rather     it should
                      did  his best to  help the     people           " than     by other
            man who

title. So you see it is no small pleasure and encouragement to me

to find that I have been, and am, of any use in this direction.
    IEver since my experience on the School Board, have been con

Ivinced that should lose rather than gain by entering directly into
Ipolitics. . . . But suppose I have some ten years of activity left
in me, and you may depend upon it I shall lose no chance of striking
Ia blow for the cause I have at heart. I thought the time had come

the other day at the Society of Arts, and the event proves was not
mistaken. The animal is moving, and by a judicious exhibition of

carrots in front and kicks behind, we shall get him into a fine trot
presently. In the meantime do not let the matter rest. . . . The

(City) companies should be constantly reminded that a storm is

brewing. There are excellent men among them, who want to do

what is right, and need help against the sluggards and reactionaries.
I IIt will

that
        be  best for me to be  quiet  ofof reavewnhtisle. ,--butamyo,uywouilrls  understand
        am  watching for the   turn                                               very faith
                                                     T. H. Huxley.
fully,

     This summer, too, he delivered a course on Biology for
Teachers at South Kensington, and published not only his
American Addresses, but also the Physiography, founded upon
the course delivered seven weeks before. The book, of which
3386 copies were sold in the first six weeks, was fruitful in
two ways ; it showed that a geographical subject could be
invested with interest, and it set going what was almost a
new branch of teaching in natural science, even in Germany,

the starting place of most educational methods, where it was
immediately proposed to bring out an adaptation of the book,
substituting, e.g. the Elbe for the Thames, as a familiar
example of river action.

1877 SCOTTISH UNIVERSITIES COMMISSION 477

     He was immensely pleased by a letter from Mr. John
Morley, telling how his step-son, a boy of non-bookish tastes,
had been taken with it. " My step-son was reading it the
other night. I said, ' Isn't it better to read a novel before
going to bed, instead of worrying your head over a serious
book like that ? ' ' Oh,' said he, ' I'm at an awfully interest
ing part, and I can't leave off.' " It was, Mr. Morley con
tinued, " the way of making Nature, as she comes before us

every day, interesting and intelligible to young folks."

     To this he replied on December 1 4 :--

I shall get as vain as a peacock if discreet folk like you say such

Ipretty things to me as you do about the Physiography.

      But it is very pleasant to me to find that have succeeded in

what I tried to do. I gave the lectures years ago to show what I

           the right way                                        to the study of
           nobody would                                         have tried what
Ithought was

nature -- but
                                to lead  suyito--ungso  people
                                follow                  now

the book will do.

    Your step-son is a boy of sense, and I hope he may be taken as

a type of the British public !

     A good deal of time was taken up in the first half of the

year by the Scottish Universities Commission, which neces

sitated his attendance in Edinburgh the last week in
February, the first week in April, and the last week in July.
He had hoped to finish off the necessary business at the first
of these meetings, but no sooner had he arrived in Edinburgh,

after a pleasant journey down with J. A. Froude, than he

learned that " the chief witness we were to have examined to
-day, and whose due evisceration was one of the objects of my

coming, has telegraphed to say he can't be here." Owing to
this and to the enforced absence of the judges on the Com
mission from some of the sittings, it was found necessary to

have the additional meetings at Easter, much to his disgust.

He writes :--

I Iam sorry to say shall have to come here again in Easter
week. It is the only time the Lord President is free from his

courts, and although we all howled privately, there was no help for

it. Whether we finish then or not will depend on the decision of
the Government, as to our taking up the case of you troublesome
Iwomen, who want admission into the University (very rightly too
Ifthink).
           we have to go into this question it will involve the taking

4/8                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY        chap, xxxii

of new evidence and no end of bother. I find my colleagues very
reasonable, and I hope some good may be done, that is the only

consolation.

     I went out with Blackie last evening to dine with the Skeltons, at

a pretty place called the Hermitage, about three miles from here.

 . . . Blackie and I walked home with snow on the ground and a
sharp frost. I told you it would turn cold as soon as I got here, but
I am none the worse.

     It was just the same in April :--

     ...It is quite cold here as usual, and there was ice on the ponds we
passed this morning.  II am much better lodged than was last
time, for the same thanks to John Bruce, but I do believe that the
Edinburgh houses are the coldest in the universe. In spite of a good

breakfast and a good fire, the half of me that is writing to you is as

cold as charity.

     April 4. -- We toil at the Commission every day, and don't make
any rapid progress. An awful fear creeps over me that we shall not

finish this bout.

     While he was in Edinburgh for the third time, his
attention was called to an article in the Echo, the organ of the

anti-vivisection party. He writes :--

     IThe Echo is pretty. It is one of a long series of articles from
the same hand, but    don't think they hurt anybody and they

evidently please the writer. For some reason or other they have

not attacked me yet, but I suppose my turn will come.

     Again :--

     Thank you for sending me John Bright's speeches. They are
very good, but hardly up to his old mark of eloquence. Some

parts are very touching.

     His health was improving, as he notes with satisfaction :

     Every day this week we have had about four hours of the Com

mission, and I have dined out four days out of the six. But I'm no
Ithe waur, and the late dinners have not been visited by fits of
morning blue devils. So am in hopes that I am getting back to

the normal state that Clark prophesied for me.

                                            4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.
                                                              April 29, 1877.

     My dear Skelton -- Best thanks for your second edition. You
paint the system 1 in such favourable colours, that I am thinking of

                      1 i.e. of Scotch education.

i877 HONORARY DEGREE FOR DARWIN

                                     tooofft"aheyqmouua--nsgi-aSncbodatrcbhianriaannfatset."iro-lnifealittyha--emy
Itaking advantage of it for

sure Scotch air would be

might have the inestimable
                         my horde
                        of service

                          advantage

that greatest of all practical advantages in Britain.

We are to sit again in the end of July when Mrs. Skelton and
you if you are wise, will be making holiday.

    Your invitation is most tempting, and if I had no work to do I

should jump at it.
IBut alas !         shall have a deal of work, and I must go to my

Patmos in George Street. Ingrained laziness is the bane of my

existence ; and you don't suppose that with the sun shining down

into your bosky dell, and Mrs. Skelton radiant, and Froude and your
self nicotiant, I am such a Philistine as to do a stroke of work ? -- Ever
                                     T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

      From Edinburgh he went to St. Andrews to make

arrangements for his elder son to go to the University there
as a student the following winter. Then he paid a visit to

Sir W. Armstrong in Northumberland, afterwards spending
a month at Whitby. His holiday work consisted in a great
part of the article on " Evolution " for the Encyclopedia

Britannica, which is noted as finished on October 24, though
not published till the next year.

     In November the honorary degree of LL.D. was

conferred upon Charles Darwin at Cambridge, " a great step
for Cambridge, though it may not seem much in itself," he
writes to Dohrn, November 21. In the evening after the
public ceremony there was a dinner of the Philosophical
Club, at which he spoke in praise of Darwin's services to

science. Darwin himself was unable to be present, but

received an enthusiastic account of the proceedings from his

son, and wrote to thank Huxley, who replied :--

                                     4 Marlborough Place,

                                               Nov. 21, 1877.

My dear Darwin -- Nothing ever gave me greater pleasure than

Ithe using the chance of speaking my mind about you and your work
which was afforded me at the dinner the other night.   said not
a word beyond what I believe to be strictly accurate : and, please Sir,
I didn't sneer at anybody. There was only a little touch of the whip

at starting, and it was so tied round with ribbons that it took
them some time to find out where the flick had hit.

                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

4&>             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         chap, xxx1

     He writes to his wife :--

     I Iwill see if I can recollect the speech.  made a few notes
Isitting in Dewar's room before the dinner.
                                        But as usual did not
Isay some things meant to say, and said others that came up on the

spur of the moment.

     And again :--

    IPlease didn't say that Reaumur was the other greatest scien
tific man since Aristotle. But I said that in a certain character

of his work he  was the biggest      "  man between Aristotle    and   Darwin.
                write out an            authorised version " of    my  speech.
I really must
I hear the Latin oration is to be in Nature this week, and Lockyer
Iwanted me to give him the heads of my speech, but did not think
Iit would be proper to do so, and refused. I have written out my speech
as well as can recollect it. I do not mind any friend seeing           it,  but

you must not let get about as the dinner was private one.
                it                      :a

                    I
     The notes of his speech run as follows --

     Mr. Pres1dent-- rise with pleasure and with alacrity to

respond to the toast which you have just proposed, and may say
                                                                 I

that consider one of the greatest honours which have befallen me,
     I

to be called upon to represent my distinguished friend Mr. Darwin

upon this occasion.                  say to represent Mr. Darwin, for cannot
                      I                                          I

                                                                       a
hope to personate him, or to say all that would be dictated by mind

conspicuous for its powerful humility and strong gentleness.

     Mr. Darwin's work had fully earned the distinction you have

to-day conferred upon him four and twenty years ago but doubt
                                                    ;            I

not that he would have been found in that circumstance an exemplifi

cation of the wise foresight of his revered intellectual mother.

Instead of offering her honours when they ran chance of being
                                                 a

crushed beneath the accumulated marks of approbation of the whole

civilised world, the University has waited until the trophy was

finished, and has crowned the edifice with the delicate wreath

of academic appreciation.

     This what suppose Mr. Darwin might have said had he been
     is
happily able to occupy my place. Let me now speak in my ownis

person and in obedience to your suggestion, let me state as brieflyI

as possible what appear to me to be Mr. Darwin's distinctive merits.is

     From the time of Aristotle to the present day know of but one
                                        II
man who has shown                    himself Mr. Darwin's equal in one field of
                                     Reaumur. In the breadth of range of Mr.
research -- and that

Darwin's investigations upon the ways and works of animals and

plants, in the minute patient accuracy of his observations, and in

the philosophical ideas which have guided them, know of no one

who to be placed in the same rank with him except Reaumur.

187 7 A DISTRESSED MAN OF SCIENCE                                          481

     Secondly, looking back through the same long period of
scientific history, I know of but one man, Lyonnet, who not being
from his youth a trained anatomist, has published such an admirable
minute anatomical research as is contained in Mr. Darwin's work on

the Cirripedes.
      Thirdly, in that region which lies between Geology and Biology,

and is occupied by the problem of the influence of life on the

structure of the globe, no one, so far as I know, has done a more

brilliant and far-reaching piece of work than the famous book upon

Coral Reefs.
I add to these as incidental trifles the numerous papers on

Geology, and that most    delightful of popular scientific         books,  the
                                                                  my case  for
Journal of a Naturalist,  and I think I have made out

the justification of to-day's proceedings.
But I have omitted something.
                                            There is the Orig1n 0/ Species,
and all that has followed it from the same marvellously fertile brain.

      Most people know Mr. Darwin only as the author of this work,

and of the form of evolutional doctrine which it advocates. I desire

to say nothing about that doctrine. My friend Dr. Humphry has

Isaid that the University has byto-day's    opnrloyceseadying"sI  committed itself
                                    can                           am very glad to
to the doctrine of evolution.
hear it." But whether that doctrine be true or whether it be false, I

wish to express the deliberate opinion, that from Aristotle's great
summary of the Biological knowledge of his time down to the present

day, there is nothing comparable to the Origin of Species, as a con
nected survey of the phenomena of life permeated and vivified by a

central idea. In remote ages the historian of science will dwell

upon it as the starting-point of the Biology of his present and our

future.

I My friend Dr. Humphry has adverted to somebody about whom
  know nothing, who says that the exact and critical studies pursued
in this University are ill-calculated to preserve a high tone of

mind.

    I presume that this saying must proceed from some one wholly
unacquainted with Cambridge. Whoever he may be, I beg him, if

he can, to make the acquaintance of Charles Darwin.

    In Mr. Darwin's name I beg leave to thank you for the honour

you have done him.

It happened that the quadrennial election of a Lord

Rector at St. Andrews University fell in this year, and on

behalf of a number of students, Huxley received a telegram

from his   son, now newly entered at St.    Andrews,              asking  him
to stand.
             He writes to his wife :--

That boy of yours has just sent me a telegram, which I enclose.
                                                                  2I
VOL. I

482  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                           cha1'. xxx11

I sent back message to say that as a Commissioner on the Scotch
Universities I could not possibly stand. The cockerel is beginning
to crow early. I do believe that to please the boy I should have

assented to it if it had not been for the R. Commission.

     Apropos of controversies (November 23)

      We had a grand discussion at the Royal Society last night
between Tyndall and Burdon Sanderson. The place was crammed,
and we had a late sitting. I'm not sure, however, that we had got
much further at the end than at the beginning, which is a way
controversies have.

     The following story is worth recording, as an illustration

not only of the way in which Huxley would give what help

was in his power to another man of science in distress, but

of the ready aid proffered on this, as on many other

occasions, by a wealthy northern merchant who was inter
ested in science. A German scientific worker in England,

whom we will call H., had fallen into distress, and applied

to him for help, asking if some work could not be put in

his way. Huxley could think of nothing immediate but to

suggest some lessons in German literature to his children,

though in fact they were well provided for with a German

governess ; nevertheless he thought it a proper occasion to

avail himself of his friend's offer  to give  help  in  deserving

cases. He writes to his wife :--

     I made up my mind to write to X. the day before yesterday ;

this morning by return of post he sends me a cheque not only for
the £60 which I said H. needed, but
                                     over for his present needs

with a charming letter.

     It came in the nick of time, as H. came an hour or two after it

arrived, and with many apologies told me he was quite penniless.
The poor old fellow was quite overcome when I told him
                                                        how

matters stood, and it was characteristic that as soon as he got his

breath again, he wanted to know when he would begin teaching the

children ! I sent him to get an order on the Naples bank for

discharge of his debt there. X.'s express stipulation was that his

name should not be mentioned, so mind you say not a word about

his most kind and generous act.

      The following letters of miscellaneous        interest were

written in this year :--

1877 'BOTTLED LIFE'                                                    483

                                       4 Marlborough Place,

                                                Nov. 21, 1877.

    My dear Morley -- I am always at the command of the
Fortnightly so long as you are editor, but I don't think that the

Belemnite1 business would do for you. The story would hardly be

intelligible without illustrations.
    IThere are two things
                                am going to do which may be more to
Ithe purpose. One is a screed on Technical Education which am

going to give to the Working Men's Union on the 1st December.

in   The other is a  osof rht isof30fi0lothgebiornthdHaayr--veywhaitchthwe aRs oAylalflooInlsstiDtuatyi.on
    March apropos
    IYou shall have either of these you like, but
                                                   advise Harvey ;
Ias if succeed in doing what I shall aim at it will be interesting.

      Why the deuce do you live at Brighton ? St. John's Wood is
far less cockneyfied, and its fine and Alpine air would be much

better for you, and I believe for Mrs. Morley, than the atmosphere

of the melancholy main, the effects of which on the human consti

tution have been so well expounded by that eminent empiric,

IDr. Dizzy.   wish we could see something  of you now and then.
                                            T. H. Huxley.
     Anyhow,
-- Ever yours very faithfully,

    Darwin got his degree with great eclat on Saturday. I had to

return thanks for his health at the dinner of the Philosophical

ISociety ; and oh ! chaffed the dons so sweetly.

                                       4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                       Nov. 27, 1877.

     My dear Morley -- You shall have both the articles -- if it is

Ionly that may enjoy the innocent pleasure of Knowles' face when

I let him know what has become of them.

    IStormy ocean, forsooth ! I back the storm and rain through

which came home to-night against anything London-super-mare

has to show.
    I will send the MS. to Virtue as soon as it is in a reasonable
state. -- Ever yours very faithfully,      T. H. Huxley.

                                                        4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                                     Jan. 8, 1878.

     My dear Morley -- Many thanks for the cheque. In my

humble judgment it is quite as much as the commodity is worth.

     It was a great pleasure to us all to have you with us on New
Year's Day. My wife claims it as her day, and I am not supposed

                 1 The lecture at the London Institution mentioned above.

4S4                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       chap, xxx11

to know anything    about the guests      etxhceeptsacSrepdencfeerasta--ndso       Tyndall.
None but the very   elect are invited to                                            you see

where you stand among the predestined who cannot fall away from

Ithe state of grace.

         have not seen Spencer in such good form and good humour

combined for an age.
I Ias
         am working away at   Haforrvweayr,d.an--d   will  send the MS. to Virtue's
     soon as am sufficiently                        Ever   yours very faithfully,

                                                                        T. H. Huxley.

                                                    4 Marlborough Place,

                                                               Dec. 9, 1877.

     My dear Tyndall-- I am so sorry to have been out when
I IMrs. Tyndall called to-day. By what we heard at the x on
Thursday,    imagined you were practically all right again, or

Ishould have been able to look after you to-day.

      But what bother you with this note for is to beg you not to

lecture at the London Institution to-morrow, but to let me change

Idays with you, and so give yourself a week to recover. And if you

are seedy, then am quite ready to give them another lecture on

the Hokypotamus or whatever else may turn up.

     But don't go and exert yourself in your present condition.

These severe colds have often nothing very tangible about them,

but are not to be trifled with when folks are past fifty.
     ILet me have an answer to say that
                                                           may send a telegram to
INicholson

vice you.
             first  "tbhointgtledtol-imfeo,"rraoswHmutotronningcaltlso  say that       will lecture
                                                                        it in the  Spectator1 this
             My

week, is quite ready to go off.  take     my        advice. --Ever                 yours  very
      Now be a sane man and                                             T. H. Huxley.

faithfully,

    * The Spectator for Dec. 8, 1877, began an article thus :-- " Professor Huxley

delivered a very amusing address last Saturday at the Society of Arts, on the
very unpromising subject of technical education ; but we believe that if Professor
Huxley were to become the President of the Social Science Association, or of

the International Statistical Congress, he would still be amusing, so much

bottled life does he infuse into the driest topic on which human beings ever
contrived to prose."

                   CHAPTER XXXIII

                            1878

The year 1878 was the tercentenary of Harvey's birth, and
Huxley was very busy with the life and work of that great

physician.         He spoke at the memorial meeting at the

College of Physicians (July 1 8), he gave a lecture on Harvey

at the Royal Institution on January 25, afterwards published
in Nature and the Fortnightly Review, and intended to write

a book on him in a projected English Men of Science series

(see p. 536).

I am very glad you like " Harvey " (he writes to Prof. Baynes on
IFeebx.pe1c1t).to  He is one of the biggest scientific  minds we have
                   get well vilipended not only by the   anti-vivisection  had.
Ifor the most of whom I have a hearty contempt, but                        folk,

Bacon.       have been      oppressed by the humbug      of the  "apBraocpoons iaonf
Induction   " all my life,   and at last the worm has   turned.

      Now in this lecture he showed that Harvey employed
vivisection to establish the doctrine of the circulation of the

blood, and furthermore, that he taught this doctrine before

the Novum Organum was published, and that his subsequent
Exercitatio displays no trace of being influenced by Bacon's
work. After glancing at the superstitious reverence for the
" Baconian Induction," he pointed out Bacon's ignorance of
the progress of science up to his time, and his inability to
divine the importance of what he knew by hearsay of the
work of Copernicus, or Kepler, or Galileo ; of Gilbert, his
contemporary, or of Galen ; and wound up by quoting Ellis's
severe judgment of Bacon in the General Preface to the

Philosophic Works, in Spedding's classical edition (p. 38) :--

" That his method is impracticable cannot, I think, be denied,

4S6 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxxm

if we reflect, not only that it never has produced any result,

but also that the process by which scientific truths have

been established cannot be so presented           as even to appear
to be in accordance with it."
                                                  itself upon him, I
     How early this conviction had forced

cannot say ; but it was certainly not later than 1859, when
the Origin of Species was constantly met with " Oh, but this
is contrary to the Baconian method." He had long felt
what he expresses most clearly in the " Progress of Science "

(Coll.  Ess. i. 46-57)    that Bacon's "majestic eloquence and
fervid    vaticinations  " which " drew the attention of all
the world to the ' new birth of Time ' " were yet, for all
practical results on discovery, " a magnificent failure." The
desire for " fruits " has not been the great motive of the

discoverer ; nor has discovery waited upon collective research.
" Those who refuse to go beyond fact," he writes, " rarely

get as far as fact ; and any one who has studied the

history of science knows that almost every great step therein

has been made by the ' anticipation of nature,' that
                                                    ;                          by

                                                                          is,
the invention of hypotheses, which, though verifiable, often
had very little foundation to start with and, not un-
frequently, in spite of long career of usefulness, turned out

to be wholly erroneous in the long-run."
                         aa
      Thus he had been led to a settled disbelief in Bacon'sa
scientific greatness, that reasoned " prejudice " against which
Spedding himself was moved to write twice in defence of

Bacon. In his first letter he criticised            passage in the
                                                  a
lecture touching this question.       On the one hand, hea
remarks, " Bacon would probably have agreed with you as
                                                              a
to his pretensions as scientific discoverer (he calls him
self bellman to call other wits together, or trumpeter,                  ?
aa
or maker of bricks for others to build              wiftrha)g.m" entO--n       the
                                                                               the
other hand, he asks, ought            passage from
                                    unpublished in  Bacon's lifetime,
Tcmporis partus masculus --

to be treated as one of his representative opinions

In his second letter he adduces, on other grounds, his

own more favourable impression of Bacon's philosophical

influence. A peculiar interest of this letter lies in its testi

mony to the influence of Huxley's writings even on his elder

contemporaries.

1878 THE BACONIAN METHOD                                             487

                    From James Spedding

                                                  Feb. 1, 1878.

. . . When you admit that you study Bacon with a prejudice, you

mean of course an unfavourable opinion previously formed on

sufficient grounds. Now I am myself supposed to have studied him

with a prejudice the other way : but this I cannot admit, in any
                                I                 his acquaintance I had no
sense of the word   ; for when      first made
opinion or feeling  about him   at                than the ordinary expecta
                                     all -- more

tion of a young man to find what he is told to look for. My earliest
impression of his character came probably from Thompson --

whose portrait of him, except as touched and softened by the tenderer
hand of " the sweet-souled poet of the Seasons," did not differ from

Ithe ordinary one. It was not long indeed before did begin to

form an opinion of my own ; one of those a/ter-judgments which are

liable to be mistaken for prejudices by those who judge differently,
and which, being formed, do, no doubt, tell upon the balance. For

it was not long before I found myself indebted to him for the

greatest benefit probably that any man, living or dead, can confer

on another. In my school and college days I had been betrayed

by an ambition to excel in themes and declamations into the study,
                                                      In the course
admiration, and imitation of the rhetoricians.                       of my
                                                  was inspired with  a new
last long vacation -- the autumn of 1 830 -- I
Iambition, namely, to think justly about everything which thought
Iabout at all, and to act accordingly ; a conviction for which cannot
cease to feel grateful, and which I distinctly trace to the accident of

having in the beginning of that same vacation given two shillings at

a second-hand bookstall for a little volume of Dove's classics, con

taining the Advancement of Learning. And if I could tell you how
many superlatives I have since that time degraded into the positive ;
Ihow many innumerables and infinites have replaced by counted

numbers and estimated quantities ; how many assumptions, im

portant to the argument in hand, I have withdrawn because I found

on more consideration that the fact might be explained otherwise ;
Iand how many effective epithets I have discarded when
                                                                     found
Ithat could not fully verify them ; you would think it no less than
Ijust that should claim for myself and concede to others the right
of being judged by the last edition rather than the first. That a

persistent endeavour to free myself from what you regard as Bacon's

characteristic vice should have been the fruit of a desire to follow

his example, will seem strange to you, but it is fact. Perhaps you
will think it not less strange, but it is my real belief, that if your

own writings had been in existence and come in my way at the

same critical stage of my moral and mental development, they would

have taught me the same lesson and inspired me with the same

48S

ambition ; for in that particular                             may say without offence)
                                     is

                                                 (iIf

                                                                                 it
                                                                                     a

                                                                                I
look upon you both as eminent examples of the same virtue.

     To the lecture he refers once more in letter to Mr.
John Morley. The political situation touched on in this
and the next letter, that of the end of the Russo-Turkish
war and the beginning of the Afghan war.

                                     Science Schools, South Kensington,

                                                    I         Feb.         1878.

     My   dear  Morley               -- Many thanks for            itthe wcohueqldue",   and  still more
                                                                           7,           draw  " Hutton,
for  the  good  word for             the article.*            knew
                                                                                                it
and his ingenuity has as usual made the best of the possibilities of

attack.   am glad to find, however, that he does not think ex
    I II
pedient to reiterate his old story about the valuelessness of vivisectionI

in the establishment of the doctrine of the circulation.!
          hear that that absurd creature R
                        it                                               goes about declaring
                            is
that      have made all sorts of blunders. Could not somebody be

got to persuade him to put what he has to say in black and white
                                                    a is
                                                                         a

                                                                                     a

                                                                                           if ; ?
      Controversy as abhorrent to me as gin to reclaimed drunkard

but oh dear                   would be so nice to squelch that pompous impostor.

      hope you admire the late aspects of the British Lion. His

tail goes up and down from the intercrural to the stiffly erect atti

tude per telegram, while his head                             sunk in the windbag of the

House of Commons.

      am beginning to think that war would be good thing
    I
                                                               of all the
                       it                                     Ever yours
only for the             inevitable  bricnleganabosuwt.ee--p                present governing
people which                would                                          very faithfully,
                                                                           T. H. Huxley.

                              To his Eldest Daughter

                                     Science Schools, South Kensington,

                                                              Dec.
                                     if                                    1878.

                                       I

                                               1
                                                a
                                                                                            7,

                                                                                       a
                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                              ;
      Dearest Jess-- You are badly used young person -- you are
and nothing short of that conviction would get letter out of your

still worse used Pater the bete noire of whose existence                                      letter-

writing.

      Catch me discussing the Afghan question with you you little

pepper pot. No, not                  know it. Read Fitzjames Stephen's

letter in the Times, also Bartle Frere's memorandum, also Napier

of Magdala's memo. Them's my sentiments.

                                     On Harvey.

1878 THE AFGHAN WAR                                                                                 489

     Also read the speech of Lord Hartington on the address. He
is a man of sense like his father, and you will observe that he declares

that the Government were perfectly within their right in declaring war
without calling Parliament together. . . .

    If you had lived as long as I have and seen as much of men,

ccyoloemuvemwrnooenusplslda--ceceoabspteaoiwnto.ersbe--sauirdperdisedby  at the reputations men of  essentially
                                                                         circumstances and some     amount of

       I am as strong for justice as any one can be, but it is real

justice, not sham conventional justice which the sentimentalists

howl for.

       At this present time real justice requires that the power of

England should be used to maintain order and introduce civilisation

wherever that power extends.

       The Afghans are a pack of disorderly treacherous bloodthirsty

thieves and caterans who should never have been allowed to escape

from the heavy hand we laid upon them, after the massacre of

twenty thousand of our men, women (and) children in the Khoord
Cabul Pass thirty years ago.

      We have let them be, and the consequence is they now lend

themselves to the Russians, and are ready to stir up disorder and

undo all the good we have been doing in India for the last genera

tion.

       They are to India exactly what the Highlanders of Scotland were

to the Lowlanders before 1745 ; and we have just as much right to
deal with them in the same way.

    I am of opinion that our Indian Empire is a curse to us. But

so long as we make up our minds to hold we must also make up
           it
                                                  it,

                                                                     is
                                                                        it
our minds to do those things which are needful to hold effectually,

and in the long-run will be found that so doing                           real justice

both for ourselves, our subject population, and the Afghans them

selves.

    There, you plague. -- Ever your affec. Daddy,

                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

    A few days later he writes to his son --

     The Liberals are making fools of themselves, and " the family "
declare am becoming Jingo Another speech from Gladstone

    expected to complete my conversion.
is         a
                             !
        I
                                                                 :

      Among other occupations he still had to attend the
Scottish Universities Commission, for which he wrote the

paragraph on examinations its report he lectured on the
                              in

                                                             ;

49o LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxxiii

Hand at the Working Men's College ; prepared new editions
of the Physiography, Elementary Physiology, and Vertebrate
Anatomy, and at length brought out the Introductory Primer

in the Science Primer Series, in quite a different form from

what he had originally sketched out. But his chief interest

lay in the Invertebrata. From April 29 to June 3 he
lectured to working men at Jermyn Street upon the Cray

fish ; read a paper on the Classification and Distribution of

Crayfishes at the Zoological Society on June 4, and
lectured at the Zoological Gardens weekly from May 17
to June 2 1 on Crustaceous Animals. In all this work lay
the foundations of his subsequent book on the Crayfish,
which I find jotted down in the notes of this year to be

written   as   an  introduction   to   Zoology, together  wMithant--he
" Dog ,"  as   an  introduction  to   the Mammalia, and
already dealt with in Man's Place in Nature --as an intro

duction to Anthropology. This projected series is completed

with a half erased note of an introduction to Psychology,

which perhaps found some expression in parts of the Hume,

also written this year.

He notes down also, work on the Ascidians, and on the

morphology of the Mollusca and Cephalopods brought back

by the Challenger, in connection with which he now began

the monograph on the rare creature Spirula, a remarkable
piece of work, being based upon the dissections of a single

specimen, but destined never to be completed by his hand,

though his drawings were actually engraved, and nothing

remained but to put a few finishing touches and to write
detailed descriptions of the plates.

     Letters to W. K. Parker and Professor Haeckel touch on

this part of his work ; the former, indeed, offering a close
parallel to a story, obviously of the same period, which the

younger Parker tells in his reminiscences, to illustrate the

way in which he would be utterly engrossed in a subject for

the time being. Jeffery Parker, while demonstrator of
biology, came to him with a question about the brain of the
codfish at a time when he was deep in the investigation of
some invertebrate group. " Codfish ? " he replied, " that's a
vertebrate, isn't it? Ask me a fortnight hence, and I'll

consider it."

1878 LETTER TO HAECKEL                                                                              491

                                                     4 Marlborough Place,

                                                               Sept. 25, 1878.

     My dear Parker -- As far as I recollect Amniocxtes is a verte
Ibrated animal -- and ignore it.
                                               to was written by my best friend -- a care
   IThe paper
                                                 am sure that he saw what he says he
fulish kind of
                             myaonu--reafnedr
saw, as if I had seen it myself.

      But what the           fact may             mean and whether it is temporary or
                             servant a            dog that he should worry himself about
permanent -- is thy
other things with backbones ? Not if I know it.

     Churchill has got over a whole batch of the American edition of
                             I
the    Vertebrata, so        --  have          a   respite. Mollusks               are far more interest
ing                              while            the dinner crayfish              hath no parallel for
     -- bugs sweeter

intense and absorbing interest in the three kingdoms of Nature.
                             the Scripture? "Go to the                             Ant
In    What saith             study the Invertebrata. -- Ever                              thou   sluggard."
     other words,                                                                  yours  very  faithfully,
                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.

as   [Sketch of a vast           winged           eaynetglaadsvseasn,cin"gwelol,n   a midget, and   saying,
    it looks through a           pair of                                           really, what an  absurd

creature ! ! "]                                   4 Marlborough Place, London,
                                                               April 28, 1878.

     My dear Haeckel-- Since the receipt of your letter three
months ago, I have been making many inquiries about Medusa for
I Iyou, but
Iuntil   could hear of none -- and so                have delayed my reply,

     My  d"oSuabmt mnoltunygou"           have been blaspheming my apparent neglect.
                                          ! ! 1 My dear friend, my cabin on board H. M.S.

Rattlesnake was 7 feet long, 6 feet wide, and 5 feet 6 inches high.
When my bed and my clothes were in there was not much room
                                                  I it,
for any collection, except the voluntary one made by some thousands
of specimens of Blatta Orientalist with whose presence should have     a

been very glad to dispense.                                       I

     My Medusa were never published.                 have heaps of notes and

drawings and half-a-dozen engraved plates. But after the publication

of the Oceanic Hydrozoa was obliged to take to quite other occupa
     if                                           like the " full many flower, born to
                I

                         aI

                                            is
tions, and all that material

blush unseen," of our poet.

    If you would pay us visit you should look through the whole

mass, you liked, and you might find something interesting.
     At present, am very busy about Crayfishes (Flusskrebse) work

ing out the relations between their structure and their Geographical

Distribution, which are very curious and interesting.
          have also nearly finished the anatomy of Spirula for the
    I
                             Collection.          2  The cockroach.
                          1

492 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxx111

Challenger. It is essentially a cuttlefish, and the shell is really

internal. With                       only one specimen, is has been a long and trouble

some job -- but                      I shall establish all the essential points and give

half-a-dozen plates of anatomy.

You will recollect my eldest little daughter ? She is going to be
                                       It is the
married   next   Saturday.           -- though      first  break in our family, and we
are very  sad   to lose her                         well   satisfied with her prospects.

She is but just twenty and a charming girl, though you may put that

down to fatherly partiality if you like.
     The second daughter has taken to art, and will make a painter if

she be wise enough not to marry for some years.

    My eldest son who comes next is taller than I am. He has been

at one of the Scotch Universities for the last six months ; and one

of these fine days, next month, you will see a fair-haired stripling

asking for Herr Professor Haeckel.

    I am going to send him to Jena for three months to pick up your

noble vernacular ; and in the meanwhile to continue his Greek and

IfMathematics, in which the young gentleman is fairly proficient.

you can recommend any Professor under whom he can carry on his

studies, it will be a great kindness.

    I will give him a letter to you, and while I beg you not to give
yourself any trouble about him, I need not say I shall be very grateful

for any notice you may take of him.

     I am giving him as much independence of action as possible, in

order that he may learn to take care of himself.

ystoaugneNg--o--wwahntihcdahtyoIius  enough about    my children. Yours must yet be
                                     have not yet   got to the marriage and university
                                     assure you is  much more troublesome than the

measles and chicken-pox period.

wisheMs.y--wEifveerunyiotuerss       with   me in kindest  rememTb.ranHc.esHuaxnledyg. ood
                                     very  faithfully,

An outbreak of diphtheria among his children made the

spring of 1878 a time of overwhelming anxiety. How it

told   uPpaornkerhi--s               strong and self-contained chief is related  by
                                     " I never saw a man more crushed than       he
T. J.
was during the dangerous illness of one of his daughters,

and he told me that, having then to make an after-dinner

speech, he broke down for the first time in his life, and for

one painful moment forgot where he was and what he had

to say." This was one of the few occasions of his absence
from College during the seventies. " When, after two days,
he looked in at the laboratory," writes Professor Howes, " his

dejected countenance and tired expression betokened only

too plainly the intense anxiety he had undergone."

1878 VISIT FROM PROFESSOR MARSH

The history of the outbreak was very instructive. Huxley

took a leading part in organising an enquiry and in looking
into the matter with the health officer. " As soon as I can
"Iget all the facts together," he writes on Dec. i o,
                                                                 am

going to make a great turmoil about our outbreak of

diphtheria --and see whether I cannot get our happy-go-

lucky local government mended." As usual, the epidemic

was due to culpable negligence.      In the construction of

some drains, too small a pipe was laid down. The sewage

could not escape, and flooded back in a low-lying part of

Kilburn. Diphtheria soon broke out close by. While it

was raging there, a St. John's Wood dairyman running short
of milk, sent for more to an infected dairy in Kilburn. Every

house which he supplied that day with Kilburn milk was

attacked with diphtheria

But with relief from this heavy strain, his spirits instantly

revived, and he writes to Tyndall.

                                          4 Marlborough Place,
                                                  May 20, 1878.

My dear Tyndall -- I wrote you a most downhearted letter this

morning about Madge, and not without reason. But having been
away four hours, I come home to find a wonderful and blessed
Ifchange. The fever has abated and she is looking like herself.
Ishe could only make herself heard,
I see it in her eyes.                should have some sauciness.

If you will be so kind as to kiss everybody you meet on my
                                          You may begin with
account it will be a satisfaction to me.     T. H. Huxley.

Mrs. Tyndall !-- Ever yours,

Professor Marsh, with whom Huxley had stayed at

Yale College in 1876, paid his promised visit to England

immediately after this.

                                 4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                  June 24, 1878. (Evening.)

    IMy dear Marsh -- Welcome to England
Ihear of your arrival -- but the news has only
                                          !     am delighted to
                                                reached me, as
                                          just

have been away since Saturday with my wife and sick daughter who

are at the seaside. A great deal has happened to us in the last six

or seven weeks. My eldest daughter married, and then a week after

an invasion of diphtheria, which struck down my eldest son, my

youngest daughter, and my eldest remaining daughter all together.
Two of the cases were light, but my poor Madge suffered terribly,

494

and for some ten days we were in sickening anxiety about her.
                                                                    I
She is   foslrowallyarmg--ainbinugt   strength now,    and              hpoipeecesth--erteheis   no more
cause                                my household    is all         to                          Lares and

Penates gone, and painters and disinfectors in their places.
--orYoneuvewr illexcpeertcat infloyrgihvaevneessto
                                                    run down to     Margate  and  see my wife
                                                    in this world.
     I shall be
     four-- and  at the Science                     Schools, South Kensington, tomorrow
                                                    you before that time shall come and
                 if I do not see
Itill
Ilook you up at the Palace Hotel. -- am, yours very faithfully,
                                                                        T. H. Huxley.

     " Is it not provoking," he writes to his wife, " that we
should all be dislocated when I should have been so glad to

show him a little attention ? " Still, apart from this week

end  at the  seaside, Professor Marsh was not                           entirely  neglected.
He   writes
             in his Recollections (p. 6) :--

      How kind Huxley was to everyone who could claim his friend

ship, I have good cause to know. Of the many instances which

occur to me, one will suffice. One evening in London at a grand
                                                                                                 of every
annual reception of  the Royal Academy,                      "wWhehreen  celebrities            America,
rank were present,   Huxley said to me,
                                                                          I was in
Iyou showed me every extinct animal that had read about, or even
dreamt of. Now, if there is a single living lion in all Great Britain
that you wish to see, I will show him to you in five minutes." He
Ikept his promise, and before the reception was over, I had met many
of the most noted men of England, and from that evening,                                        can

date a large number of acquaintances, who have made my subsequent

visits to that country an ever-increasing pleasure.

     As for his summer               occupations,            he writes to his eldest

daughter on July 2 :--

     INo, young woman, you don't catch me attending any con
gresses     can avoid, not even if F. is an artful committee-man.
         go to the British Association at Dublin -- for my sins -- and
I must

Iafter that we have promised to pay a visit in Ireland to Sir Victor
Brooke. After that must              settle         myself down in            Penmaenmawr
and write a little book about        David
                                                    Hume -- before           the grindery of

the winter begins.

     The meeting of the British Association took place this
year in the third week of August at Dublin. Huxley gave
an address in the Anthropological subsection,* and on the

    1 "Informal Remarks on the Conclusions of Anthropology," i?. A. Report,

1878, pp. 573-578-

1878 HIS BOOK ON HUME                                                   495

20th received the honorary degree of LL.D. from Dublin

University, the Public Orator presenting him in the following

words :--

nphihyislPicr(uapmehsielo--nstoohpohmvioaibnimes moTdfhoaocsumunaadmulumc,emHleenpprridiaceuufmemr,atv)eHrneuufxosltreumymid----anhetuoenmmdie--nmemneauivtlleeumrde

quidem Ennianum,
                   Simia quam similis, turpissima bestia, nobis.

      The extract above given contains the first reference to
the book on Hume,* written this summer as a holiday

occupation at Penmaenmawr.        The speed at which it

was composed is remarkable, even allowing for his close
knowledge of the subject, acquired many years before.
Though he had been " picking at it " earlier in the summer,

the whole of the philosophical part was written during

September, leaving the biographical part to be done later.
      The following letters from Marlborough Place show him

at work upon the book :--

                                  March 31, 1878.

    My dear Morley -- I like the notion of undertaking your Hume
Ibook, and I don't see why should not get it done this autumn.
IBut you must not consider me pledged on that point, as cannot

quite command my time.
     Tulloch sent me his book on Pascal. It was interesting as

everything about Pascal must be, but Tulloch is not a model of

style.

    I have looked into Bruton's book, but I shall now get it and

study it. Hume's correspondence with Rousseau seems to me

Itypical of the man's sweet, easy-going nature. Do you mean to have
a portrait of each of your men ?  think it is a great comfort in a

biography to get a notion of the subject in the flesh.

    I have rather made it a rule not to part with my property in my
books -- but I daresay that can be arranged with Macmillan.
Anyhow I shall be content to abide by the general arrangement if

you have made one.

      We have had a bad evening. Clifford has been here, and he is

extremely ill -- in fact I fear the worst for him.

     It is a thousand pities, for he has a fine nature all round, and

time  arwe oaullldvehryavfeonrdipeonf ehdim.h--imEvienrtoyosuorsmevtehrinygfaitvhefruylly,considerable.
We                                T. H. Huxley.

1 In the " English Men of Letters " series, edited by Mr. John Morley.

49$ LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxx1n

                                                                    July 6, 1878.

My dear Morley -- Very many thanks for Diderot. I have

Imade a plunge into the first volume and found it very interesting.
I wish   you had put a portrait of him as     a frontispiece.                  have seen
one --  a wonderful face, something like     Goethe's.
    II

better
am picking         at Hume at       odd times.  of  Itthesee"mIns qtuoirym,e"  that    had
  make an          analysis and      criticism                                  the  back
Ibone of the essay -- as it touches all the problems which interest us
most just now.     have already sketched out a chapter on Miracles,
which will, I hope, be very edifying in consequence of its entire
agreement with the orthodox arguments against Hume's a priori

reasonings against miracles.

Hume wasn't half a sceptic after all. And so long as he got

deep enough to worry Orthodoxy, he did not care to go to the

bottom of things.
                   to see the importance of
     He    failed  and Berkeley. -- Ever yours      suggestions already              made
both by    Locke                                      very faithfully,
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

                                                                    Sept. 30, 1878.

My dear Morley -- Praise me ! I have been hard at work at
                              and I have
Hume at Penmaenmawr,                            --gobtloctkheed     hard   part      of the
business -- the account of  his philosophy                           out  in the     bodily

Ishape of about 180 pages foolscap MS.                                            Hume's

      But find the job as tough as it is interesting.

diamonds,   before the public can see them          shparpoepe--rlya,ndwatnhtata  proper
setting in  a methodical and consistent                                           implies

writing a small psychological treatise of one's own, and then cutting

Iit down   into   as unobtrusive a  mfoyrmdraausghptos--sibflreo.m  the point of view of
       So   am    working away at

an aesthetic jeweller.

    As soon as I get it into such a condition as will need only
verbal trimming, I should like to have it set up in type. For it is a
defect of mine that I can never judge properly of any composition

of my own in manuscript.                        I should very much                like to
      Moreover (don't swear at this wish)
send it to you in that shape for criticism.
      The Life will be an easy business.            I should like to get the
                                                    doprosmo iisfe.po--ssiEbvlee.r
book out of hand   before Christmas,  and will                                         But
my lectures begin  on Tuesday, and                                                   yours
                                      I cannot                      T. H. Huxley.

very faithfully,

                                                                                                            Oct. 21, 1878.

    My dear Morley -- I have received slips up to chap. ix.
of Hume, and so far I do not think (saving your critical pre

1878 HIS BOOK ON HUME                                                                                                497

sence) that there will be much need of much modification or in
terpolation.

    I have made all my citations from a 4-vol. edition of Hume,

published by Black and Tait in 1826, which has long been in my

possession.

    Do you think I ought to quote Green and Grose's edition ? It
Iwill be a great bother, and really don't think that the under

standing of Hume is improved by going back to eighteenth-century

spelling.

    II am at work upon the Life, which should not take long. But
I wish that had polished that off at Penmaenmawr as well. What

with lecturing five days a week, and toiling at two anatomical mono

graphs, it is hard to find time.
dthineeAPsshoimlsooesoondpahayys----I aIhftaewvreilyl ogsuoennhedavttehherlomouogktheodyaolalut
                                                                                                 the eleven chapters about

                                                                                                 and get you  to  come and
                                                                                                              go
                                                                                                 them --and       into it. --
                                                                                                 T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

                                            Science Schools, S. Kensington,

                                                                                                 Oct. 29, 1878.

     IMy dear Morley -- Your letter has given me great pleasure.
For though       have thoroughly enjoyed the work, and seemed to
myself to have got at the heart of Hume's way of thinking, I could
not tell how it would appear to others, still less could I pretend to
I Ijudge of the literary form of what
                                                                       had written. And as was

quite prepared to accept your judgment if it had been unfavourable,

so being what it          iIs,  hug myself proportionately and begin to give

myself airs as man of letters.
            I.                                                                                   life -- that the
          am              all the               part of Hume's
struggling     it                                successful and                                  the feted begins
I                      athrough-- andinteresting                                                 I
    I          part of    it        David the
                                                                                                              2
                             I                                                                                         is,
rather to bore me, as am sorry to say most successful people do.
                                                                                                                           a
hope to send the first chapter to press in another week.
   Might not be better, by the way, to divide the little book into

two  parts?   -- Life,
     Part
                          Literary          and Political              work.
     Part II. -- Philosophy,

subdividing the latter into chapters or sections? Please tell me

what you think.

       have not received the last chapter from the printer yet. When
it it I
  do willII   foivneisrhit.r--evisEivneg,r  and then ask you to                                  come            and have
symposium                                   yours very faithfully,
             I                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.
                                                       !a
                                                                   is
     P.S. -- Macmillan has lien on "The Hand."                                                                gave part of

the lecture in another shape at Glasgow two years ago, and M. had
Ifreported for his magazine.
                                            he                         good and patient he will get

in some shape some day

     VOL.                                                                                                         K

498 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxx111

                                            4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                          Nov. 5, 1878.

    My dear Morley -- " Davie's " philosophy is now all in print,

and all but a few final pages of his biography.

     So I think the time has come when that little critical symposium

may take place.

     Can you come and dine on Tuesday next (12) at 7 ? Or if any
day except Wednesday 15th, next week, will suit you better, it will

do just as  well for        me. There       will be nobody but my wife and
daughters,  so don't
                            dress. -- Ever  yours  very  faithfully,              Huxley.
                                                                T. H.

of  P.S. -- Will   you      be disgusted   if in imitation of the " English       Men
    Letters " I    set      a-going an    " English Men of Science."              Few

people have any conception of the part Englishmen have played in
science, and I think it would be both useful and interesting to bring

the truth home to the English mind.

    I had about three thousand people to hear me on Saturday at

Manchester, and it would have done you good to hear how they

cheered at my allusion to personal rule. I had to stop and let them

ease their souls.
    Behold my PS. is longer
                                            thoaonzingmyoutl.ette"r.        It's  itnhepissctermong"
feminine element in my character                                      Desinit

though, and a mighty queer fish too.

                                                   4 Marlborough Place,
                                                          Jan. 12, 1879.

    Dear Lecky --I am very much obliged for your suggestion
                                 I am ashamed to
about   the note at p.      9.                            say that                though the
eleven   day correction     was   familiar enough                                 had never
                                                         to me, I

thought about the shifting of the beginning of the year till you men

tioned it. It is a law of nature, I believe, that when a man says
what he need not say he is sure to blunder. The note shall go

out.

    All I know about Sprat is as the author of a dull history of the
Royal Society, so I was surprised to meet with Hume's estimate of

him.

    INo doubt about the general hatred of the Scotch, but you will
observe that                make Millar responsible for the peace -making

assurance.

    IWhat you said to me in conversation some time ago led me to

look at Hume's position as a moralist with some care, and quoted

the passage at p. 206 that no doubt might be left on the matter.
      The little book threatened to grow to an undue length, and there

fore the    q--uesEtvioenr  of morals is treated more    briefly than was perhaps
desirable.                  yours very faithfully,
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

1878 "ENGLISH MEN OF SCIENCE" SERIES                                 499

      Early in November I find the first reference to a
proposed, but never completed, " English Men of Science "

series in the letter to Mr. Morley above. The following
letters, especially those to Sir H. Roscoe, with whom he

was concerting the series, give some idea of its scope : --

                                         4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                         Dec. 10, 1878.

    My dear Roscoe --You will think that I have broken out into
letter-writing in a very unwonted fashion, but I forgot half of what
I had to say this morning.

      After a  gthoeod"  deal of  consultation with Macmillans,   who were
anxious that             English  Men of Science " series should  not be too
extensive, I have arranged
                                  the books as follows :--

1. Roger Bacon.

2. Harvey and the Physiologists of the 17th century.
3. Robert Boyle and the Royal Society.
4. Isaac Newton.

5. Charles Darwin.                                                 Davy,
6. English Physicists, Gilbert, Young, Faraday, Joule.
7. English Chemists, Black, Priestley, Cavendish,

Dalton.

8. English Physiologists and Zoologists of the 18th century,

Hunter, etc.

 9. English Botanists, Ray, Crew, Hales, Brown.
10. English Geologists, Hutton, Smith, Lyell.

We may throw in the astronomers if the thing goes.

Green of Leeds will undertake 1 o ; Dyer, with Hooker's aid, 9 ;
M. Foster 8 ; and I look to you for 7.
                                                  I          hope  he will.
      Tyndall has half promised to do Boyle, and
Clerk-Maxwell can't undertake Newton, and hints X. But I won't
Ihave X. -- he is too much of a bolter to go into the tandem.
                                                                     am

thinking of asking Moulton, who is strongly recommended by Spottis

woode, and is a very able fellow, likely to put his strength into it.

    IDo you know anything about Chrystal of St. Andrews?1
forget whether I asked you before. From all I hear of him I
expect he would do No. 6 very well. I have written to Adamson

Iby this post.                      and  Darwin to my share. --Ever

         shall get off with Harvey                    T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

               1 Now Professor of Mathematics at Edinburgh.

500 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxx1u

       My dear                                    4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                                            Dec. 26, 1878.

                 Roscoe -- I was very loth to lump the chemists

together, but Max was very strong about not having too many books
                               o"tdheisrsohcaiantdi,onI
in the series ;  and on   the                            "  had my    doubts how far the
chemists were    capable                                     without   making the book
                          of

too technical.

    But I do not regard the present arrangement as unalterable,

and if you think the early chemists and the later chemists would do

better in two separate groups, the matter is quite open to considera

tion.

      Maxwell says he is overdone with work already, and altogether

declines to take anything new. I shall have to look about me for a

man to do the Physikers.

     Of course Adamson will have to take in a view of the science of

the Middle Ages. That will be one of the most interesting parts of

the book, and I hope he will do it well. I suppose he knows his

Dante.                                                                            other. I trust

      The final cause of  boys is to catch               s--omEevtheinr gyouorrs   very faithfully,
that yours is demeasling   himself properly.                          T. H. Huxley.

                                                            4 Marlborough Place,

    IMy dear Tyndall -- I                                             Dec. 1878.

that you would see " anyone    consider  your               saying     the other evening
                                else d        d             first,"   before you would

assent to the little proposal made to you, as the most distinct and
binding acceptance you are capable of. You have nothing else to

swear by, and so you swear at everybody but me when you want to

pledge yourself.

     It will release me of an immense difficulty if you will undertake
R. Boyle and the Royal Society (which of course includes Hooke) ;

and the subject is a capital one.

       The book should not exceed about 200 pages, and you need

not be ready before this time next year. There could not be a
more refreshing piece of work just to enliven the dolce far niente of
the Bel Alp. (That is quite d la Knowles, and I begin to think I
have some faculty as an editor.)
      Settle your own terms    with Macmillan.               They will            Hebneutexraplseriysjeo..yf--ul
                               are going to take            part in the
as I shall be to know you
                                                                 T. H.
Ever yours faithfully,

       My dear                                              4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                 Dec. 31, 1878.

                 Tyndall-- I would sooner have your Boyle, how

ever long we may have to wait for                        than anybody else's
                                         it,
                                                                                 d
                                                                                             d

1878 ILLNESS OF W. K. CLIFFORD

simmer. (Now that's a "goak," and you must ask Mrs. Tyndall to
explain it to you.)

     Two years will I give you from this blessed New Year's eve,
1878, and if it isn't done on New Year's Day 1881 you shall

not be admitted to the company of the blessed, but your dinner

shall be sent to you between two plates to the most pestiferous
                                                                      I am
corner of the laboratory of the Royal Institution.                              very
                                                                     proper     New
Iglad you will undertake the job, and feel that have a

Year's gift.

By the way, you ought to have had Hume ere this. Macmillan

I Isent me two or three copies, just to keep his word, on Christmas
Day, and thought          should have a  lot  more at once.          -- and  I
      But there is no                    an   advertisement                     don't
                       sign -- not even

know what has become of the edition. Perhaps        the              bishops    have

bought it up. -- With all good wishes, Ever yours,
                                              T. H. Huxley.

Two letters -- both to Tyndall -- show his solicitude for

his friends.  The one speaks of a last and unavailing

attempt made by W. K. Clifford's friends to save his life

by sending him on a voyage (he died not long after at
Madeira) ; the other urges Tyndall himself to be careful of
his health.

                                              4 Marlborough Place,
                                                     April 2, 1878.

    Mv dear Tyndall-- We had a sort of council about Clifford
Iat Clark's house yesterday morning -- H. Thompson, Corfield, Payne,

Pollock, and myself, and am sure you will be glad to hear the

result.

From the full statement of the nature of his case made by

Clark and Corfield, it appears that though grave enough in all

conscience, it is not so bad as it might be, and that there is a

Ichance, might almost say a fair chance, for him yet. It appears

that the lung mischief has never gone so far as the formation of a

cavity, and that it is at present quiescent, and no other organic

Idisease is   --divsecoryvesraabdlley.       The alarming symptom     is  aSungdeanyer--al
                                        obvious when he was with us  on
prostration
which, as understand, rather renders him specially obnoxious to a

sudden and rapid development of the lung disease than is itself to

be feared.

     It was agreed that they should go at once to Gibraltar by the
P. and O., and report progress when he gets there. If strong enough
he is to go on a cruise round the Mediterranean, and if he improves

by this he is to go away for a year to Bogota (in S. America) which
appears to be a favourable climate for such cases as his.

                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xxxm

       If he gets worse he can but return. I have done my best to
impress upon him and his wife the necessity of extreme care, and I

hope they will be wise.

       It is very pleasant to find how good and cordial everybody
                    by I
                                                         I

                                                                                                it
                                                                                                        is,
helpful in word and deed to the poor young people.                            know will

rejoice the cockles of your generous old heart to hear it.

    As for yourself, trust you are mending and allowing yourself

to  be taken care of   your                 household  goddess.      -- Ever
     With our united  love                 to her and    yourself,
                                                                              yours  faith
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.
fully,

        sent your cheque to Yeo.
    I
                                                                         May, 1878.
                ;
       My dear Tyndall -- You were very much wanted on Satur

day, as your wife will have told you, but for all that would not
                                                                     Ia
                                                                         I
have had you come on any account. You want thorough long

rest and freedom from excitement of all sorts, and am rejoiced to

hear that you are going out of the hurly-burly of London as soon as

possible and, not to be uncivil, do hope you will stay away as
                                                  I
                                                        I
long as possible, and not be deluded into taking up anything excit

ing as soon as you feel lively again among your mountains.                           have

    Pray give up Dublin. If you don't, declare will try
                                                                     I
enough influence with the council to get you turned out of your
                                                                                  is
office of Lecturer, and superseded.
                                                                                  iIf

                                                                                                     it
    Do seriously consider this, as you will be undoing the good
results of your summer's rest.
                                           is     believe your heart          as sound

as your watch was when you went on your memorable slide,*I

but you go slithering down avalanches of work and worry
        if

you can't always expect to pick up "the little creature" none

the worse. The apparatus                   by one of the best makers, but

has been some years in use, and can't be expected to stand rough

work.

    You will be glad to hear that we had cheerier news of Clifford

on Saturday.        He was distinctly             better, and setting           out on  his
Mediterranean      voyage. -- Ever yours           very faithfully,
                                                                              Huxley.
                                                                  T. H.

        A birthday letter to his son concludes the year :--

                                                            Marlborough Place, N.W.,4

                                                                                         Dec. 10, 187S.is

      Your mother reminds me that to-morrow your eighteenth birth
day, and though know that my " happy returns " will reach you
few hours too late cannot but send them.
                   II                                                         J.

                                        ;                                                    a
        On the Piz Morteratseh1            Hours  of  Exercise in the Alps, by Tyndall,
ch. xix.

1878 PARENTAL ADVICE                                           5o3

     You are touching manhood now, my dear laddie, and I trust

Ithat as a man your mother and may always find reason to regard

you as we have done throughout your boyhood.

The great thing in the world is not so much to seek happiness
                                    I have not troubled
as to earn peace and self-respect.                             you much
with paternal didactics--but that   bit is " ower true "       and worth

thinking over.

                END OF VOL. 1

                Printed by R. S. K. Clark, Limited, Edinburgh

LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                               OF

THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY

                                                                BY HIS SON

                  LEONARD HUXLEY

                                      IN TWO VOLUMES
                                            VOL. II

                                       Ronton

                MACMILLAN AND CO., Limited

                                                       1900
                                                      All rights rtsirved

  First Edition October 1900
   Reprinted November 1900

HAY -9

                           CONTENTS

CHAP.                                          PACE
                                                     1
       I. ( 1879)
                                              20
    II- <1881)
                                                37
  III. '1882)                                 48
                                     . 65
IV. ( 1883)                                   78
                                     · 103
    V. ( 1884)          .                     121

  VI. ( 1884-1885)                            137
 VII. <1885)                         . 150

VIII. ;1886)                                  169
  IX <1886)                                   186
                                             201
    X. 1887)                         . 216
                                     . 237
  XI. I 1887)                        . 258
 XII. 1888)                                 277
XIII. ;1888)                                296
                                            318
XIV. '1889)                                  330
                                             344
  XV.  | 1889)          .                      371
 XVI.  ( 1 890- 189 1)  .                      395
XVII.  ;189<>-189i)

XVIII. ( 1892)
  XIX. ( 1892)

    XX. ( 1892)

  XXI. ( 1893)
 XXII. ( 1894)
XXIII. ( 1895)

.......vi
   CHAP.
                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

                                           PAGE

XXIV.            ...... 404
 XXV. (1895)                                                                                  424

Appendix I. .    . . 447

Appendix II.                                          .451

Appendix III.                              453

Appendix IV.                               470

Index         .  . ..                      .475

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Portrait after the Painting by the Hon. John Collier in

the National Portrait Gallery, 1883 .  .                     Frontispiece

Portrait from a Photograph by H. Huxley, about 1881 To face page 16
......,,,,The Study at Hodeslea -- from a Water-colour by
Portrait from a Photograph by Downey, 1890 .             ,,  ,, 256

Reginald Barrett                                                 277

Portrait from a Photograph by Mayall, 1893               ,,  ,,  352
Facsimile of a Sketch, Pithecanthropus erectus .                 394
Portrait with his Grandson, from a Photograph            ,,  ,,
                                                                 435
 .....,,,,Kent and Lacey. 1895                by


                     CHAPTER I

                                        1879

MUCH of the work noted down for 1878 reappears in my
father's list for 1879. He was still at work upon, or meditat

ing his Crayfish, his Introduction to Psychology, the Spirula

Memoir, and a new edition of the Elementary Physiology.

Professor H. N. Martin writes about the changes necessary for
adapting the " Practical Biology " to American needs ; the

article on Harvey was waiting to be put into permanent

form. Besides giving an address at the Working Men's

College, he lectured on Sensation and the Uniformity of the

Sensiferous Organs {Coll. Ess. vi.), at the Royal Institution,

Friday evening, March 7 ; and on Snakes, both at the

Zoological Gardens, June 5, and at the London Institution,
             O"nThFeebCrhuaarraycte3rs                              the Royal
Dec. 1.  on                             he   read a paper    at     Mammalia,
Society                                      the Pelvis in  the
                                         of

and the Conclusions respecting the Origin of Mammals
                                             "
which  may be based  on  them                       and  published  in  Nature
                                                 ;
for November 6 a paper on " Certain Errors Respecting the

Structure of the Heart, attributed to Aristotle."

Great interest attaches to this paper. He had always

wondered how Aristotle, in dissecting a heart, had come to

assert that it contained only three chambers ; and the desire

to see for himself what stood in the original, uncommented

on by translators who were not themselves anatomists, was

one of the chief reasons (I think the wish to read the Greek

Testament in the original was another) which operated in
making him take up the study of Greek late in middle life.

His practice was to read in his book until he had come to
VOL. II
                                                                        B

2                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           chap, i

ten new words ; these he looked out, parsed, and wrote
down together with their chief derivatives. This was his

daily portion.

      When at last he grappled with the passage in question,

he found that Aristotle had correctly described what he saw

under the special conditions of his dissection, when the right

auricle actually appears as he described                           an enlargement
of the " great vein." So that this, at least, ought to be          it,
                                                                               is
removed from the list of Aristotle's errors. The same                                       is

shown to be the case with his statements about respiration.

His own estimate of Aristotle as physiologist                                      between
                                                       a

the panegyric of Cuvier and the depreciation of Lewes, "he

carried science step beyond the point at which he found                                     it
   meritorious, but not miraculous, achievement." And
                       a                                                                        ;
                                        a
a                                                                                           it
    a
will interest scholars to know that from his own experience

as lecturer, Huxley was inclined to favour the theory that

the original manuscripts of the Historia Animalium, with

their mingled accuracy and absurdity, were notes taken by

some of his students. This essay was reprinted in Science

and Culture,           p.       80.

                             1

      This year he brought out his second volume of essays on

various subjects, written from 1870 to 1878, under the title
of Critiques and Addresses, and later in the year, his long-

delayed and now entirely recast Introductory Primer in the

Science Primer Series.

                                     it I         Barnepark Terrace, Teignmouth,

                                           is          Sept. 12, 1879.
                                               6
   My dear Roscoe -- send you by this post my long-promised

Primer, and like set of sheets goes to Stewart.1
   I
     You            awill see that   cut  me    quite different    --frobmut  my first    sketch,
Geikie's  primer having                          out of that line                 think     much
                                                                 it
better.
                                                                    /

                                                                                        it
   You will see that the idea to develop Science out of common
                                                is

observation, and to lead up to Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and

Psychology.

           want the    thing         to be good as     far  as      goes, so don't spare
                       yours         very faithfully,
criticism. --Ever                                                  T. H. Huxley.

   Best remembrances from us all, which we are jolly.

        Balfour Stewart, Professor of Natural Philosophy in Owens College,1
Manchester.

1879 ASSOCIATION OF LIBERAL THINKERS                                       3

     To his other duties he now added that of a Governor of
Eton College, a post which he held till 1888, when, after
doing what he could to advance progressive ideas of educa

tion, and in particular, getting a scheme adopted for making
drawing part of the regular curriculum, ill-health compelled

him to resign.

As for other pressure of work (he writes to Dr. Dohrn, February
I16), with
Ithing to
the exception of the      Zoological Society,   theneRvoeryalhanveowa--ny
do with the affairs       of any society but

find the latter takes up all my disposable time. . . . Take comfort
Ifrom me.                                                                  I
           find 53 to be a very youthful period of existence.
have been better physically, and worked harder mentally, this last

twelvemonth than in any year of my life. So a mere boy, not yet

40 like you, may look to the future hopefully.

      From about this time dates the inception of a short-lived

society, to be called the Association of Liberal Thinkers.
It had first taken shape in the course of a conversation at
Prof. W. K. Clifford's house ; the chief promoter and

organiser being a well-known Theistic preacher, while on the
council were men of science, critics, and scholars in various

branches of learning. Huxley was chosen President, and

the first meeting of officers and council took place at

his house on January 25.

     Professor G. J. Romanes was asked to join, but refused on
the ground that even if the negations which he supposed

the society would promulgate, were true, it was not expedient

to offer them to the multitude. To this         Huxley  wrote the

following reply (January 2, 1879) :--

    Many thanks for your letter. I think it is desirable to explain

that our Society is by no means intended to constitute a propa

Iganda of negations, but rather to serve as a centre of free thought.

     Of course have not a word to say in respect of your decision.

I quite appreciate your view of the matter, though it is diametrically

opposed to my own conviction that the more rapidly truth is spread
among mankind the better it will be for them.

      Only let us be sure that it is truth.

      However, a course of action was proposed which by no
means commended itself to several members of the council.
Tyndall begs Huxley " not to commit us to a venture of the
kind unless you see clearly that it meets a public need, and

4                             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                          CHAP. I

that it will   b--e           worked      by     able         men,"   and  on          February                 6 the
latter writes

     After careful consideration of the whole circumstances of the
Icase,
         have definitely arrived at the conclusion that it is not

expedient to go on with the undertaking.

    I therefore resign my Presidency, and I will ask you to be so

good as to intimate my withdrawal from the association to my

colleagues.

     In spite of having long ago " burned his ships " with
regard to both the great Universities, Huxley was agreeably
surprised by a new sign of the times from Cambridge. The
University now followed up its recognition of Darwin two
years before, by offering Huxley an honorary degree, an
event of which he wrote to Professor Baynes on June 9 :--

    I shall be glorious in a red gown at Cambridge to-morrow, and
Ihereafter look to be treated as a person of respectability.

        have done my best to avoid that misfortune, but it's of no use.

    A curious coincidence occurred here. Mr. Sandys, the

public orator,* in his speech presenting him for the degree,
picked out one of his characteristics for description in the
Horatian phrase, " Propositi tenax." Now this was the family

motto; and Huxley wrote to point out the coincidence :--

ran  1   Tfohlelowsspee:--ch   delivered    by   the public   orator  on this occasion (June 10, 1879)
     as                       Academi     inter   silvas qui  verum   quaerunt, non modo ipsi veritatis

lumine vitam hanc umbratilem illustrare conantur, sed illustrissimum quemque

veritatis investigatorem aliunde delatum ea qua par est comitate excipiunt.

Adest vir cui in veritate exploranda ampla sane provincia contigit, qui sive in

animantium sive in arborum et herbarum genere quicquid vivit investigat, ipsum

illud vivere quid sit, quali ex origine natum sit : qui exquirit quae cognationis

necessitudo   inOtelirmpriionresOcilelaasnovivAenutsiutrmali,spuebciiesreect tihsas"qoucauelisetiammonnsutrnac  supersunt,
intercedat.                                                                                                     natantia"

vidit, victoriam prope primam, velut alter Perseus, a Medusa reportavit ; varias

deinceps animantium formas quasi ab ipsa Gorgone in saxum versas sagacitate

singulari explicavit ; vitae denique universae explorandae vitam suam totam

dedicavit. Physicorum inter principes diu honoratus, idem (ut verbum mutuemur
    mCeatratepshiyosicsillo"          laudes ipse in hac
a"                             cujus  debito prosecutus est.  urbe quondam praedicavit) etiam
                              honore                           Ilium demum liberaliter educatum

esse existimat qui cum ceteris animi et corporis dotibus instructus sit, tum prae-

sertim quicquid turpe sit oderit, quicquid sive in arte sive in rerum natura

pulchrum sit  diligat ; neque tamen ipse (ut ait                      Aristoteles)  "  "animalium parum
pulchrorum    contemplationem fastidio puerili                        reformidat       ; sed in perpetua

animantium serie hominis vestigia perscrutari conatus, satis ampla liberalitate in
universa rerum natura "humani nihil a se alienum putat." Duco ad vos virum

intrepidum, facundum, propositi tenacem, Thomam Henricum Huxley.

1879 HONORARY DEGREE AT CAMBRIDGE                                             5

                                 Sc1ence and Art   DJuenpeartImI, e1n8t7, 9.

                                South Kensington,

IMy dear Mr. Sandys -- beg your acceptance of the inclosed

photograph, which is certainly the best ever executed of me.

And by way of a memento of the claim which you established
Iandodt eodnlayntoimtpheresesloioqnueoncf ethebusteaal lswoiththe"
                                    insight  porfopaopsirtoip"hewt,rit   have
                                    Tenax                               plain,
Iif not large. As mentioned to you, it belonged to my eldest
Ibrother, who has been dead for many years.
                                                              trust that the

Heralds' College may be as well satisfied as he was about his right

to the coat of arms and crest.

     My own genealogical inquiries  hianvteeretsatkenme.m--e   so far back that
I confess the later stages do not                             Ever yours very
faithfully,                                           T.
                                                              H. Huxley.

      The British Association met at Sheffield in 1879, anc^
Huxley took this occasion to "eat the leek" in the matter

of Bathybius (see vol. i. p. 296). It must be remembered

that his original interpretation of the phenomenon did not
involve any new theory of the origin of life, and was not
put forward because of its supposed harmony with Darwin's

speculations.1

      In supporting a vote of thanks to Dr. Allman, the
President, for his address, he said (see Nature, Aug. 28,

1879):--

    II will ask you to allow me to say one word rather upon my own

account, in order to prevent a misconception which, think, might
I Iarise, and which should regret if it did arise.
                                                              daresay that no

one in this room, who has attained middle life, has been so fortunate

as to reach that age without being obliged, now and then, to look
back upon some acquaintance, or, it may be, intimate ally of his

youth, who has not quite verified the promises of that youth. Nay,

let us suppose he has done quite the reverse, and has become a very
questionable sort of character, and a person whose acquaintance

does not seem quite so desirable as it was in those young days ; his

     1 "That which interested me in the matter was the apparent analogy of
Bathybius with other well-known forms of lower life, such as the plasmodia of

the Myxomycetes and the Rhizopods. Speculative hopes or fears had nothing to

do with the matter ; and if Bathybius were brought up alive from the bottom of
the Atlantic to-morrow, the fact would not have the slightest bearing, that I can
discern, upon Mr. Darwin's speculations, or upon any of the disputed problems of
biology. It would merely be one elementary organism the more added to the
thousands already known." (Coll. Ess. v. 154.)

6            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, i

way and yours have separated ; you have not heard much about

him ; but eminently trustworthy persons have assured you he has

done this, that, or the other ; and is more or less of a black sheep,

       tThhinegP--residheanrdt,ly  in an  early part of his  address, alluded to
                                    know
                                           whether ought     to call it a thing or
                                          name Bathybius,    and he stated, with
I Iin fact.

a certain

not --of
      which he gave you the
Iperfect justice, that had brought that thing into notice ; at any rate,
Iindeed, christened
                       and am, in certain sense, its earliest friend.
       a
             a

               I

                         a it,

                        I
                             I

                                  I it, a
                                            I
For some time after that interesting Bathybius was launched into

the world, number of admirable persons took the little thing by

the hand, and made very much of and as the President was good

enough to tell you, am glad to be able to repeat and verify all the

statements, as matter of fact, which had ventured to make about

it. And so things went on, and thought my young friend Bathy

bius would turn out        credit to me. But am sorry to say, as

time has gone on, he has not altogether verified the promise of his

youth.                 I
                          I;
     In the first place, as the President told you, he could not be
found when he was wanted and in the second place, when he was

found, all sorts of things were said about him. Indeed, regret to
be obliged to tell you that some persons of severe minds went so
                                              a

                                                 I
                                                          I

                                                               I is

                                                             I
Iffar as to say that he was nothing but simply gelatinous precipitate
of slime, which had carried down organic matter.                     that so,

am very sorry for for whoever may have joined in this error, am
       it
undoubtedly primarily responsible for it. But do not know atit,

the present time of my own knowledge how the matter stands.

Nothing would please me more than to investigate the matter afresh

in the way ought to be investigated, but that would require                      a

voyage of some time, and the investigation of this thing in its native

haunts a kind of work for which, for many years past, have had
   is                                                                I

no opportunity, and which do not think am very likely to enjoy          is
                                          is
again. Therefore my own judgment          in an absolute state of sus      I is
                                             I

                                                      is,
                                                                 is
pension about it.      can only assure you what has been said about
             I
                 I
this friend of mine, but cannot say whether what said justified

or not. But        feel very happy about the matter. There                       one

thing about us men of science, and that       no one who has the

greatest prejudice against science can venture to say that we ever

endeavour to conceal each other's mistakes. And, therefore, rest

in the most entire and complete confidence that this should happen
                                               it if
to be blunder of mine, some day or other                     will be carefully
   a

exposed by somebody. But pray let me remind you whether all

this story about Bathybius be right or wrong, makes not the slightest

difference to the general argument of the remarkable address put
before you to-night. All the statements your President has made

are just as true, as profoundly true, as  if  this little eccentric Bathy

bius did not exist at alL

                                        LETTERS                                             7

     Several letters of miscellaneous interest may be quoted.

      The  :f--ollowing          acknowledges the receipt                     of Essays in
Romance

                                        4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,
                                                              January 1879.

in    My dear     Skelton        --Being the           most procrastinating letter-writer

     existence,  I thought,       or pretended          Ito think, when received your

Essays in Romance that it would not be decent to thank you until

I had read the book. And when I had done myself that pleasure,

II further pretended to think that it would be much better to wait

till could send you my Hume book, which, as it contains a bio

graphy, is the nearest approach to a work of fiction of which I have

yet  been  "guHiultym. e  " was              I

     The                         sent,  and            hope  reached  you a week  ago, and

as my conscience just now inquired in a very sneering and unpleasant

I Itone whether had any further pretence for not writing on hand,
Ithought might as well stop her mouth at once.
     IYou will see oddly enough that
                                                             have answered your question

about dreams in a sort of way on page 96. 1                                       shall be

    IYou will get nothing but praise for your book, and
vilipended for mine. Is that fact, or is it not an evidence of a

special Providence and Divine Government ?
     IPray remember me very kindly to Mrs. Skelton.
                                                                                  hope your

interrupted  --visEitvewr ilylouyrest   become a fact.       We have a clean bill of
health now.                            very faithfully,
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

                                 Scottish University Commission,                  31 Queen
                                         Street, Edinburgh, April 2,               1879.

     My dear Skelton --I shall be delighted to dine with you on

Wednesday,       astnadrtetda.ke--pEavret rinyoaunrys  discussion either moral or immoral
that may be
                                                       very  faithfully,          Huxley.
                                                                          T.
                                                                              H.

                                                                                           March 15, 1879.

    My dear Mrs. Tyndall--Your hearty letter is as good as a
bottle of the best sunshine. Yes, I will lunch with you on Friday

with pleasure, and Jess proposes to attend on the occasion. . . .
Her husband is in Gloucester,            and                                      The absurd
                                        back           so    doesn't  count.
creature declares she must go                          to    him on   Saturday    -- stuff and

sentiment. She has only been here six or seven weeks. There is

nothing said in Scripture about a wife cleaving to her husband !--

With all our loves, ever yours very sincerely,                        T. H. Huxley.

           1 Cp. Essays in Romance, p. 329 ; Huxley's Hume, p. 96.

8               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, i

      The next is to his son, then at St. Andrews University,
on winning a scholarship tenable at Oxford.

                                    South Kensington, April 21, 1879.

      IMy dear Boy -- I was very glad to get your good news this
morning, and need not tell you whether M                           was pleased or

not.

      But  the  thliegh"t  Goufthnraietu"re--adnodth    not  inform us of the value and
duration   of                                         from   a low and material point of
Ivisiew"
            should like    to be    informed           on that  subject. However, this
        mere matter of      detail  " as the          Irishman  said when he was asked

how he had killed his landlord. The pleasure to us is that you have

made good use of your opportunities, and finished this first stage of

your journey so creditably.

    I am about to write to the Master of Balliol for advice as to
                                In the
your future proceedings.   light heart.  meanwhile, go in for      the enjoyment
of your holiday with a                      You have earned
                                                                   it. -- Ever your
                                                                   T. H. Huxley.
loving father,

        The following, to Mrs. Clifford, was called forth by a

hitch in respect to the grant to her                         of a  Civil List pension

after the death of her husband :--

                                                             4  Marlborough Place,
                                                                   July 19, 1879.

    My dear Lucy -- I am just off to Gloucester to fetch M
back, and I shall have a long talk with that sage little woman over

your letter.
I Iof
   wIhnattheyomu easnawyhilveerykeesptroqnugileyt--asnod   do nothing.        feel the  force
                                                          strongly, in fact,   that     must
morally ice myself and get my judgment clear and cool before I

Iadvise you what is to be done.                                    For the present
         am very sorry to hear you have been so ill.

dismiss the matter from your thoughts and give your mind to getting
better. Leave it all to be turned over in the mind of that cold
-blooded, worldly, cynical old fellow, who signs himself -- Your affec

tionate                                                                       Pater.

      The last is to Mr. Edward Clodd, on receiving his book
Jesus of Nazareth.

                                       4 Marlborough Place. Abbey Road, N.W.,

                                                                                    Dec. 21, 1879.

    My dear Mr. Clodd -- I have been spending all this Sunday

afternoon over the book you have been kind enough to send me,

1879 LETTERS                                                                                 9

and being a swift reader, I have travelled honestly from cover to

cover.

    It is the book I have been longing to see ; in spirit, matter and

form it appears to me to be exactly what people like myself have

been wanting. For though for the last quarter of a century I have

Idone all that lay in my power to oppose and destroy the idolatrous
accretions of Judaism  and   Christianity, have            never had      t"hethsrloigwhtethste
sympathy with those    who,                               say, would
child away along with   the    as  t"h--e aGnedrmwahnesn  I was a member of the
                       I     bath

London School Board    of  fomugyhtLibfeorratlhefrrieetnednsti--on whoof  the Bible, to      the
great scandal of some                                                      can't make        out
to this day whether I was a hypocrite, or simply a fool on that

occasion.

      But my meaning was that the mass of the people                      tsohotuhledmn--ot   be
deprived of the one great literature which is open                                           not

shut out    from the perception  --ofnotht eierxcreluladteidonsfrowmithsutchhe  whole past
history    of civilised mankind                                                 a view of

Judaism and Jesus of Nazareth as that which at last you have

given us.
    I cannot doubt
                     that your   work will have           waogrdre.Ta--.t HsIu.accmHesusyxolnueorsyt .ovenrlyy
in the grosser, but  the better   sense of the

faithfully,

     The winter of 1879-80 was memorable for its prolonged
spell of cold weather. One result of this may be traced in

a New Year's letter from Huxley to his eldest daughter.

" I have had a capital holiday -- mostly in bed -- but I don't

feel so grateful for it as I might do." To be forced to avoid

the many interruptions and distractions of his life in London,

which claimed the greater part of his time, he would regard

"Ifas an unmixed blessing ; as he once said feelingly to Pro
fessor Marsh,        I could only break my leg, what a lot of
scientific work I could do ! " But he was less grateful for

having entire inaction forced upon him.

However, he was soon about again, and wrote as follows

in answer to a letter from Sir Thomas (afterwards Lord)
Farrer, which called his attention, as an old Fishery Com

missioner, to a recent report on the sea-fisheries.

                                                                    4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                            Jan. 9, 1880.

    My dear Farrer -- I shall be delighted to take a dive into the

unfathomable depths of official folly ; but your promised document

has not reached me.

10                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                               CHAP. I

    Your astonishment at the tenacity of life of fallacies, permit me

to say, is shockingly unphysiological. They, like other low organisms,

are independent of brains, and only wriggle the more, the more they

are smitten on the place where the brains ought to be -- I don't know
B., but I am convinced that A. has nothing but a spinal cord,

devoid of any cerebral development. Would Mr. Cross give him

up for purposes   of experiment ?     eLfifnegcet.n--aEnvder  you might perhaps be
got to join in a  memorial to that
                                                               yoTu.rsH.veHryuxfaliethyf.ully,

    A fresh chapter of research, the results of which he now

began to give to the public, was the history of the Dog. On

April 6  and 1 3 he    lectured at    the Royal Institution    "On Dogs
          Problems     connected                              relation to
and the                               with them " -- their

other animals, and the problem of the origin of the domestic

dog, and the dog-like animals in general. As so often before,

these lectures were the outcome of the careful preparation

of a course of instruction for his students. The dog had

been selected as one of the types of mammalian structure

upon which laboratory work was to be done. Huxley's own

dissections had led him on to a complete survey of the

genus, both      wild  and    domestic.  As he writes to Darwin
on May 1 o
             :  --

I Iabout                                                      focrou" ldDatrewlilniysomuusal"l
    wish it were not   such a long       story   that
     the dogs. They    will make out     such   a case

as never was. From the South American dogs at the bottom (C.

vetulus, cancrivorus,  etc.)  to the  wolves at the           teoapc, hth"ersepeicsieas  regular
gradual progression,    the   range   of variation of                                    " over

lapping the ranges of those below and above. Moreover, as to the
Idomestic dogs, think I can prove that the small dogs are modified
Ijackals, and the big dogs ditto wolves.
                                                have been getting capital

material from India, and working the whole affair out on the basis of

measurements of skulls and teeth.

      However, my paper for the Zoological Society is finished, and

I hope soon to send you a copy of it. . . .

      Unfortunately he never found time to complete his
work for final publication in book form, and the rough, un
finished notes are all that remain of his work, beyond two
monographs " On the Epipubis in the Dog and Fox " (Proc.

Roy. Soc. xxx. 162-63), and "On the Cranial and Dental
Characters of the Canidae " (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1880, pp. 238-

288).

i88o DOGS AND THEIR HISTORY                                                                11

      The following letters deal with the collection of speci

mens for examination :--

                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                        Jan. 17, 1880.

I My dear        Flower -- I   happened           to  get hold of two foxes this
                               his vixen        wife  ; and among other things,
week -- a fine   dog fox and

   have   been   ldooogksinhgasupalwCaoywspe"r'sgongelanadgsin, '  the supposed absence of
which    in the
                                                                   me." Moreover, I have

found them (or their representatives) in the shape of two small
Ifsacs, which open by conspicuous apertures into the urethra im
mediately behind the bulb.                      your Icticyon was a male, I commend

this point to your notice.

Iff"orMatIhtneeuma"l.,--"mabrusyutoputiahleha"evxefiisbtnreoon-tccaearltrieolaafgdewysh, ibcehwguhbnilacshptohIemhmaeavrceseramhteaevnethiiomdne,endideodi.nlomokyI

found them again at once in both Mr. and Mrs. Vulpes. You spot

them immediately by the pectineus which is attached to them.

      The dog-fox's  caecum    igsenseoradifofef retnhtemf.ro--m Evtheer   vixen's   that  Gray
would have made      distinct                                               yours   very   faith
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.
fully,

                                                4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                               May 2, 1880.

    My dear Fayrer -- I am greatly obliged for the skulls, and I

hope you will offer my best thanks to your son for the trouble he

has  taken   "  infoxge"ttiisngesptheecmia.lly
     The
                                                interesting because  it    is not   a fox, by

any manner of means, but a big jackal with some interesting points

of approximation towards the cuons.                                                        Can

    I do not see any locality given along with the specimens.

you supply it ?
    I
        have got together      some very curious                   etvhiede"ncfeox  of the wider
range   of variability of the   Indian jackal, and                                  " which your
son has sent is the most extreme form in one direction I have met

with.

    II wish could get some examples from the Bombay and Madras

IPresidencies    and from      Ceylon,          asfromwellBeansgafl.ro--m    Central   India.
                  have seen     yet are                                    Ever yours     very
Almost all                                                           T. H. Huxley.

faithfully,

      Between the two lectures on the Dog, mentioned above,ii.

on April 9, Huxley delivered a Friday evening discourse, at
the same place, " On the Coming of Age of the Origin of
Species" (Coll. Ess. 227). Reviewing the history of the
theory of evolution in the twenty-one years that had elapsed

12  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  CHAP. I

since the Origin of   Species   first saw the light in         1859, he
did not merely dwell  on the   immense influence the          " Origin "
had exercised upon every field of biological inquiry. " Mere

insanities and inanities have before now swollen to portentous
size in the course of twenty years." " History warns us that

it is the customary fate of new truths to begin as heresies,

and to end as superstitions." There was actual danger lest
a new generation should " accept the main doctrines of the

Origin of Species with as little reflection, and it may be
with as little justification, as so many of our contemporaries,

years ago, rejected them."

      So dire a consummation, he declared, must be prevented
by unflinching criticism, the essence of the scientific spirit,
" for the scientific spirit is of more value than its products,

and irrationally held truths may be more harmful than

reasoned errors."

    What, then, were the facts which justified so great a

change as had taken place, which had removed some of the

most important qualifications under which he himself had

accepted the theory ?       He proceeded to enumerate the
" crushing accumulation of evidence " during this period,

which had proved the imperfection of the geological record ;

had filled up enormous gaps, such as those between birds

and reptiles, vertebrates and invertebrates, flowering and
flowerless plants, or the lowest forms of animal and plant

life. More : paleontology alone has effected so much --

the fact that evolution has taken place is so irresistibly

forced upon the mind by the study of the Tertiary mam
malia brought to light since 1859, that " if the doctrine of

evolution had not existed, paleontologists must have in

vented it." He further developed the subject by reading
before the Zoological Society a paper " On the Application

of the Laws of Evolution to the Arrangement of the
Vertebrata, and more particularly of the Mammalia " {Proc.
                    othn6e4M9"a-6Cy6o2m1).oing:--Ionf
Z. S. 1880, pp.                                        reply  to Darwin's letter
thanking him for                                       Age "  {Life and Letters,
iii. 24), he wrote

    My dear Darwin --You are the cheeriest letter-writer      I know,

and always help a man to think the best of his doings.

1880             COMING OF AGE OF THE « ORIGIN"                                     13

" II hope you do not imagine because                  had nothing to say about
Natural Selection," that I am at all weak of faith on that article.
IOn the contrary,
                    live in hope that as palaeontologists work more
and more in the manner of that "second Daniel come to judg

ment," that wise young man M. Filhal, we shall arrive at a crushing
accumulation of evidence in that direction also. But the first

thing seems to me to be to drive the fact of evolution into people's

Iheads ; when that is once safe, the rest will come easy.

         hear that ce cher X. is yelping about again ; but in spite of

Iyour provocative messages (which Rachel retailed with great glee),
   am not going to attack him nor anybody else.

      Another popular lecture on a zoological subject was that

of July 1 on " Cuttlefish and Squids," the last of the " Davis "

lectures given by him at the Zoological Gardens.

      More important were two other essays delivered this year.
The " Method of Zadig " (Coll. Ess. iv. 1 ), an address at the
Working Men's College, takes for its text Voltaire's story of

the philosopher at the Oriental court, who, by taking note

of trivial indications, obtains a perilous knowledge of things,

which his neighbours ascribe either to thievery or magic.
This introduces a discourse on the identity of the methods of

science and of the judgments of common life, a fact which,

twenty-six years before, he had briefly stated in the words,
" Science is nothing but trained and organised common

sense" (Coll. Ess.  "iiSi.ci4e5n)c. e  and  Culture "  (Coll.           Ess.  iii.  1 34),
     The other is

which was delivered on October 1, as the opening address of

the Josiah Mason College at Birmingham, and gave its name
to a volume of essays published in the following year. Here

was a great school founded by a successful ironworker, which

was designed to give an education at once practical and
liberal, such as the experience of its founder approved,

to    young   "  mlietenrawryhotramineinangt--tio.e.  embark upon       practical life.
      " mere                                          in the classical
A                                                                        languages --

was excluded, but not so the study of English literature and

modern languages. The greatest stress was laid on training

in the scientific theory and practice on which depend the
future of the great manufactures of the north.

     The question dealt with in this address is whether such
an education can give the culture demanded of an educated

man to-day. The answer is emphatically Yes. English

                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, i

literature is a field of culture second to none, and for solely

literary purposes, a thorough knowledge of                              it,  backed by

some other modern language, will amply suffice. Combined

with this, knowledge of modern science, its principles and
            a

results, which have so profoundly modified society and have
created modern civilisation, will give a " criticism of life," as

Matthew Arnold defined culture, unattainable by any form of
education which neglects it. In short, although the " culture "

of former periods might be purely literary, that of to-day

must be based, to a great extent, upon natural science.

This autumn several letters passed between him and

Darwin. The latter, contrary to his usual custom, wrote                                    aa

letter to Nature, in reply to an unfair attack which had

been made upon evolution by Sir Wyville Thomson in his

Introduction to The Voyage of the Challenger (see Darwin,
Life and Letters, iii. 242), and asked Huxley to look over
the concluding sentences of the letter, and to decide whether
they should go with the rest to the printer or not. " My
                         p(aNgoevs.--5)f,or"willknnoowt
request,"   he writes                I                          cost you much  trouble
            read two                                             that you can   decide
-- i.e. to

at once." Huxley struck them out, replying on the 14th,
" Your pinned-on paragraph was so good that,
                                                                             if         had
                                                                                I

written myself, should have been unable to refrain from
           it it     I
sending on to the printer. But                it                is  much easier to be
                        a

                            it

                               is I
virtuous on other people's account and though Thomson
                                            it ;
deserved    if I itand more,         thought   is it            would be better to
refrain. If say savage thing,                                   only pretty Fanny's
                                                                    I'
way but you do,                    not likely to be forgotten."
'
The rest of this correspondence has to do with plan of;;
                                                                             1a
Darwin's, generous as ever, to obtain a Civil List pension for                 4

the veteran naturalist, Wallace, whose magnificent work for                          :

science had brought him but little material return. He

wrote to consult Huxley as to what steps had best be
                                                                                      --
taken the latter replied in the letter of November

      The  papers in re  mWyal"lamceighht,avaemitayr,rivaendd,  and lose no time in
assuring   you that all                                         authority," as Essex said

when that sneak Bacon asked him for favour, shall be exercised as
                                        a

you wish.

On December 11 he sends Darwin the draft of

iSSo OPTIMISM AND PESSIMISM

memorial on the subject, and on the 28th suggests that the

best way of moving the official world would be for Darwin

himself to send the memorial, with a note of his own, to

Mr. Gladstone, who was    then      Prime  Minister  and        First Lord

of the Treasury :--

      Mr. G. can do a thing gracefully when he is so minded, and

Iunless greatly mistake, he will be so minded if you write to him.

      The  result  was all that  could be hoped.      On January 7
Darwin     writes                ! hurrah ! read
                   !--" Hurrah                        the enclosed.

Was it not extraordinarily kind of Mr. Gladstone to write

himself at the present time ? . . . I have written to Wallace.

He owes much to you.                Had it not been for your
advice and assistance, I should never have had courage to

go on."

      The rest of the letter to Darwin of Dec. 28 is character

Ifistic of his own view of life.
                                    He was no pessimist any

more than he was a professed optimist.               the vast amount

of inevitable suffering precluded the one view, the gratuitous

pleasures, so to speak, of life, preclude the other. Life
properly lived is worth living, and would be even if a

malevolent fate had decreed that one should suffer, say, the

pangs of toothache two hours out of every twenty-four.          So

he writes :--

     We have had all the chicks (and the husbands of such as
are therewith provided) round the Christmas table once more, and a

Ipleasant sight they were, though say it that shouldn't. Only the

grand-daughter left out, the young woman not having reached the

age when change and society are valuable.                       I like them,

    I don't know what you think about anniversaries.
being always minded to drink my cup of life to the bottom, and

take  my   chance of the    sweets  and bitters.     Infinite   benevolence
need  not                 pain and  sorrow at all               malevolence
           have invented                           -- infinite

would very easily have deprived us of the large measure of content

and happiness that falls to our lot. After all, Butler's Analogy is

unassailable, and there is nothing in theological dogmas more con

tradictory to our moral sense, than is to be found in the facts of

Nature. From which, however, the Bishop's conclusion that the

dogmas are true doesn't follow.

      The following is to his Edinburgh friend Dr. Skelton,

16                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, i

whose appreciation of his frequent companionship had found
outspoken expression in the pages of The Crookit Meg.

                                                       4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                                            Nov. 14, 1880.

    My dear Skelton -- When the Crooked Meg reached me I

made up my mind that it would be a shame to send the empty

acknowledgment which I give (or don't give) for most books that

reach me.

    IBut am over head and ears in work -- time utterly wasted in

mere knowledge getting and giving -- and for six weeks not an hour

for real edification with a wholesome story.
     But this Sunday afternoon being, by the blessing of God, as

Ibeastly a November day as you shall see, have atteade d to my

spiritual side and been visited by a blessing in the shape of some

very pretty and unexpected words anent mysel'.*

    In truth, it is right excellent story, though, being distinctly in
love with Eppie, I can only wonder how you had the heart to treat
               ill. A                                                                  -- one
h"ewr isesoly          girl like  that should                   have had two husbands
               ranged  for show   " and t'other
                                                                de par amours.

      Don't    ruin me  with Mrs.  hSerk.e--ltoEnvebry            repeating    this, but please
remember       me very  kindly to                               yours very     faithfully,

                                                                               T. H. Huxley.

      The following letter to Tyndall was called forth by an
incident in connection with the starting of the Nineteenth

Century. Huxley had promised to help the editor by look
ing over the proofs of a monthly article on contemporary

science. But his advertised position as merely adviser in

this to the editor was overlooked by some who resented
what they supposed to be his assumption of the role of

critic in general to his fellow -workers in science. At a
meeting of the x Club, Tyndall made a jesting allusion

     1 The passage referred to stands on p. 72 of The Crookit Meg, and describes
the village naturalist and philosopher, Adam Meldrum, "who in his working
hours cobbled old boats, and knew by heart the plays of Shakespeare and the
IPseu"doFdoorxiatheEpreidset miticwa illofbeSiernTohuogmh atso  Browne."
old boats was--was -- (may take the                                            long, gaunt, bony cobbler of
                                                                add that this  Professor ?) a village Huxley
                                                                 liberty, Mr.

of the year One. The colourless brilliancy of the great teacher's style, the easy
facility with which the drop of light forms itself into a perfect sphere as it falls
from his pen, belong indeed to a consummate master of the art of expression,
which Adam of course was not ; but the mental lucidity, justice, and balance, as

well as the reserve of power, and the Shakespearian gaiety of touch, which made

the old man one of the most delightful companions in the world, were essentially

Huxleian."

                                              Engrarvtd ty O. Lacpur.

            T. H. Huxley

From a Photograph by H. Huxley.


iS8o LETTERS                                                                            17

to this ; Huxley, however, thought the mere suggestion too

grave for a joke, and replied with all seriousness to clear

himself from the  possibility of such                     :m--isconception.             And
the same evening  he wrote to Tyndall

                                          Athen/Eum Club, Pall Mall, S.W.,

                                                                 Dec. 2, 1880.

My dear Tyndall-- I must tell you the ins and outs of this
                                          I was anxious to help Knowles
Nineteenth Century business.

when he started the journal, and at his earnest and pressing request
I agreed to do what I have done. But
                                                          being quite aware of the
misinterpretation to which I should be                    liable if my name " sans
                                                           insisted upon the exact
Iphrase " were attached to the article,

words which you will find at the head of it ; and which seemed,

and still seem to me, to define my position as a mere adviser of the

editor.

    IMoreover, by diligently excluding any expression of opinion on

the part of the writers of the compilation, thought that nobody

could possibly suspect me of assuming the position of an authority

even on the subjects with which I may be supposed to be acquainted,
let alone those such as physics and chemistry, of which I know no

more than anyone of the public may know.

Therefore your remarks came upon me to-night with the sort of

painful surprise which a man feels who is accused of the particular

s"inrouosfedwhmicyhcohrerupftlaiottner"s   himself he is  especially         not guilty, and
                                          as the Scotch   have it.          But there is no

Ineed to say anything about that, for you were generous and good as

  have always found you. Only I pray you, if hereafter it strikes

you that any doing of mine should be altered or amended, tell me
              mporrievataelyv,eryantdhanIkfpurlomonies.e--yEouvera
yourself and                                                         very   patient  listener,
and what is                                                         yours,

                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

Tyndall replied with no less frankness, thanking him for

the friendly promptitude of his letter, and explaining that

he had meant to speak privately on the matter, but had

been forestalled by the subject coming up when it did.

And he wound up by declaring that it would be too absurd
to admit the power of such an occasion " to put even a

momentary strain upon the cable which has held us together

for nine and twenty years."                                                             A

     At the very end of the year, George Eliot died.

proposal was immediately set on foot to inter her remains
VOL. II
                                                                                     C

i8  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        chap, i

in Westminster Abbey, and various men of letters pressed

the matter on the Dean, who was unwilling to stir without

a very strong and general expression of opinion. To Mr.

Herbert Spencer, who had urged   him to join    in  memorialis
ing the Dean, Huxley replied as
                                 follows :--

                                 4 Marlborough Place,

                                           Dec. 27, 1880.

     My dear Spencer -- Your telegram which reached me on

IFriday evening caused me great perplexity, inasmuch as had just

been talking with Morley, and agreeing with him that the proposal
for a funeral in Westminster Abbey had a very questionable look to

us, who desired nothing so much as that peace and honour should
attend George Eliot to her grave.

     It can hardly be doubted that the proposal will be bitterly

opposed, possibly (as happened in Mill's case with less provocation),
with the raking up of past histories, about which the opinion even

of those who have least the desire or the right to be pharisaical is

strongly divided, and which had better be forgotten.

    IWith respect to putting pressure on the Dean of Westminster,

have to consider that he has some confidence in me, and before

I Iasking him to do something for which he is pretty sure to be
violently assailed, have to ask myself whether  really think it a

right thing for a man in his position to do.

    I INow cannot say do. However much I may lament the cir

cumstance, Westminster Abbey is a Christian Church and not a

Pantheon, and the Dean thereof is officially a Christian priest, and

we ask him to bestow exceptional Christian honours by this burial
in the Abbey. George Eliot is known not only as a great writer,
but as a person whose life and opinions were in notorious antagon
ism to Christian practice in regard to marriage, and Christian

Itheory in regard to dogma. How am I to tell the Dean that

think he ought to read over the body of a person who did not

repent of what the Church considers mortal sin, a service not one
solitary proposition in which she would have accepted for truth

Iwhile she was alive ? How am to urge him to do that which, if
I Iwere in his place, should most emphatically refuse to do ?

     You tell me that Mrs. Cross wished for the funeral in the

Abbey. While I desire to entertain the greatest respect for her
Iwishes, am very sorry to hear it. I do not understand the feeling

which could create such a desire on any personal grounds, save
those of affection, and the natural yearning to be near even in death
to those whom we have loved. And on public grounds the wish is

still less intelligible to me. One cannot eat one's cake and have it
too. Those who elect to be free in thought and deed must not

iS8o DEATH OF GEORGE ELIOT                              i9

hanker after the rewards, if they are to be so called, which the world

offers to those who put up with its fetters.
Thus, however I look at the proposal it seems to me to be a
Iprofound mistake, and can have nothing to do with it.
I shall be deeply grieved if this resolution is ascribed to any
                           which I have set forth
other motives than  those                          at more length than
                    yours  very faithfully,
I intended. --Ever                                 T. H. Huxley.

                   CHAPTER II

                                                  1881

The last ten years had found Huxley gradually involved

more and more in official duties. Now, with the beginning
of 1 88 1, he became yet more deeply engrossed in practical
and administrative work, more completely cut off from his
favourite investigations, by his appointment to an Inspector
ship of Fisheries, in succession to the late Frank Buckland.

It is almost pathetic to note how he snatched at any spare
moments for biological research. No sooner was a long

afternoon's work at the Home Office done, than, as Professor
Howes relates, he would often take a hansom to the labora
tory at South Kensington, and spend a last half-hour at his
dissections before going home.

     The Inspectorship, which was worth £700 a year, he
held in addition to his post at South Kensington, the official
description of which now underwent another change. In
the first place, his official connection with the Survey appears
to have ceased this year, the last report made by him being
in 1 88 1. His name, however, still appeared in connection
with the post of Naturalist until his retirement in 1885,
and it was understood that his services continued to be
available if required. Next, in October of this year, the
Royal School of Mines was incorporated with the newly

established Normal School -- or as it was called in 1 890,

Royal College of Science, and the title of Lecturer on
General Natural History was suppressed, and Huxley
became Professor of Biology and Dean of the College at a
salary of ^800, for. it was arranged on his appointment to
the Inspectorship, that he should not receive the salary

188 1 APPOINTED FISHERY INSPECTOR                                    21

attached to the post of Dean. Thus the Treasury saved

£200 a year.

As Professor of Biology, he was under the Lord Presi

dent of the Council ; as Inspector of Fisheries, under the

Board of Trade ; hence some time passed in arranging

the claims of the two departments before the appointment

was officially made    known,  as      may  be  gathered   from the

following --letters :

               To Sir John Donnelly

                                            4 Marlborough Place,

                                                     Dec. 27, 1880.

     My dear Donnelly -- I tried hard to have a bad cold last
night, and though I blocked him with quinine I think I may as well

give myself the benefit of the Bank Holiday and keep the house

to-day.                                                    I wrote to
      There is a chance of your getting early salmon yet.

decline the post on Friday, but on Saturday evening the Home Sec

retary sent a note asking to see me yesterday. As he had re-opened

the question of course I felt justified in stating all the pros and cons
of the case as personal to myself and my rather complicated official
position. . . . He entered into the affair with a warmth and readiness

which very agreeably surprised me, and he proposes making such

arrangements as will not oblige me to have anything to do with the

Iweirs

would
or the actual    inspection.   Under these circumstances the   post
                              it along with the other things.
 be lovely--   if can hold                                     And

of his own motion the Home Secretary is going to write to Lord

IfSpencer about it to see if he cannot carry the whole thing through.
        this could be managed I could get great things done in the

matter of fish culture and fish diseases at South Kensington, if poor

dear X.'s rattle trappery could be turned to proper account, with

out in any way interfering with the work of the School.    win -- the
     At any rate, my book stands not to lose, and may

innocence of the dove is not always divorced from the wisdom of the
          [Sketch of the " Sarpent."]
sarpent.

                        To LorD Farrer

                                                                     4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                            Jan. 18, 1881.

     My dear Farrer -- I have waited a day or two before thanking
you for your very kind letter, in the hope that I might be able to

speak as one knowing where he is.

22            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  CHAP. II

    IBut as I am still, in an official sense, nowhere,        will not delay

Iany longer.

        had never thought of the post, but the Home Secretary offered

it to me in a very kind and considerate manner, and after some
Ihesitation
              accepted      it.   But some adjustment had to be made

between my master, the Lord President, and the Treasury and
                                                                                      ;
although everybody seems disposed to be very good to me, the                               1

business      not yet    finally   settled.     Whence the newspapers    get their
information       don't   know                   always wrong in these
                                  -- but                                mwaotrtkers--.
      As you
    I                             a
             is                      it
            I                             is
                 I
              know have had good apprenticeship to the

and       hope to  be of    some use of the few innocent;               pleasures
left to  men past  middle                                               down the
                            life-- the jamming common-sense

throats of fools perhaps the keenest.is                     -- Ever
      May we do some joint business in
                                                that  way  !         yours            very

faithfully,                                                T. H. Huxley.

                        To his Eldest SonII
                            I
                                                                                                            Feb. 14, 1881.is
                                 I
         have entered upon my new duties as Fishery Inspector, but you
are not to expect salmon to be much cheaper just yet.

     My colleague and have rooms at the Home Office, and find
there more occupation than expected, but no serious labour.

      Every now and then shall have to spend a few days in the
country, holding inquiries, and as salmon rivers are all in picturesque
parts of the country, shall not object to that part of the business.
                         I                      ;

                                                           I

                                                                      I
      The duties of the new office were partly scientific, partly

administrative. On the one hand, the natural history and
diseases of fish had to be investigated on the other, regula
tions had to be carried out, weirs and salmon passes

approved, disputes settled, reports written.                            find for

instance, that apart from the work in London, visits of

inspection in all parts of the country took up twenty-eight

days between March and September this year.

    Sir Spencer Walpole, who was his colleague for some

years, has kindly given me an account of their work

together.

      Early in 1881, Sir William Harcourt appointed Professor Huxley
one of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Fisheries. The office had

become vacant through the untimely death, in the preceding Decem
ber, of the late Mr. Frank Buckland. Under an Act, passed twenty

    He had already served on two Fishery Commissions, 1862 and 1864-5.

iS8i WORK AS FISHERY INSPECTOR                          23

years before, the charge of the English Salmon Fisheries had been

placed under the Home Office, and the Secretary of State had been

authorised to appoint two Inspectors to aid him in administering the

law. The functions of the Home Office and of the Inspectors were

originally simple, but they had been enlarged by an Act passed in

1873, which conferred on local conservators elaborate powers of

making bye-laws for the development and preservation of the

Fisheries. These bye-laws required the approval of the Secretary

of State, who was necessarily dependent on the advice of his

Inspectors in either allowing or disallowing them.
      In addition
--  by virtue of   thtoeitrheponsiotmionin--al tdhuetiaedsviosefrstheofInthsepeGctoovresr,ntmheeyntbeocnamaell

questions connected with the Sea Fisheries of Great Britain. These

fisheries are nominally under the Board of Trade, but, as this Board

at that time had no machinery at its disposal for the purpose, it

naturally relied on the advice of the Home Office Inspectors in all

questions of difficulty, on which their experience enabled them to

speak with authority.
     For duties such as these, which have been thus briefly described,

Professor Huxley had obvious qualifications. On all subjects

relating to the Natural History of Fish he spoke with decisive

authority. But, in addition to his scientific attainments, from 1863
to 1 865 he had been a member of the Commission which had con
ducted an elaborate investigation into the condition of the Fisheries

otpiofolntichyeof--UanreRitmeepadionrsKt,intwhgedhoicamhbl,--esatnnoadtnwdhiatmhdsottsaatnkedenxinhgaauslrateirvcgeeentsdhocachrueamngineenstthiwenhpliarcewhpaahrnaads

ever been laid before Parliament on the subject.

    This protracted investigation had convinced Professor Huxley

that the supply of fish in the deep sea was practically inexhaustible ;

and that, however much it might be necessary to enforce the police
of the seas by protecting particular classes of sea fishermen from

injury done to their instruments by the operations of other classes,
the primary duty of the legislature was to develop sea fishing, and

not to place restrictions on sea fishermen for any fears of an ex

haustion of fish.

    His scientific training, moreover, made him ridicule the modern

notion that it was possible to stock the sea by artificial methods.

He wrote to  "mYeo, uwhmenay  the Fisheries Exhibition  of 1883 was in con
templation,                    have seen that we have   a new Fish Culture

Society. C         talked gravely about our stocking the North Sea
with cod ! After that I suppose we shall take up herrings : and I mean

to propose whales, which, as all the world knows, are terribly over
fished ! " And after the exhibition was over he wrote to me again,

"Iwith reference to a report which the Commission had asked me to
draw up :    have just finished reading your report, which has given

24               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                       CHAP. II

...me a world of satisfaction.                                    I am particularly glad that you

have put in a word of warning to the fish culturists." *
     He was not, however, equally certain that particular areas of

Sea Shore might not be exhausted by our fishing. He extended in
1883 an order which Mr. Buckland and I had made in 1879 for
restricting the taking of crabs and lobsters                      "onI        the coast of Norfolk,
and he wrote to me on that occasion :                                         was at Cromer and

Sheringham last week, holding an enquiry for the Board of Trade

about the working of your order of 1879. According to all accounts,
the crabs have multiplied threefold in 1881 and 1882. Whether

this is post hoc or propter hoc is more than I should like to say.

IBut at any rate, this is a very good prima facie case for continuing

the order, and shall report accordingly. Anyhow, the conditions

are very favourable for a long-continued experiment in the effects

of regulation, and, ten years hence, there will be some means of

judging of the value of these restrictions."

    If,

                                     :
    however, Professor Huxley was strongly opposed to un

necessary interference with the labours of sea fishermen, he was well

aware of the necessity of protecting                               migratory        fish  --likine    salmon,
against over-fishing and his reports for                          1882 and        1883              which he

gave elaborate    accounts                of  the  results        of legislation  on the Tyne and
on the Severn                           that   he   keenly         appreciated    the necessity of
                 -- show

regulating the Salmon Fisheries.
     It so happened that at the
                                                   time of his appointment,               many of our
important rivers were visited                      by " Saprolegnia ferax,"               the fungoid

growth which became popularly known as Salmon Disease. Professor

Huxley gave much time to the study of the conditions under which

the fungus flourished he devoted much space in his earlier reports
                 :
                              :

                                  I
                                                    a
to the subject and he read                                        paper upon      at remarkable
                                                                  I
meeting of the Royal Society in the summer of 188 1. He took                                                    a
                                                                             a
                                                                                it
                                                                                              a

                                                                                                             :
keen interest    in these               1i8n8ve1s,tig"atTiohnes,    and he wrote to me from North
Wales, at the                                                     salmon brought to me here have
                 end of

not been so badly diseased as could have wished, and the fungus

dies so rapidly out of the water that only one specimen furnished me

with materials in lively condition. These have cultivated and to

my great satisfaction have got some flies infected. With nine precious

muscoid corpses, more or less ornamented with lovely fur trimming

of Saprolegnia,  shall return to London to-morrow, and shall be
    a

          I
                 I
ready in short time, hope, to furnish Salmon Disease wholesale,

retail, or for exportation."

    When was asked to write the report on this Commission,                                said that
is
      1

             it

             I
                  is if

                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                   :

                                                                                      II
would do so Sir E. Birkbeck, its chairman, and Professor Huxley, both met
me to discuss the points to be noticed. The meeting duly took place and
opened by asking what was the chief lesson to be drawn from the exhibition?
"Well," said Professor Huxley, "the chief lesson to be drawn from the exhibition

that London in want of some open air amusement on summer evenings."

188i WORK AS FISHERY INSPECTOR                                        25

In carrying out the duties of our office, Professor Huxley and I

were necessarily thrown into very close communication. There were

few days in which we did not pass some time in each other's company :

there were many weeks in which we travelled together through the
Iriver basins of this country.   think that I am justified in saying

that official intercourse ripened into warm personal friendship, and

that, for the many months in which we served together, we lived on

terms of intimacy which are rare even among colleagues or even

among friends.

     It is needless to say that, as a companion, Professor Huxley

was the most delightful of men. Those who have met him in
society, or enjoyed the hospitality of his house, must have been con

scious of the singular charm of a conversation, which was founded

on knowledge, enlarged by memory, and brightened by humour.

But, admirable as he was in society, no one could have realised the

full charm of his company who had not conversed with him alone.
He had the rare art of placing men, whose knowledge and intellect

were inferior to his own, at their ease. He knew how to draw out

all that was best in the companion who suited him ; and he had

equal pleasure in giving and receiving. Our conversation ranged
over every subject. We discussed together the grave problems of man

and his destiny ; we disputed on the minor complications of modern

politics ; we criticised one another's literary judgments ; and we

laughed over the stories which we told one another, and of which

Professor Huxley had an inexhaustible fund.

     In conversation Professor Huxley displayed the quality which

distinguished him both as a writer and a public speaker. He

invariably used the right words in the right        sense.   reTsphoonsseiblwe h--o aforer
                                                    jointly
jointly responsible --as he and I were often

some written document, have exceptional opportunities of observing

this quality. Professor Huxley could always put his finger on a
                                                                      --wIthwicahs
wrong word, and he       always  instinctively chose the  right one.
                         much    rarer one than people       imagine
this qualification -- a

made Professor Huxley's essays clear to the meanest understanding,
and which made him, in my judgment, the greatest master of prose of

his time. The same quality was equally observable in his spoken

speech. I happened to be present at the anniversary dinner of the

Royal Society, at which Professor Huxley made his last speech.
And, as he gave an admirable account of the share which he had
Itaken in defending Mr. Darwin against his critics,
                                                             overheard
the present Prime Minister * say, " What a beautiful speaker he is."

In 1882, the duties of another appointment forced me to resign
the Inspectorship, which I had held for so long : and thence

forward my residence in the Isle of Man gave me fewer opportuni

ties of seeing Professor Huxley : our friendship, however, remained

                                 1 Lord Salisbury.

26             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                              chap, i1

unbroken ; and occasional visits to London gave me many
opportunities of renewing it. He retained his own appointment as

Inspector for more than three years after my resignation. He
served, during the closing months of his officialship, on a Royal

Commission on trawling, over which the late Lord Dalhousie

presided. But his health broke down before the commissioners

issued their report, and he was ordered abroad. It so happened
that in the spring of 1885 I was staying at Florence, when Professor
and Mrs. Huxley passed through it on their way home. He had

at that time seen none of his old friends, and was only slowly

regaining strength. After his severe illness Mrs. Huxley encouraged

me to take him out for many short walks, and I did my best to cheer

him in his depressed   cwohnodleit--ionh.appyHelifdeidbenfoorte  then   think  that   he  had
                                                                  him.    He   told  me   that
ten years of --on the

he was about to retire from all his work, and he added, that he had

Inever enjoyed the Inspectorship after had left it. I am happy in

                                        tomethetwdoepyreeassrsionagof,ro"mThwehicohffichee
Ibelieving that

was suffering,
                the remark   was due
               for he had   written to

would be quite perfect, if they did not want an annual report.                       can't

Igo in for a disquisition on river basins after the manner of Buckland,
and you have exhausted the other topics.    polished off the Salmon
Disease pretty fully last year, so what the deuce am I to write about?"
    I saw Professor Huxley for the last time on the Christmas day
Ibefore his death.
                       spent some hours with him, with no other com
Ipanions than Mrs. Huxley and my daughter.
                                                                 had never seen him

brighter or happier, and his rich, playful and sympathetic talk vividly

recalled the many brilliant hours which I had passed in his com

pany some twelve or thirteen years before.

    One word more. No one could have known Professor Huxley

intimately without recognising that he delighted in combat. He was

never happier than when he was engaged in argument or controversy,

and he loved to select antagonists worthy of his steel. The first

public enquiry which we held together was attended by a great

nobleman, whom Professor Huxley did not know by sight, but who

rose at the commencement of our proceedings to offer some sugges

tions. Professor Huxley directed him to sit down, and not interrupt
Ithe business. I told my colleague in a whisper whom he was
interrupting.     And      was amused, as  "wWe ewhaalkveedbeagwuany           to luncheon
together, by   his quaint   remark to me,                                      very well, we

have sat upon a duke." 1

     1 Of this he wrote home on March 15, 188 1 : "Somebody produced the
Punch yesterday and showed it to me, to the great satisfaction of the Duke of

      , who has attended our two meetings. I nearly had a shindy with him at

starting, but sweetness and light (in my person) carried the day. " This Punch
contained the cartoon of Huxley in nautical costume riding on a salmon ; con
trary to the custom of Punch, it made an unfair hit in appending to his name

the letters £ s. d. Never was any one who deserved the imputation less.

188 1 WORK AS FISHERY INSPECTOR                                                             2;

     If,

              a
                             a

                     I
        however, love of argument and controversy occasionally led

him into hot water, do not think that his polemical tendencies ever

cost him friend. His antagonists must have recognised the fairness

of his methods, and must have been susceptible to the charm of the

man. The high example which he set in controversy, moreover,

was equally  visible in         his ordinary               life.    Of  all the men have ever
known, his   ideas and          his standard               were
                                                                  --on  the whole -- the highest.
                                                                       I
                                                                                     I
He recognised that the fact of his religious views imposed on him the

duty of living the most upright of lives, and am very much of the

opinion of little child, now grown into an accomplished woman,
       I
who, when she was told that Professor Huxley had no hope of futurea

rewards, and no fear of future punishments, emphatically declared                           :

"Then think Professor Huxley the best man have ever known."
                                 is                                     I

       Extracts from his letters home give some further idea of

the kind of work entailed. Thus in March                                and         again   in May

he was in Wales, and writes: --

                                                                  Cromffyratellionptrroch,

                                                                                  May 24.

     Mr. Barrington's very pretty place about five miles from Aber

gavenny, wherein write, may or may not have the name which                                  it
   I
have written on at the top of the page, as                              Welsh however         is I
            it                   it.                                                ;
probably that or something likeis
                                   I                                                    is
                       is                         it
                                                      is
                    I                                    a
                                                                  forgot to enquire.

     We are having the loveliest weather, and yesterday went looking

up weirs with more or less absurd passes up charming valley not

far hence. It just seven o'clock, and we are going to breakfast and
start at eight to fit in with the tides of the Severn. It not exactly

clear where we shall be to-night. . . Now must go to breakfast,
                                                           .

                                                                     I

for    got  up   at      Hsiexr.efoFrdig.u--reWz evoaurse  (a.
     May     29                                              favoured
                 --                                                     by the weather      again,

though              bitter cold under the bright sunshine. We stopped at

Worcester yesterday, and        went to examine some weirs hard by.
                                I

                                                        a
                                                                                  it
IfThis involved three or four miles' country walking, and was all to the
good.       the Inspector business were all of this sort would be all

that fancy painted it. We shall have long sitting to-day. . . . [He
fears to be detained into the night by "over-fluent witnesses."]

      In April he spent several days at Norwich, in connection
with the National Fishery Exhibition held there.

     April 19. --We had gala day yesterday. . . . The exhibition
                                a
                                                                      a

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                      a
of all manner of fish and fishing apparatus was ready, for wonder,

and looked very well. The Prince and Princess arrived, and we

had the usual address           and reply and               march       through.    Afterwards
mighty dejeuner in the          St. Andrew's                             fine old   place looking
                                                           Hall --

2S                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE V                             chap, ii

Iits best.        was just opposite the Princess, and I could not help

looking at her with wonderment. She looked so fresh and girlish.

She came and talked to me afterwards in a very pleasant simple

way.

    Walpole and I went in with our host yesterday afternoon and

started to return on the understanding that he should pick us up a

few miles out. Of course we took the wrong road, and walked all

the way, some eight miles or so. However, it did us good, and

after a champagne lunch we thought we could not do better than

repeat the operation yesterday.
    I feel quite set up by finding that after standing about for hours
I can walk eight miles
                            without any particular  --faktingouew.s  a  Life in the
old dog yet ! Walpole       is a capital companion                      great many

things, and talks well about them, so we get over the ground

pleasantly.  20.  -- There  was  a  long  day of it yesterday        looking over

     April

things in the Exhibition till late in the afternoon, and then a mighty

dinner in St. Andrew's Hall given by a Piscatorial Society of which
                             It was a
                            Of course                     of  five hours with
I Imy host is President.                  weary  sitting  "a  few words," and
                                                 to say
innumerable speeches.                     I had
if can get a copy of the papers will send them to you. I flatter

myself they were words of wisdom, though hardly likely to contribute

to my popularity among the fishermen.

     On the 2 1 st he gave an address on the Herring. To
describe the characteristics of this fish in the Eastern Coun

ties, he says, might seem like carrying coals to Newcastle ;

nevertheless the fisherman's knowledge is not the same as
that of the man of science, and includes none but the vaguest
notions of the ways of life of the fish and the singularities of
its organisation which perplexed biologists. His own study
of the problems connected with the herring had begun nine
teen years before, when he served on the first of his two

Fishery Commissions ; and one of his chief objects in this

address was to insist upon a fact, borne out partly by the
inquiries of the Commission, partly by later investigations in
Europe and America, which it was difficult to make people
appreciate, namely, the impossibility of man's fisheries
affecting the numbers of the herring to any appreciable

extent, a year's catch not amounting to the estimated
number of a single shoal ; while the flatfish and cod fisheries
remove many of the most destructive enemies of the herring.

Those who had not studied the question in this light would

                            SALMON DISEASE                                                                         29

say that " it stands to reason " that vast fisheries must tend to

exterminate the fish ; apropos of which, he made his
well-known remark that in questions of biology " if any one
tells me ' it stands to reason ' that such and such things

must happen, I generally find reason to doubt the safety of

his standing."

This year, also, he began the investigations which com

pleted former inquiries into the subject, and finally elucidated
the nature of the salmon disease. The last link in the chain

of evidence which proved its identity with a fungoid disease

of flies, was not reached until March 1883 ; and on July 3
following he delivered a full account of the disease, its

nature and origin, in an address at the Fisheries Exhibition

in London.

In 1 88 1, then, at the end of December, he went to

North Wales to study on the fresh fish, the nature of the

epidemic of salmon disease which had broken out in the

Conway, in spite of being in such bad health that he was

persuaded to let his younger son come and look after him.

But this was only a passing premonition of the breakdown

which was to come upon him three years after.

One year's work as Inspector was very like another. In

1882, for instance, on January 21, he is at Berwick, "voice
less but jolly " ; in the spring
Exhibition in Edinburgh, and                                         he had to    attend                a          Fisheries

                                                                     writes :--

April 12. -- We have opened our Exhibition, and I have been

Is"taconoAdrispnegriladb1a3yo..u"--t lToohkehianwvgeeaasttheeetrhne  hceorenteisntvsillauinntoilusm--y  back is    broken.
                                                                                                        a regular
                                                                     all I wanted to see of the                      Edinburgh
                                                                                                                    Exhibition,

eaten two heavy dinners, one with Primrose and one with Young,

and want to get home. Walpole and I are dining domestically at

home this evening, having virtuously refused all invitations.

     In June he was in Hampshire; on July 25 he writes
from Tynemouth :--

I reached here about 5 o'clock, and found the bailiff or whatever
they call him of the Board of Conservators, awaiting me with a boat
                                                                                  what they call "The
aPtlamygyroduinspdos"a--l.      So we  went off                      to look at
                            two bays    in which                      the salmon   coming from the sea

rest and disport themselves until a fresh comes down the river and

they find it convenient to ascend. Harbottle bailiff in question is

30               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                  CHAP. II

greatly disturbed at the amount of poaching that goes on in the
playground, and unfolded his griefs to me at length. It was a lovely
Ievening, very calm, and enjoyed my boat expedition.
                                                      To-morrow

there is to be another to see the operations of a steam trawler, which

in all probability I shall not enjoy so much. I shall take a light

breakfast.

    These were the pleasanter parts of the work. The less

pleasant was sitting all day in a crowded court, hearing a

disputed case of fishing rights, or examining witnesses who

stuck firmly to views about fish which had long been

exploded by careful observation.              But on the whole he

enjoyed although took him away from research in other
          :                  it it
departments. This summer, on the death of Professor
            it,
Rolleston, he was sounded on the question whether he

would consent to accept the Linacre Professorship of

MPheyrstoionlog--y at Oxford.             He wrote to the Warden of

                                    is 4  Marlborough Place, June 22, 1881.

    My dear Brodrick -- Many thanks for your letter.  aa    can give

you my reply at once, as my attention has already been called to theI

question you ask and                    that do not see my way to leaving
                 a                        II
London for Oxford. My reasons for arriving at this conclusion are
                        ;
various.  I II   am getting old, and you should have man in full

vigour.       doubt whether the psychical atmosphere of Oxford would

suit me, and still more, whether should suit after life spent in
the absolute freedom of London. And last, but by no means least,
                                              iIf it
for man with five children to launch into the world, the changea
would involve most serious loss of income. No doubt there are

great attractions on the other side and,              had been ten years
                                          ;

younger, should have been sorely tempted to go to Oxford, the
                                                            I I if
University would have had me. But things being as they are, do

not see my way to any other conclusion than that which have

reached.

      The same feeling finds expression in letter to Professora
(afterwards Sir William) Flower, who was also approached
on the same subject, and similarly determined to remainI

in London.

                                                                          July 21, 1881.

    My dear Flower -- am by no means surprised, and except

for the sake of the University, not sorry that you have renounced
the Linacre.

iSSi DEATH OF DEAN STANLEY                                         3i

to   Life is like walking along a  crowded   street -- there  aplawvaeymsenstee--m
    be fewer obstacles to getting  along on
                                             the opposite
and yet, if one crosses over, matters are rarely mended.

     I assure you it is a great comfort to me to think that you will
stay in London and help in keeping things straight in this world of

crookedness.
    I have thought a good deal about
                                             , but it would never do.

No one could value his excellent qualities of all kinds, and real

Igenius in some directions, more than do ; but, in my judgment,

nobody could be less fitted to do the work which ought to be done
                 I mean to give biological science a status in the eyes
in Oxford

of the Dons, and to force them to acknowledge it as a part of general

education. Moreover, his knowledge, vast and minute as it is in

some directions, is very imperfect in others, and the attempt to
qualify himself for the post would take him away from the investiga
tions, which are his delight and for which he is specially fitted. . . .

    I was very much interested in your account of the poor dear
Dean's illness. I called on Thursday morning, meeting Jowett and

Grove at the door, and we went in and heard such an account of his

state that I had hopes he might pull through. We shall not see his

like again.

     The last time I had a long talk with him was about the proposal

to bury George Eliot in the Abbey, and a curious revelation of the
extraordinary catholicity and undaunted courage of the man it was.
He would have done it had it been pressed upon him by a strong

representation.
    II

shall
    see he is    to be buried on Monday, and I       suppose and hope
    have the     opportunity of attending. -- Ever  yours very faithfully,
                                                    T. H. Huxley.

     This letter refers to the death of his old friend Dean

Stanley. The Dean had long kept in touch with the
leaders of scientific thought, and it is deeply interesting to

know that on her death-bed, five years before, his wife said
to him as one of her parting counsels, " Do not lose sight of
the men of science, and do not let them lose sight of you."
" And then," writes Stanley to Tyndall, " she named yourself

and Huxley."
      Strangely enough, the death of the Dean involved

another invitation to Huxley to quit London for Oxford.
By the appointment of Dean Bradley to Westminster, the
Mastership of University College was left vacant. Huxley,

who was so far connected with the college that he had

examined there for a science Fellowship, was asked if he

3*                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                             chap, i

would accept :                but after careful consideration declined. He
writes to his               son, who had heard rumours of the affair in
                         it,
Oxford --

                                               is 4  Marlborough Place, Nov. 4, 1881.

     My dear Lens --There                            truth in the rumour in so far as
                                                                     I
this that was asked                          would allow myself to be nominated for
     II                                                                  a

                 I                                                                ;
                      iIf
the Mastership of University, that took the question into serious            I
                                                     I                                     is

consideration and finally declined.

     But was asked to consider the communication made to me

confidential, and observed the condition strictly. The leakage

must have taken place among my Oxford friends, and                                             their

responsibility, but at the same time                           would rather you did not
contribute to rumour on the subject. Of course should have toldIa
                                                       II
you          had not been bound to reticence.
   I iIf
           I
     was greatly tempted for short time by the prospect of rest,

but when came to look into the matter closely there were many

disadvantages.  I             do       not   think       am cut      out for Don nor your
                                              have   had thirty      years' freedom in London,
mother for Donness                    -- we
             a

and are too old to put in harness.

     Moreover, in monetary sense should have lost rather than
                            a

gained.                               at the   p--ropEovsearl   was  unfeigned, and     begin to
                                      Bishop.                  your  loving father,
     My astonishment

think may yet be
     I

                                   a

                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

     His other occupations this year were the Medical Acts

Commission, which sat until the following year, and the

International Medical Congress.

     The Congress detained him in London this summer
later than usual. It lasted from the 3rd to the 9th of

August, on which day he delivered                                    concluding address on
                  is
                     a p.

                                                             a
                                                                                     a
" The Connection of the Biological Sciences with Medicine "

{Coll. Ess. iii.                      347). He showed how medicine was

gradually raised from mere empiricism and based upon true

pathological principles, through the independent growth of

physiological knowledge, and its correlation to chemistry and
physics. " It                  peculiarity," he remarks, " of the physical

sciences that they are independent in proportion as they are
imperfect." Yet " there could be no real science of pathology

until the science of physiology had reached                                             degree of

perfection unattained, and indeed unattainable, until quite

recent times." Historically speaking, modern physiology, he

1881 INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CONGRESS

pointed out, began with Descartes' attempt to explain bodily

phenomena on purely physical principles ; but the Cartesian
notion of one controlling central mechanism had to give way
before the proof of varied activities residing in various
tissues, until the cell-theory united something of either view.
" The body is a machine of the nature of an army, not that
of a watch or of a hydraulic apparatus." On this analogy,
diseases are derangements either of the physiological units
of the body, or of their co-ordinating machinery : and the
future of medicine depends on exact knowledge of these
derangements and of the precise alteration of the conditions
by the administration of drugs or other treatment, which will
redress those derangements without disturbing the rest of the

body.

     A few extracts from letters to his wife describe his

occupation at the Congress, which involved too much
" society " for his liking.

    August 4. --The Congress began with great eclat yesterday, and

the latter part of Paget's address was particularly fine. After, there
was the lunch at the Pagets' with the two Royalties. After that, an
address by Virchow. After that, dinner at Sanderson's, with a con

Ifused splutter of German to the neighbours on my right. After that

a tremendous soiree at South Kensington, from which escaped as

soon as I could, and got home at midnight. There is a confounded

Lord Mayor's dinner this evening (" the usual turtle and speeches to
the infinite bewilderment and delight of the foreigners," August 6),

and to-morrow a dinner at the Physiological Society. But I have

got off the Kew party, and mean to go quietly down to the Spottis
woodes [i.e. at Sevenoaks] on Saturday afternoon, and get out of the
way of everything except the College of Surgeons' soiree, till

Tuesday. Commend me for my prudence.

      On the 5th he was busy all day with Government
Committees, only returning to correct proofs of his address

before the social            functions    of the  evening.  Next morning

he writes :--

    I have been toiling at my address this morning. It is all
printed, but I must turn it inside out, and make a speech of it if I

am to make any impression on the audience in St. James' Hall.
Confound all
                    --sucIh   bobberies.  my  address  Ito-day as well as ever
    AVuOgLu.stII9.           got through
                                                                                 D

34      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY              chap, ii

did anything. There was a large audience, as it was the final
Imeeting of the Congress, and to my surprise
                                              found myself in

I Iexcellent voice and vigour. So there is life in the old dog yet.

But am greatly relieved it is over, as have been getting rather

shaky.

       When the Medical Congress was over, he joined his
family at Grasmere for the rest of August. In September
he attended the British Association at York, where he read
a paper on the " Rise and Progress of Paleontology," and
ended the month with fishery business at Aberystwith and

 Carmarthen.

       The above paper is to be found in Collected Essays, iv.
p. 24. In it he concludes an historical survey of the views
held about fossils by a comparison of the opposite hypo
theses upon which the vast store of recently accumulated

facts may be interpreted ; and declaring for the hypothesis
of evolution, repeats the remarkable words of the " Coming
of Age of the Origin of Species," that " the paleontological
discoveries of the last decade are so completely in accord

ance with the requirements of this hypothesis that, if it

had not existed, the paleontologist would have had to
invent it."

      In February died Thomas Carlyle. Mention has
already been made of the influence of his writings upon
Huxley in strengthening and fixing once for all, at the very
outset of his career, that hatred of shams and love of vera
city, which were to be the chief principle of his whole life.
It was an obligation he never forgot, and for this, if for
nothing else, he was ready to join in a memorial to the
man. In reply to a request for his support in so doing, he

wrote to Lord Stanley of Alderley on March 9 :--

    Anything I can do to help in raising a memorial to Carlyle shall
I Ibe most willingly done. Few men can have dissented more strongly

from his way of looking at things than ; but should not yield to
the most devoted of his followers in gratitude for the bracing whole

Isome influence of his writings when, as a very young man, was

essaying without rudder or compass to strike out a course for

myself.

    Mention has already been made (p. 31) of his ill-health

iSSi FORGE TFULNESS                                                   35

at the end of the year, which was perhaps a premonition of
the breakdown of 1883. An indication of the same kind
may be found in the following letter to Mrs. Tyndall, who

had forwarded a document which Dr. Tyndall had meant to

send himself with an explanatory note.

                            4 Marlborough Place, March 25, 1881.

    IMy dear Mrs. Tyndall--But where is his last note to me ?

That is the question on which have been anxiously hoping for light

since I received yours and the inclosure, which contains such a very
sensible proposition that I should like to know how it came into

existence, abiogenetically or otherwise.

    IAs am by way of forgetting everything myself just now, it is a

comfort to me to believe that Tyndall has forgotten he forgot to
                                                        inclosure. The force of dis
send the letter of which  fhuerthfoerrgogt o.t--he     In affectionate bewilderment,
remembering could no                                   T. H. Huxley.

ever yours,

      His general view of his health, however, was much more
optimistic, as appears from a letter to Mrs. May (wife of the
friend of his boyhood) about her son, whose strength had
been sapped by typhoid fever, and who had gone out to the

Cape to recruit.

                            4 Marlborough Place, June 10, 1881.

    My dear Mrs. May --I promised your daughter the other day
Ithat would send you the Bishop of Natal's letter to me. Unfor
tunately I had mislaid and only turned up just now when was
making one of my periodical clearances in the chaos of papers thatit,a

accumulates on my table.     I a it                           I

                                              a
      You will be pleased to see how fully the good Bishop appreciates

Stuart's excellent qualities, and as to the physical part of the business,

though            sad enough that young man should be impeded in this
    I
                                                         Delicate young people often
          it                                           thread paper of boy myself,
              is
way,  outthsintrkonygouolsdhopueldoplbee--hopwefausl.
turn

and now am an extremely tough old personage. . . .
        I                                              Mr. May and yourself-- Ever
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.
      With our united kind  regards  to
yours very faithfully,

       Perhaps he had been able each year to carry out theif
wish expressed in the following letter, which covered an
introduction to Dr. Tyndall at his house on the Bel Alp, the

breakdown of 1883 might have been averted.

36          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                    chap, ii

                                              4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,
                                                               July 5 (1881?)

    IMy dear Skelton --
Ieverybody, but am sure
                                       It is a great deal    more than   would say for
                                       Tyndall will be       very much  obliged to me
for making you known to him ; and if you, insignificant male
creature, how very much more for the opportunity of knowing Mrs.

Skelton !

    IFor which last pretty speech hope the lady will make a prettier
curtsey. So go boldly across the Aletsch, and if they have a
knocIkewrish(wIhiwcehreI
                             doubt),   knock and it    shall  be opened unto you.
                             going to  be there too ;   but   Royal Commissions are
                                                       and
a kind of endemic in my constitution,                         I have a very bad one

just now.*                                    to Mrs. Skelton -- Ever yours very
     With kind remembrances
                                                                      T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

     The ecclesiastical sound of his new title of Dean of the

College of Science afforded him a good deal of amusement.

He   writes from              --Grasmere, where        he had joined    his family
for  the summer
                             vacation :

                                                                     Aug. 18, 1881.

    My dear Donnelly --I am astonished that you don't know that
a letter to a Dean ought to be addressed "The Very Revd." I

don't generally stand much upon etiquette, but when my sacred

Icharacter is touched draw the line.

     We had athletics here yesterday, and as it was a lovely day,

all Cumberland and Westmoreland sent contingents to see the

fun. . . .                                    place if it were drier, but the rain it

raineTthhisevweroyulddayb--e yaestgerradnady  being the only really fine day since our

arrival.

    IHowever, we all thrive, so suppose we are adapting ourselves

to the medium, and shall be scaly and finny before long.
                                                              It is high time you were
out  Hofavite. --n'tEyvoeur  done   with      Babylon yet ?         T. H. Huxley.
                             yours  very      faithfully,

                             1 The Medical Acts Commission, 1881-2.

                 CHAPTER III

                                              1882

The year 1882 was a dark year for English science. It
was marked by the death of both Charles Darwin and of
Francis Balfour, the young investigator, of whom Huxley
once said, " He is the only man who can carry out my
work." The one was the inevitable end of a great career,
in the fulness of time ; the other was one of those losses

which are the more deplorable as they seem unnecessary,

the result of a chance slip, in all the vigour of youth. I

remember his coming to our house just before setting out on
his fatal visit to Switzerland, and my mother begging him
to be careful about risking so valuable a life as his in
dangerous ascents. He laughingly replied that he only

wanted to conquer one little peak on Mont Blanc. A few

days later came the news of his fatal fall upon the precipices
of the Aiguille Blanche. Since the death of Edward
Forbes, no loss outside the circle of his family had affected
my father so deeply. For three days he was utterly prostrated,
and was scarcely able either to eat or sleep.

      There was indeed a subtle affinity between the two men.
My mother, who was greatly attached to Francis Balfour,
said once to Sir M. Foster, " He has not got the dash and
verve, but otherwise he reminds me curiously of what my
husband was in his ' Rattlesnake ' days." " How strange,"
replied Sir Michael, "when he first came to the front, Lan-
kester wrote asking me, ' Who is this man Balfour you are

always talking about ? ' and I answered, ' Well, I can only

describe him by saying he is a younger Huxley.' "

38                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                      chap, m

says W:--riting to Dr. Dohrn on September 24, Huxley

    Heavy blows have fallen upon me this year in losing Darwin and
IBalfour, the best of the old and the best of the young.
                                                                                            am beginning
Ito feel older than my age myself, and if Balfour had lived should have

cleared out of the way as soon as possible, feeling that the future of
Zoological Science in this country was very safe in his hands. As
                      "mNayunsctilldibmeittoisf
it am afraidiIs,                                 use for                         some years, and shall  be
unable to sing my                                " with                           good conscience.
                   ;

                 I
                                    I

                                                                                :

                                                                         a
    Darwin was in correspondence with him till quite near

the end    having received the                   volume                            Science  and  Culture,
he wrote  on January 12, 1882
                                                 --

     With respect to automatism,* wish that you could review your                           I
self in the old, and, of course, forgotten, trenchant style, and then                                 ;
you would have [to] answer yourself with equal incisiveness and                                              .
thus, by Jove, you might go on ad infinitum to the joy and instruction                                           .
of the world.

    And again on March 27 --
                                   :

                                               a
    Your most kind letter has been                        real cordial to                        me. .
                                                                                                    wish to
Once again accept my cordial thanks, my dear old friend.

God there were more automata in the world like you.

    Darwin died on April 19, and a brief notice being

required for the forthcoming number of Nature on the 27th,

Huxley made shift to write a brief article, which printed
                                   ii.
                                                                                    a is
in the Collected Essays,           p. 244. But as neither he nor Sir

Joseph Hooker could at the moment undertake regular

obituary notice, this was entrusted to Professor Romanes,

to whom the following letters were written.

                                   Marlborough Place, April 26, 1882.
                                   4

                                           I
                                                                     I
    My dear Romanes --Thank you for your hearty letter.                                          spent

many hours over the few paragraphs               sent to Nature, in trying to

express what all who thoroughly knew and therefore loved Darwin,

must feel in language which should be absolutely free from rhetoric

or exaggeration.

    have done my best, and the sad thing that cannot look for
1I                                                                                 is

                                                                                         I

    The allusion  is  to the 1874 address on " Animals as Automata," which was

reprinted in Science and Culture.

1882 DEATH OF CHARLES DARWIN                                                                    39

Ithose cheery notes he used to send me in old times, when                                       had

written anything that pleased him.

     In case we should miss one another to-day, let me say that it is

impossible for me to undertake the obituary in Nature. I have a
                                        of various
Iconglomeration of          business                     kinds           uhpaonnds.m--y  hands    just
now.         am sure        it will be  very safe      in your                           Ever   yours
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

     IPray do what you will with what have written in Nature.

                                            4 Marlborough Place, May 9, 1882.

     My dear Romanes --I feel it very difficult to offer any useful

criticism on what you have written about Darwin, because, although

it does not quite please me, I cannot exactly say how I think it

might be improved. My own way is to write and rewrite things,

Iuntil by some sort of instinctive process they acquire the condensa

tion and symmetry which satisfies me. And really could not say

how my original drafts are improved until they somehow improve

themselves.                                         I think there is too

the  Two     things         however strike   me.    be disposed to quote                 much of
              about                         should                                       only the
     letter                  Henslow. I

Imost characteristic passages.

     The other point is that think strength would be given to your

Ipanegyric by a little pruning here and there.

         am not likely to take a low view of Darwin's position in the

Ihistory of science, but am disposed to think that Buffon and

Lamarck would run him hard in both genius and fertility. In

breadth of view and in extent of knowledge these two men were

giants, though we are apt to forget their services. Von Bar was

another man of the same stamp ; Cuvier, in a somewhat lower rank,

anoth" eCro;loassnadl  J".   Miiller another.  to  me  to  be the right epithet                 for
                            does not seem

Darwin's intellect. He had a clear rapid intelligence, a great

memory, a vivid imagination, and what made his greatness was the

strict subordination of all these to his love of truth.

      But you will be tired of my              tcoarpyoinugr,selaf.n--d  you   had much     better
write what seems right and just                                          Ever   yours very   faith
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.
fully,

      Two scientific papers published this year were on

subjects connected with his work on the fisheries, one " A

contribution to the Pathology of the Epidemic known as the
' Salmon Disease ' " read before the Royal Society on the
occasion of the Prince of Wales being admitted a Fellow
(February 21 ; Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxiii. pp. 381-389); the

4°      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                           CHAP. Ill

other on " Saprolegnia in relation to the Salmon Disease "

( Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, xxii.                                         p"pR. e3s1pi1r-a3t3o3ry).
A third, at the Zoological Society, was on the

Organs of Apteryx" (Proc. Z. S. 1882, pp. 560-569). He
delivered an address before the Liverpool Institution on

" Science and Art in Relation to Education " (Coll. Ess. iii.

p. 160), and was busy with the Medical Acts Commission,

which reported this year.

        The aim of this Commission * was to level up the varying

qualifications bestowed by nearly a score of different licens

ing bodies in the United Kingdom, and to establish some

central control by the State over the licensing of medical

practitioners.

     The report recommended the establishments of Boards
in each division of the United Kingdom containing repre

sentatives of all the medical bodies in the division. These

boards would register students, and admit to a final examina
tion those who had passed the preliminary and minor
examinations at the various universities and other bodies

already granting degrees and qualifications. Candidates
who passed this final examination would be licensed by the

General Medical Council, a body to be elected no longer by

the separate bodies interested in medical education, but by

the Divisional Boards.
     The report rejected a scheme for joint examination by

the existing bodies, assisted by outside examiners appointed
by a central authority, on the ground of difficulty and ex

pense, as well as one for a separate State examination. It

also provided for compensation from the fees to be paid by

the candidates to existing bodies whose revenues might

suffer from the new scheme.

     To this majority report, six of the eleven Commissioners
appended separate reports, suggesting other methods for

carrying out the desired end. Among the latter was
Huxley, who gave his reasons for dissenting from the

principle assumed by his colleagues, though he had signed
the main report as embodying the best means of carrying
out a reform, that principle being granted.

     1  hFisor"aSftualtleeranadccoMuendticoafl  thEidsucCaotmiomn is"sio(nColla.ndEstsh. e   part played in it by   Huxley,
see                                                                                         iii. 323), published   1884.

iS82 MEDICAL ACTS COMMISSION                                                                   4i

     " The State examination," he thought, " was ideally
best, but for many reasons impossible." But the " conjoint
scheme " recommended in the report appeared to punish the

efficient medical authorities for the abuses of the inefficient.
Moreover, if the examiners of the Divisional Board did not

affiliate themselves to any medical authority, the compensa

tion to be provided would be very heavy ; if they did,

" either they will affiliate without further examination, which
will give them the pretence of a further qualification, with
out any corresponding reality, or they will affiliate in ex

amination, in which case the new examination deprecated

by the general voice of the profession will be added, and

any real difference between the plan proposed and the ' State
examination ' scheme will vanish."

The compensation proposed, too, would chiefly fall to the

discredited bodies, who had neglected their duties.

    IThe scheme (he

suggest is of extreme
                writes in    his report),  which                                     ventured     to
               simplicity ;                cannot                                but think     that
                             and while I

it would prove thoroughly efficient, it interferes with no fair vested

interest in such a manner as to give a claim for compensation,

and it inflicts no burden either in the way of taxation or extra ex

amination on the medical profession.
This proposal
               is,

                         if

                                            ;

                                          if

                                                     it
                                                                 it

                                                                              a
               that any examining body satisfies the

Medical Council (or other State authority), that requires full and
efficient instruction and examination in the three branches of

medicine, surgery, and midwifery and  admits certain number

of coadjutor examiners appointed by the State authority, the

certificate of that authority shall give admission to the Medical

Register.

   submit that while the adopting this proposal would secure
I                                                                                it
                                                                                              a
practically uniform minimum standard of examination,                             would

leave free play to the individuality of the various existing or future
universities and medical corporations that the revenues of such
                                      a;
                                             ;
                                                        a
bodies derived from medical examinations would thenceforth increase

or diminish in the ratio of their deserts that really efficient in

spection of the examinations would be secured, and that no one

could come upon the register without complete qualification.

      That there was no difficulty in this scheme was shown;
by the experience of the Scotch Universities and the ex

pense would be less than the proposed compensation tax.
      The chief part of the summer vacation Huxley spent at

Lynton, on the north coast of Devonshire. " The Happy

42             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                CHAP. Ill

Family," he writes to Dr. Dohrn, " has been spending its

vacation in this pretty place, eighteen miles of up hill and
down dale from any railway." It was a country made for

the long rambles he delighted in after the morning's due

allowance of writing. And although he generally preferred

complete quiet on his holidays, with perfect freedom from all

social exigencies, these weeks of rest were rendered all the

pleasanter by the unstudied and unexacting friendliness of

the family party which centred around Mr. and Mrs. F.

Bailey of Lee Abbey hard by-- Lady Tenterden, the Julius,

and the Henry Pollocks, the latter old friends of ours.

    Though his holiday was curtailed at either end, he was

greatly                by             writes  to  chaff                                                           his  son-in-law  for
taking                  rest
    ;I    set   up               and
                                   it,toolittle
                              --
                                                                                                               !
         was glad to hear that F. had stood his fortnight's holiday so
well three weeks might have knocked him up

      On the same day, September 26, he wrote the letter to

Dr. Dohrn, mentioned above, answering two inquiries -- one

as to arrangements for exhibiting at the Fisheries Exhibition

to be held in London the following year, the other as to
whether England would follow the example of Germany and
Italy in sending naval officers to the Zoological Station at

Naples to be instructed in catching and preserving marine
animals for the purposes of scientific research.

    With respect to question No.      is 2,I  am afraid my answer must be

less hopeful. So far as the British Admiralty        a is                                                         represented by the

ordinary British admiral, the only reply to such proposition as you

make that should expect would be that he (the British admiral, to
         I

wit) would see you     d             first. However, will speak of the matter
                                  d               I

to the Hydrographer, who really interested in science, at the first

opportunity.

      For many years before this, and until the end of hisI

life, there was another side to his correspondence which

deserves mention.

        wish that more of the queer letters, which arrived in
never-failing streams, had been preserved. A favourite type
was the anonymous letter. It prayed fervently, over four
pages, that the Almighty would send him down quick into

the pit, and was usually signed simply " A Lady." Others

1882 LETTERS FROM CRANKS  43

came from cranks of every species : the man who de

monstrated that the world was flat, or that the atmosphere

had no weight -- an easy proof, for you weigh a bottle full of

air ; then break it to pieces, so that it holds nothing ; weigh

the pieces, and they are the same weight as the whole bottle
full of air ! Or, again, that the optical law of equality
between the angle of incidence and the angle of reflection is

a delusion, whence it follows that all our established latitudes

are incorrect, and the difference of temperature between

Labrador and Ireland, nominally on the same parallel, is
easily accounted for. Then came the suggestions of little
pieces of work that might so easily be undertaken by a man
of Huxley's capacity, learning, and energy. Enormous

manuscripts were sent him with a request that he would
write a careful criticism of them, and arrange for their
publication in the proceedings of some learned society or
first-rate magazine. One of the most delightful came this

year. A doctor in India, having just read John Inglesant,

begged Professor Huxley to do for Science what Mr.
Shorthouse had done for the Church of England. As for
the material difficulties in the way of getting such a book
written in the midst of other work, the ingenious doctor
suggested the use of a phonograph driven by a gas-engine.
The great thoughts dictated into it from the comfort of an

armchair, could easily be worked up into novel shape by a

collaborator.
      India, again, provided the following application of 1885,

made in all seriousness by a youthful Punjaubee with

scientific aspirations, who feared to be forced into the law.
After an intimate account of his life, he modestly appeals

for a post in some scientific institution, where he may get

his food, do experiments three or four hours a day, and
learn English. Latterly his mental activity had been very

great :-- " I have been contemplating," he says, " to give a
new system of Political Economy to the world. I have

questioned, perhaps with success, the validity of some of the
fundamental doctrines of H. Spencer's synthetic philosophy,"

and so on.

      Another remarkable communication is a reply-paid

telegram from the States, in 1 892, which ran as follows :--

44       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              chap, hi

    IUnless all reason and all nature have deceived me, have
Ifound the truth. It is my intention to cross the ocean to consult
with those who have helped me most to find it. Shall             be

welcome ? Please answer at my expense, and God grant we all

meet in life on earth.

      Another, of British origin this time, was from a man who
had to read a paper before a local Literary Society on the
momentous question, " Where are we ? " so he sent round a
circular to various authorities to reinforce his own opinions
on the six heads into which he proposed to divide his

discourse, viz. :
                                 Where are we in Space ?
                                         ,, ,, Science ?
                                         ,, ,, Politics ?
                                         ,, ,, Commerce ?
                                         ,, ,, Sociology ?
                                         ,, ,, Theology ?

      The writer received an answer, and a mild one :

     Any adequate reply to your inquiry would be of the nature of a

Itreatise, and that, I regret, cannot undertake to write.

     Two letters of this year touch on Irish affairs, in which

he was always interested, having withal a certain first-hand
knowledge of the people and the country they lived in, from
his visits there, both as a Fishery Commissioner and on
other occasions. He writes warmly to the historian who
treated of Ireland without prejudice or rancour.

                                         4 Marlborough Place,
                                                April 16, 1882.

     My  dear Lecky --Accept my   best thanks for your    two  volumes,
                                  Scotland yesterday.
which I  found on my return from
    I can give no better evidence of my appreciation of their

contents than by the confession that they have caused me to neglect
my proper business all yesterday evening and all to-day.
    The section devoted to Irish affairs is a model of lucidity, and
bears on its face the stamp of justice and fair dealing. It is a most

worthy continuation of the chapter on the same subject in the first

I Ivolume, and that is giving high praise.

     You see write as if knew something about the subject, but

you are responsible for creating  the    delusion.    --  EHv.erHuyoxulersy.very
      With kindest remembrances      to   Mrs. Lecky
                                                      T.
faithfully,

1882 A PAGE FROM A PRIVATE DIARY                                                                  45

     A few weeks later, the      murder of Lord                                             Frederick
                                 horror throughout
Cavendish sent a thrill of       as any, but wrote                                           England.
Huxley was as deeply moved                                                                  calmly of

the situation.

                      To his ElDest Son

                                 4 Marlborough Place,
                                         May 9, 1882.

My dear Leonard --Best thanks for your good wishes.* Not
Iwithstanding the disease of A.D., which always proves mortal sooner

or later, am in excellent case. . . .

    I knew both Lord F. Cavendish and his wife and Mr. Burke.
I have never been able to get poor Lady Frederick out of my head

since the news arrived.

     The public mind has been more stirred than by anything since
the Indian Mutiny. But if the Government keep their heads cool,
great good may come out of the evil, horrible as it is. The Fenians

have reckoned on creating an irreparable breach between England

and Ireland. It should be our business to disappoint them first

and extirpate them    aTfitmeerws.a--rdsE. verByuot utrheaffneecwtisopnaapteer   writers    make  me
sick, especially the                                                            father,
                                                   T. H. Huxley.

It is interesting, also, to see how he appeared about this

time to one of a younger generation, acute, indeed, and

discriminating, but predisposed by circumstances and up

bringing to regard him at first with curiosity rather than

sympathy. For this account I am indebted to one who has

the habit, so laudable in good hands, of keeping a journal of
                           I have every confidence in the
events and conversations.

substantial accuracy of so well trained a reporter.

                      Extract from Journal

                                                                                Nov. 25, 1882.

In the evening we dined at the                     chiefly family party
                         1
                                                              )
                                                                     's,

                                                           if
                                                                                         a
with the addition of Professor Huxley and his wife and ourselves.

Much lively conversation, after dinner, begun among the ladies, but

continued after the gentlemen appeared, on the subjects of Truth,

Education, and Women's Rights, or, more strictly speaking, women's

capabilities. Our hostess (Lady  was,                                           possible, more

                         For his birthday, May 4.

46  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                          CHAP. Ill

vehement and paradoxical than her wont, and vigorously maintained

that truth was no virtue in itself, but must be inculcated for ex

pediency's sake. The opposite          avsiew"   found  a  champion in Professor
Huxley, who described himself                   almost  a  fanatic for the sanctity

of truth." Lady            urged that truth was often a very selfish

virtue, and that a man of noble and unselfish character might lie for

the sake of a friend, to which some one replied that after a course of

this unselfish lying the noble character was pretty sure to deteriorate,

while the Professor laughingly suggested that the owner had a good

chance of finding himself landed ultimately in Botany Bay.

     The celebrated instance of John Inglesant's perjury for the sake
of Charles I. was then brought forward, and it was this which led

Professor Huxley to say that in his judgment               thn"aoHt eo"nemmoahryaadl   the right
passively to submit to a false accusation, and                                         suicide "
                                                                                      refuse to
was as blameworthy as physical suicide.

commit another, but he ought not to allow himself to be believed

worse than he actually is. It is a loss to the world of moral force,

which cannot be afforded."

    . . . Then as regards women's powers. The Professor said he

                    their  ever succeeding in a competition
                           can't help looking at women with
                    :-- "
Idid not believein                                           with men.
    on                                                       something
Then he went                           Twenty years ago I thought the

of the eye of a physiologist.
womanhood of England was going to the dogs," but now, he said,

he observed a wonderful change for the better. We asked to what

he attributed it.   W" aPsartitly,t"o  lawn tennis   a"ndbutthme ugcrheatmeor revartioettyheoirf
bodily exercises ?                     he answered,
having more pursuits- -- more to interest them and to occupy their

thoughts and time."

    The following letter bears upon the question of employ

ing retired engineer officers in administrative            posts                      in the

Science and Art Department :--

                                                                   The Rookery, Lynton,

                                                                                                 Sept. 19, 1882.

    IMy dear Donnelly --Your letter seems to have arrived here
Ithe very day left for Whitby, whither had to betake myself to

inspect a weir, so I did not get it until my return last night.
    I am extremely sorry to hear of the possibility of Martin's giving

Iup his post. He took so much interest in the work and was so very

pleasant to deal with, that do not think we shall easily find any one

Ifto replace him.

         you will find another R.E. at all like him, in Heaven's name
catch him and put him in, job or no job.

      The objection to a small clerk is that we want somebody who
knows how to deal with men, and especially young men on the one

i882 LETTERS                                                                               47

hand, and especially cantankerous (more or less) old scientific buffers
on the other.

     The objection to a man of science is that (i) we want a man of
business and not a m.s., and     (2) that no man scientifically worth

having that I know of is likely  to take such an office.
    " As at present advised" I
                                 am all for an R.E., so I cannot have

the  pleasure even of  ktriynidnegsttorecgoanrdvser--t yEovue.r
     With our united
                                                                 yours  very  faithfully,
                                                                      T. H. Huxley.
     I return next Monday.

     Two letters of thanks follow, one at the beginning of the
year to Mr. Herbert Spencer for the gift of a very fine
photograph of himself ; the other, at the end of the year, to
Mr. (afterwards Sir John) Skelton, for his book on Mary
Queen of Scots and the Casket Letters.

     As to the former, it must be premised that Mr. Spencer

abhorred exaggeration and inexact talk, and would ruth

lessly prick the airy bubbles which endued the conversation
of the daughters of the house with more buoyancy than
strict logic, a gift which, he averred, was denied to woman.

                                                      4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                 Jan. 25, 1882.

     My dear Spencer--Best thanks for the photograph.                                  It is

very good, though there is just a touch of severity in the eye. We
shall hang it up in the dining-room, and if anybody is guilty of

exaggerated    expressions    or bad logic     (five             womenkind     habitually  sit
round that                     they will feel   that             that eye is  upon them.
             table), I trust                                                               --

Ever yours very faithfully,                                             T. H. Huxley.

                                      4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                      Dec. 31, 1882.

     My dear Skelton   --If I may     not thank                  you for the book          you
                                                                 anyrate wish you          and
have been kind enough    to send me,  I may at

Mrs. Skelton a happy New Year and many on 'em.

    I Iam going to read your vindication of Mary Stuart as soon as
I Ican. Hitherto
             am sorry to say have classed her with Eve,

Helen, Cleopatra, Delilah, and sundry other glorious                             s who

have lured men to their destruction.

    IBut am open to conviction, and ready to believe that she blew

up her husband only a little more thoroughly than other women do,
by reason of her keener perception of logic. -- Ever yours very
                                                                        T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

              CHAPTER IV

                                     1883

The pressure of official work, which had been constantly

growing since 1880, reached its highest point in 1883.
Only one scientific memoir 1 was published by him this year,
and then no more for the next four years. The intervals
of lecturing and examining were chiefly filled by fishery
business, from which, according to his usual custom when
immersed in any investigation, he chose the subject, " Oysters
and the Oyster Question," both for his Friday evening dis
course at the Royal Institution on May 1 1, and for his
course to Working Men between Jan. 8 and Feb. 12.

     There are the usual notes of all seasons at all parts of

England. A deserted hotel at Cromer in January was

uninviting.

     My windows look out on a wintry sea, and it is bitter cold.

INotwithstanding, a large number of the aquatic gentlemen to whom

   shall have the pleasure of listening, by and by, are loafing against
the railings opposite, as only fishermen can loaf.

      In April he had been ill, and his wife begged him to put
off some business which had to be done at York. But

unless absolutely ordered to bed by his doctor, nothing

would induce him to put personal convenience before public
duty. However, he took his son to look after him.

Irather  am   none the worse for     my journey      (IheshowuriltdeshafvreomfailYeodrki)n,
         the   better ; so Clark is  justified, and

      1 Contributions to Morphology, Ichthyopsida,  No. 2. On the    Oviducts of
Osmerus ; with remarks on the relations of the      Teleostean with  the Ganoid
Fishes (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1883, pp. 132-139).

1883 FISHER Y BUSINESS                                                                49

my duty if I had not come.        H. looks after me almost as well as

you could do.

     To make amends, fishery business in the west country
during a fine summer had " a good deal of holiday in it,"

though a cross journey      matadtehehimbegwinrinteing:--of    August                from
Abergavenny to Totness

    If Iever (except to-morrow, by the way) travel within measurable

distance of a Bank Holiday by the Great Western, may jackasses sit

on my grandmother's grave.

As the business connected with the Inspectorship had

been enlarged in the preceding years by exhibitions at

Norwich and Edinburgh, so it was enlarged this year, and to

a still greater extent, by the Fisheries Exhibition in London.

This involved upon him as Commissioner, not only the organ

isation of the Conference on Fish Diseases and the paper on

the Diseases of Fish  aanldreamdyorem--entaionsepde,echbuot n  administration,
                                                                behalf of the
committee meetings,

Commissioners in reply to the welcome given them by the

Prince of Wales at the opening of the exhibition. On the

following day he expressed his feelings at this mode of

spending his time in a letter to Sir M. Foster.

I am dog-tired with yesterday's function. Had to be at the

Exhibition in full fig at 10 a.m., and did not get home from the

Fishmongers' dinner till 1.20 this morning.
Will you tell me what all this has to do with my business in life,

and why the last fragments of     darimveisls?p--entYoluifres  that are left  to  me  are
to be frittered away in all this                                savagely,

                                                               T. H. H.

Later in the year, also, he had to serve on another Fishery

Commission much against his will, though on the under

standing that, in view of his other engagements, he need not

attend all the sittings.

    A more satisfactory result of the Exhibition was that he

found himself brought into close contact with several of the

great city companies, whose enormous resources he had long

been trying, not without some success, to enlist on behalf of

technical and scientific education.

Among these may be noted the Fishmongers, the

VOL. 11                                                                           E

              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                          chap, iv

Mercers, who had already interested themselves in technical

education, and gave their hall for the meetings of the City

and Guilds Council, of which Huxley was an active member ;

the Clothworkers, in whose schools he distributed the prizes

this year ; and, not least, the Salters, who presented him

with their freedom on November 1 3. Their master, Mr.

J. W. Clark, writing in August, after Huxley had accepted
their proposal, says : " I think you must admit that the

City Companies have yielded liberally to the gentle com

pression you have exercised on them. So far from helping

you to act the traitor, we propose to legitimise your claim

for education, which several of us shall be willing to unite
with you in promoting " (see vol. i, p. 508).

The crowning addition, however, to Huxley's official

work was the Presidency of the Royal Society. He had

resigned the   Secretaryship           in 1880,   --afteAr irhyo, ldiHnogokoeffri,ce   for
nine years    under three             Presidents                                      and

Spottiswoode. Spottiswoode, like Hooker, was a member

of the x Club, and was regarded with great affection and

respect  :--by Huxley, who        in  1887  wrote  of him to Mr. John
Morley

    It is quite absurd you don't know Spottiswoode, and I shall do

both him and you a good turn by bringing you together. He is

one of my best friends, and comes under the AI class of "people

with whom you may go tiger-hunting."

     On June   s7a, yswr:--iting  to  Professor    (afterwards  Sir E.)
Frankland, he

     You will have heard that Spottiswoode is seriously ill. The

physicians suspect typhoid, but are not quite certain. I called this

morning, and hear that he remains much as he has been for the
last two or three days. So many of our friends have dropped away

in the course of the last two years that I am perhaps morbidly

anxious about Spottiswoode, but there is no question that his

condition is such as to cause grave anxiety.

     But by the end of the month his fears were realised.
Consequently it devolved upon the Council of the Royal
Society to elect one of their own body to hold office until

the St. Andrew's Day following, when a regular President
would be elected at a general meeting of the Society.

1883 ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY 51

Huxley himself had no wish to stand. He writes to

Sir M. Foster on June  27,   amnnoorunnincging:--Spottiswoode's  death,
which had taken place  that

    It is very grievous in all ways. Only the other day he and I

were talking of the almost miraculous way in which the x Club had
held together without a break for some 18 years, and little did
either of us suspect that he would be the first to go.

     A heavy responsibility falls on you in the Royal Society. It

strikes me you will have to call another meeting of the Council
before the recess for the consideration of the question of the

IPresidency. It is hateful to talk of these things, but want you to

form some notion of what had best be done as you come up to

-morrow.

            is a possibility, but none of the other officers I think.

      Indeed, he wished to diminish his official distractions
rather than to increase them. His health was unlikely to

stand any additional strain, and he longed to devote the
remainder of his working years to his unfinished scientific

researches. But he felt very strongly that the President
of the Royal Society ought to be chosen for his eminence
in science, not on account of social position, or of wealth,

even though the wealth might have been acquired through
the applications of science. The acknowledgment of this

principle had led some years back to the great revolution
from within, which succeeded in making the Society the
living centre and representative of science for the whole

country, and he was above all things anxious that the
principle should be maintained. He was assured, however,

from several quarters that unless he allowed himself to be

put forward, there was danger lest the principle should be

disregarded.

      Moved by these considerations of public necessity, he

unwillingly consented to be nominated, but only to fill the
vacancy till the general meeting, when the whole Society
could make a new choice. Yet even this limitation seemed
difficult to maintain in the face of the widely expressed
desire that he would then stand for the usual period of five
years. " The worst of it is," he wrote to Sir M. Foster on

July 2, " that I see myself gravitating towards the Presidency
en permanence, that is to say, for the ordinary period. And

52                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 CHAP. IV

that is what I by no means desired.                                      has been at me

(as a sort of deputation, he told me, from a lot of the

younger men) to stand. However, I suppose there is no

need to come to any decision yet."

     The   following        letters, in reply to               cionngthreatualfafatiiorn:--s  on  his
           illustrate      his attitude of mind
election,

                  To the WarDen of Merton

                                                               Hindhead, July 8, 1883.

    IMy dear Brodrick --       do not get so                             many    pleasant letters
Ithat can afford to leave the  senders of such                           things  unthanked.
     I am very much obliged for your congratulations, and I may say
that I accepted the office inter alia for the purpose of getting people

htoavebelnieevitehertharitchessuchnoprlascteastionma--y wbheo  properly held     by people who
     give -- and who                                            want nothing     that statesmen

can  the freedom of        sccaierencef.o--r nEovtehrinygouersxcevpetry  upholding    the     dignity
and                                                                      faithfully,
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

                  To Sir W. H. Flower, F.R.S.

                               4 Marlborough Place, July 7, 1883.
     My dear Flower --I am overwhelmed by the kind letters I
Iget from all sides, and   need hardly say that I particularly value

yours.

    I IA month ago said that ought not, could not, and would not

take the Presidency under any circumstances whatever. My wife

was dead against  I I it,  and you know how hen-pecked                           am.
                                                                         II
     Even when was asked to take the Presidency to the end of the
                                                                                                        is is
year and agreed, stipulated for my freedom next St. Andrew's Day.
      But such strong representations were made to me by some of

the younger men about the dangers of the situation, that at the last

moment almost changed my mind.
      However, wanted to be clearly understood that the Council
           I               it
             I
                                I
and the Society are, so far as am concerned, perfectly free to put
somebody else in my place next November. All stipulate for

that my successor shall be man of science.
                           a
                              it,
    I  will not,  iIf  can help allow the chair of the Royal Society

to become the apanage of rich men, or have the noble old Society

exploited by enterprising commercial gents who make their profit

out  of the application of science.  --quite                   the contrary-- but she
     Mrs. President was not pleased

mollified by the kindly expressions, public and private, which have

received the election.

1883 ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY 53

     And there are none         which          wcean'bt otshayvaitluetoomToo.rfeteHnt..h)a--nHuEyxvoleuerrys..your(sI

see I said that before,         but I

very faithfully,

                                                            Hindhead, Julv 8, 1883.
My dear Flower -- Many thanks for your comforting letter.
      I am  fairly committed to anything I

      your  judgment that have done right
IW--haennd                                                  geisne"ragllryatehfualve   a cold fit
                                                                                      and com
forting " like Epps' Cocoa. It is not so much work as distraction

Ithat is involved ; and though it may put a stop to my purely

scientific work for a while, I don't know that could be better

employed in the interests of science than in trying to keep the

Royal Society straight.                        it at first --and                     indeed  when  I
     My wife was very much against
was first spoken to I declared that I would not go on after next St.

Andrew's Day. But a good deal of pressure was brought to bear by
                                 and if                                              out I shall say
some  Moaf cmMyahforinen, ds",  J'y suis  the   Fellows     d--onE'vt etrurnyoumres
with                                      et   j'y reste."                           very faithfully,
                                                            T. H. Huxley.

We have run down here for a day, but are back to-morrow.

                                          4 Marlborough Place, July 10, 1883.
My dear Spencer -- What an agreeable surprise your letter
            I have been expecting the most awful scolding for
has been.

taking more work, and behold as sweetly congratulatory an epistle

as a man could wish.

    Three weeks ago I swore by all my gods that I would not take
the offer at any price, but I suppose the infusion of Theism was too

Ifhomoeopathic for the oath to bind.                        you are so amiable with

      Go on sleeping, my dear friend.

three nights, what will you be with three weeks ?
                                rain is sent you. You
    IWhat a shame no            of a Yankee doing the       wotilhlerbedasype--aki"ngWaal,bosuirt,
            as heard
Providence
II guess he's good ; but he's careless."
                                                                                                   of
         think there is a good deal in that view of the government
the world. -- Ever yours very faithfully,                   T. H. Huxley.

                     To his ElDest Daughter

                                        4 Marlborough Place, July 14, 1883.

    Dearest Jess --I am not sure either whether my accession to

the Presidency is a matter for congratulation. Honour and glory

are all very fine, but on the whole I prefer peace and quietness, and
three weeks ago I declared I would have nothing to do with it.

54                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                          chap, iv

    IBut there are a good many circumstances in the present state of

affairs which weighed heavily in the scale, and so made up my

mind to try the experiment.

    If I don't suit the office or the office don't suit me, there is a

way out every 30th of November.                    Secretaryship -- but
      There was more work connected with the

there is more trouble and responsibility and distraction in the

Presidency.
    I am amused with your account of your way of governing your
Iheadstrong boy.
I Ivery similar, and
                          find the way of governing headstrong men to be
                         believe it is by practising the method that get

the measure of success with which people credit me.

    But they are often very fractious, and it is a bother for a man

who was meant for a student.

    Poor Spottiswoode's death was a great blow to me. Never was
                          I hoped he would stop
a better man,   a. --nd                            where he was for the next
ten years. . .           Ever your loving father,
                                                          T. H. Huxley.

    He finally decided that the question of standing again in

November must depend on whether this course was likely to

cause division in the ranks of the Society. He earnestly

desired to avoid anything like a contest for scientific

honours ; 1 he was almost morbidly anxious that the tem
porary choice of himself should not be interpreted as

binding the electors in any way.
     I
        give the    following letters to show his sensitiveness     on
every   question
                    of honour and of public advantage :--

                              Brechin Castle, Brechin, N.B.,

                                                   Sept. 19, 1883.

    My dear Foster --We got here yesterday. The Commission

Idoes not meet till next week, so like the historical donkey of
Jeshurun     have nothing to do but to wax fat and kick in this

excellent pasture.

     At odd times lately my mind has been a good deal exercised

about the Royal Society. I am quite willing to go on in the chair
if the Council and the Society wish it. But it is quite possible that

the Council who chose me when the choice was limited to their

own body, might be disposed to select some one else when the range

of choice is extended to the whole body of the Society. And I am

    1 As he wrote a little later :-- " I have never competed in the way of honour
in my life, and I cannot allow myself to be even thought of as in such a position

now, where, with all respect to the honour and glory, they do not appear to me

to be in any way equivalent to the burden. And I am not at all sure that I may

not be able to serve the right cause outside the Chair rather than in it."

1883 PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY                                                55

very anxious that the Council should be made to understand, when

the question comes forward for discussion after the recess, that the

fact of present tenancy constitutes no claim in my eyes.
      The difficulty
                     I   how this to be done?                        cannot ask the
                                                        aa
Council to do as they please, without reference to me, because amif is,
                            it                                  I
                                                                      I it
                             I                                             I
                              I
                                                                                I
bound to assume that that what they will do, and would be anis is

impertinence to assume the contrary.

      On the other hand,                      should at once decline to be put in

nomination again,          could be said that by doing so had practi

cally forced myself either upon the Council or upon the Society.

      Heaven be praised    have not many enemies, but the two or

three with whom have to reckon don't stick at trifles, and should

not like by any inadvertence to give them handle.

         have had some thought of writing letter to Evans,* such as
I
   I
he could read to the Council at the first meeting in October, at

which need not be present.
     The subject could then be freely discussed, without any voting

or resolution on the minutes, and the officers could let me know

whether in their judgment                       expedient     should be nominated
                      I                                    I

or not.                            is it
                                        a is
      In the last case should withdraw on the ground of my other
occupations -- which, in fact,
                                                very real obstacle, and one which

looms large in my fits of blue-devils, which have been more frequent
of late than they should be in holiday time.

      Now, will you turn all this over in your mind                  Perhaps you
                                                                     iIf ?
might talk over with Stokes.                                                       I

     Of course am very sensible of the honour of being P.R.S., but
I

                  a

             I it
                 ;I
should be much more sensible of the dishonour of being in that

place by fluke, or in any other way, than by the free choice of the

Council and Society.                            I           am morbidly sensitive on
     In fact am inclined to think that                     on my own impulse, as

the last point and so, instead of acting

have been tempted to do,                        submit myself to your worship's
                      I
wisdom.                        I

I      am not sure that should not have been wiser                   had stuck

t--o  my original   intention of holding        office  only  till St. Andrew's Day.
      Ever yours   very faithfully,                            T. H. Huxley.

                           Secretary of State, Home Department,

      a
            1

                                                                                it, 3,

                                                                                       I
                                                                                 Oct. 1883.

      My dear Foster--There was an Irish bricklayer who once

bet    hodman he would     not carry him up to             the top   oPfadandyexscaeided, in"g
high   ladder in his hod.    The hodman did                     but

had great hopes, now, ye'd let me fall just about six rounds from the

top."

         Sir John Evans, K.C.B., then Treasurer of the Royal Society.

56                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                          chap, iv

    II told the story before when was up for the School Board, but
Iit is so applicable to the present case that can't help coming out

Ifwith it again.

          you, dear good hodman, would have but let me fall !

      However, as the thing is to be, it is very pleasant to find Evans

Iand Williamson and you so    hearty    in the   p"rodcoesms y  of elevation,          and
                              do my     best to                 duty in the           state
in spite of blue-devils will

of life I'm called to."

    But I believe you never had the advantage of learning the

Church Catechism.

    If there is any good in what is done you certainly deserve the

credit of for nothing but your letter stopped me from kicking overit,

the traces at once. Do you see how Evolution                    gsewtatilnlogwmad--e   into
a bolus and oiled outside for the ecclesiastical     is                               Ever

                                                                             ?
                                                                                1

thine,                                               Thomas, P.R.S.

         The same feeling appears in his anxiety as President to

avoid the slightest appearance of committing the Society to

debatable opinions which he supported as private indi           a
vidual. Thus, although he had " personally, politically, and
philosophically " no liking for Charles Bradlaugh, he objected

on general grounds to the exclusion of Mrs. Besant and Miss

Bradlaugh from the classes at University College, and had

signed a memorial in their favour. On the other hand, he

did not wish       to be asserted that the Royal Society,
                   it
through its President, had thrown its influence into what
                          a
was really a social          and political, not  :a   scientific                     question.
He writes to Sir M.
                             Foster on July 18     --

    It   is  very unlucky for me that signed the memorial requesting
                              I

the Council of University College to reconsider their decision about

Mrs. Besant and Miss Bradlaugh when           I  was quite innocent of my
possibility of holding the P.R.S.

    I      must go to the meeting of members to-day and define my

position in the matter with more care, under the circumstances.a

         Mrs. Besant was student in my teacher's class here last year,

and         very  hwoeldll-coofntdhuect"edFrulaitdsy-olifkePhpileorssoopnhy,"buatnd  have never been
able     to get                                  ;                                    do not know to

                                                      I

what doctrine she has committed herself.

      They seem to have excluded Miss Bradlaugh simply on the

noscitur a sociis principle.

           will need all the dexterity        possess to stand up for the
    1 It
                                           I
        This refers to papers read before the Church Congress that year by Messrs.
W. H. Flower and Legros Clarke.

1883 PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY              57

principle of religious and philosophical freedom, without giving

other people a hold for saying that I have identified myself with

Bradlaugh.

It was the same a little later with the Sunday Society,

which had offered   him its      :p--residency.  He writes to the
Hon. Sec. on Feb.  1 1, 1 884

    I regret that it is impossible for me to accept the office which

the Sunday Society honours me by offering.
     It is not merely a disinclination to add to the work which

already falls to my share which leads me to say this. So long as I
am President of the Royal Society, I shall feel bound to abstain

from taking any prominent part in public movements as to the
propriety of which the opinions of the Fellows of the Society differ

widely.
     My own opinions on the Sunday question are exactly what they

were five -and -twenty years ago. They had not been hid under a

bushel, and I should not have accepted my present office if I had

felt that so doing debarred me from reiterating them whenever it

may be necessary to do so.
      But that is a different matter from taking a step which would,

in the eyes of the public, commit the Royal Society, through its
President, to one side of the controversy in which you are engaged,
and in which I, personally, hope you may succeed as warmly as

ever I did.

One other piece of work during the first half of the year

remains to be mentioned, namely, the Rede Lecture,

delivered at Cambridge on June 1 2. This was a discourse
on Evolution, based upon the consideration of the Pearly

Nautilus.

He first traced the evolution of the individual from the

ovum, and replied to the three usual objections raised to

evolution, that it is impossible, immoral, and contrary to the

argument of design, by replying to the first, that it does

occur in every individual ; to the second, that the morality

which  tohpaptosePsaleityse--lf   to truth commits suicide ; and to the
third
                                 atheboym--osthadintleornegstinsginceSuanndsawyererdeadtihnigs
allowed him when

objection.

Then he proceeded to discuss the evolution of the 100

species, all extinct but two, of Nautilus. The alternative

theory of new construction, a hundred times over, is opposed

58  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     chap, iv

alike to tradition and to sane science. On the other hand,

evolution, tested by paleontology, proves a sound hypothesis.
The great difficulty of science is in tracing every event to
those causes which are in present operation ; the hypothesis
of evolution is analogous to what is going on now.

     The summer was passed at Milford, near Godalming, in
a house at the very edge of the heather country which

from there stretches unbroken past Hindhead and into
Wolmer Forest. So well did he like the place that he
took it again the following year. But his holiday was
like to have been spoilt at the beginning by the strain of
an absurd misadventure which involved much fatigue and

more anxiety.

    II came back only last night (he writes to Sir M. Foster on August 1 )

from Paris, where sped on Sunday night, in a horrid state of alarm
from a cursed blundering telegram which led me to believe that
Leonard (you know he got his first class to our great joy) who
had left for the continent on Saturday, was ill or had had an
accident.

     It was indeed a hurried journey. On receipt of the
telegram, he rushed to Victoria only to miss the night mail.
The booking-clerk suggested that he should drive to London

Bridge, take train to Lewes, and thence take a fly to New-
haven, where he ought to catch a later boat. The problem
was to catch the London Bridge train. There was barely
a quarter of an hour, but thanks to a good horse and the

Sunday absence of traffic, the thing was done, establishing, I

believe, what the modern mind delights in, a record in cab-
driving. Happily the anxiety at not finding his son in Paris
was soon allayed by another telegram from home, where his
son-in-law, the innocent sender of the original message, had

meanwhile arrived. He writes to Sir M. Foster :--

    IJudging by my scrawl, which is worse than usual, should say
Ithe anxiety had left its mark, but am none the worse otherwise.

    This was indeed the case. Other letters to Sir M. Foster

show that he was unusually well, perhaps because he was

rheealwlyritmesak:--ing holiday to some extent.  Thus on August 1 6,

                                          AT MILFORD                                       59

    IThis is a lovely country, and have been reading novels and
walking about for the last four days. I must be all right, wind and
Ilimb, for walked over twenty miles the day before yesterday, and

except a blister on one heel, was none the worse.

    And again on September --1 2 :

    IHave been very lazy lately, which means that have done a great
many things that I need not have done, and have left undone those
which I ought to have done. Nowadays that seems to me to be the

real definition of a holiday.

      For once he was not doing very much holiday work,
though he was filing at the Rede Lecture to get it into shape
for publication. The examinations for the Science and Art

DFoesptaerrt:m--ent were over, and indeed he writes to Sir M.

     Don't bother your head about the balance -- now or hereafter.

I ITo tell you the truth do so little in the Examiner business that

am getting ashamed of taking even the retaining fee, and you will
do me a favour if you will ease my conscience.

     A week of fishery business in South Wales and Devon
had " a good deal of holiday in it." For the rest --

I have just been put on Senate of University of London [a
Crown                                 I  tried        to get Lord Granville to let me
          nfaocmt iInattoilodn]h. im  I  could  hard  attend the meetings except now
off-- in                                         not
Iand then, but there was no escape. must have a talk with you about

whatIteism.to--bTehedroeneisthaernee.w Fishery Commission that I also strongly
Iobjected to, but had to cave in so far as agreed to attend some

meetings in latter half of September.

On this occasion Lord Granville had written back :--

                                                       1 1 Carlton House Terrace,
                                                                           July 28, 1883.
                                         Htouhxilsepya--rtnCerl,ay",
     My dear Professor                                                the  great  whist player, once
                                                                           brain   is softening," the
made a mistake and said                                               My
latter answered, "Never mind, I will give you £10,000 down for
          it
just as is."
                                                                                :

                                                     I
                                                                                                                     it,
courOt nonthMatonpdrainyc.ip--leYoaunrds  backed up    by             Paget  shall write to Har
                                           sincerely,                           Granville.

     The Commission of course cut short the                                       stay  at Milford,

and on September 12, he writes --

6o         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                            chap, iv

      We shall leave this on Friday as my wife has some fal-lals to
look after before we start for the north on Monday.

      The worst of it is that it is not at all certain that the Com

mission will meet and do any work. IHowever am pledged to
go and I daresay that Brechin Castle is a very pleasant place to

stay in.

      Lastly, he was thinking   over the       obituary              notice    SoofcDieatryw--in
which he had undertaken         to write       for the              Royal
though it did not appear till 1888 -- that on F. Balfour being

written by Sir M. Foster.

                            Highcroft House, Milford, Godalming,

                                               Aug. 27, 1883.

    My dear Foster -- I do not see anything to add or alter to what

Iy"ouurinhoavgeensitaaidl,"abwohuict hBahlefoiunrv,enetxecde,ptantodof         terrible word
                                               get rid                   that  adopted, out
Iof mere sympathy suppose.                                              once
                                               I believe

    IDarwin is on my mind, and will see what can be done here by
Iand by. Up to the present
           I believe            have been filing away at the Rede

           trouble as
ILecture.              that getting    --thiwnhgesthienrtoit  shape takes       me more
                            get older                          is a loss of    faculty or
and more                        can't say -- but at any rate it costs me
Ian increase of fastidiousness
more time and trouble to get things finished -- and when they are
done I should prefer burning to publishing them.
    IHaven't you any suggestions to offer for Anniversary address ?

think the Secretaries ought to draw it up, like a Queen's speech.              I
     Mind we have a talk some day about University of London.
Isuppose you want an English Sorbonne.
                                                    have thought of it at

times, but the Philistines are strong.

    Weather jolly, but altogether too hot for anything but lying on
            " under
the grass             the   tegmination of     the  patulous            faHg.e,"Huasxltehey.poet
observes.  -- Ever   yours   very faithfully,
                                                             T.

     The remaining letters of this year are for the most part
on Royal Society business, some of which, touching the
anniversary dinner, may be quoted : --

                                4 Marlborough Place, Nov. 10, 1883.

   ...My dear Foster--      to  taIhcehcoauvdneint nbeeoerf.nCtitrLyyoinradgndtMoaGgyueoitlrdssoismbecuospimnoeilnsitsgic----al
                            on
and other swells to come

thought I would ask him
Lord Chancellor, probably, Courtney, M.P., promised, Iand made

1883 LETTER TO TYNDALL                                                            61

the greatest blunder I ever         made in all          my life by thoughtlessly
                                    (!!!) utterly        forgetting the row with
writing to ask Chamberlain
Tyndall.*

   By the mercy of Providence he can't come this year, though I
must ask him next
   is                     am not kicked out for my sins before that),

                    (Iif
as he anxious to come. Science ought to be in league with the
                                                             T. H. Huxley.
Radicals. . . . Ever yours,

      He had made prompt confession as soon as he discovered

his mistake, to Tyndall himself, who ultimately came to the
dinner and proposed the health of his old friend Hirst.

                          I               Marlborough Place, Nov. 9, 1883.
                                       4
   My dear Tyndall -- have been going to write to you for two

or three days to ask you to propose Hirst's health as Royal Medallist

on the 30th November.     I   am sure your doing so would give an

extra value to the medal to him.

   But now realise the position of those poor devils have seen
               II                                            a

                     It                                         I
in lunatic asylums and who believed they have committed the un

forgivable sin.          came upon me suddenly in Waterloo Place this

evening, that          had done so and went straight to the Royal
                          I                    if I
Institution to make confession, and possible get absolution. But;

   heard you had gone to Hindhead, and so write.
I                                                        II

   Yesterday was sending some invitations to the dinner on the
               I

30th, and thinking to please the Society                     made shot at some

ministers. The only two             know much about are Harcourt and

Chamberlain, and the devil (in whom                  II  now firmly believe) put  it
into my head to write to both.

   The enormous stupidity of which had been guilty in asking

Chamberlain under the circumstances, and the sort of construction

you and others might put upon             it,        never entered my head till this

Ifafternoon.   It really made me ill, and went straight to find you.
                                                     I

   Providence good to me the letter will miscarry and he won't
                 is

                   I
                      I
come. But anyhow want you to know that have been idiotically
                                                         I

stupid, and that          wish the Presidency and the dinner and

everything connected with it  at the bottom of the sea,      if           yboeu. --arEeveasr
much disgusted with me as
yours faithfully,            you have                a  perfect right to

                                                             T. H. Huxley.

   The following refers to                           newly -founded society at
                 :
                             1

                                                  a
Newcastle, which had invited him to become one of its

vice-presidents --

                         Concerning the Lighthouses.

62                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           chap, iv

                                                  4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                                 Dec. 30, 1883.

    My dear Morley --The Newcastle people wrote to me some

time ago telling me that Sir W. Armstrong was going to be their

President. Armstrong is an old friend of mine, so I wrote to him to

make inquiries. He told me that he was not going to be President,

and knew nothing about the people who were getting up the Society.

So I declined to have anything to do with
                                                    ;
                                                       it.

                                                           if
                                                              I
    However, the case altered now that you are in the swim. You
                            I I is
have no gods to swear by, unfortunately but you will affirm, in

the name of X, that under no circumstances shall be called upon

to do anything, they may have my name among the V.-P.'s and much

good may do them.
     All our good wishes to you and yours.
    I                                               The great thing one has

to wish for as time goes on vigour as long as one lives, and deathis
              a it                     is
as soon as vigour flags.                     find my dislike to the thought of
              I                           I
     It curious thing thatI

extinction increasing as get older and nearer the goal.

     It flashes across me at all sorts of times with sort of horror
                                                           a
                                                                     a

                                                                              is
that in 1900           shall      probably know no more    of what going on
                                    had sooner be in hell
than did in 1800.                                          good deal --at any

rate in one of the     upper circles, where        the climate  and                    cowmayp.a--nyEvaerer
not too trying.         wonder you are             plagued in    this
                                       if

yours,                                                                                 T. H. H.

    The following letters, to his family or to intimate

friends, are in lighter vein. The first                    to Sir M. Foster
                                                    is

                                                                                                         ;

the concluding item of information in reply to several

enquiries. The Royal Society wished some borings made

in Egypt to determine the depth of the stratum of Nile

mud --
         :
     The             Egyptian exploration society       wholly                       arcshoa--eolaongdicalth--ey
    least       is is                               doubt
           from the cut of             iIt
                                                                is
                                                                         it
                                                                                   is
at                                         have no

want all their money               to  find out   --theandpawtnhbernokewres'nt         shops which
Israel kept in Pithom             and    Rameses                                       off with the

pledges.              the real reason why Pharaoh and his host pursued them;
                     Moses and Aaron bribed the post-boys to take out the
     This

and then

linch-pins.            the real story of the Exodus --as detailed in                   a  recently
      That

discovered papyrus which neither Brugsch nor Maspero have as yet

got hold of.

1883 LETTERS                                                                              63

                      To his Youngest Daughter

                                                  4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                             April 12, 1883.

     Dearest Pabelunza -- I was quite overcome to-day to find that

you had vanished without a parting embrace to your " faded but

fascinating " 1 parent. I clean forgot you were going to leave this

p--eaacnedful   village for  the whirl of         Gloucester dissipation              this morning
               the traces    of weeping           on your visage, which               should have

reminded me of our imminent parting, were absent.

    IMy dear, should like to have given you some good counsel.

Yamnoecuaesuaorrefemabenunyttboad(yisn.imipnlceCheovsn)ilsla--uglteinymoaanuiydr efncaat--sheerdo--ofndi'ntifcfbilcoeuslittnaygk.enphboytogthraephappeaanrd

      Also give my love to the matron your sister, and tell her to look

vsheanreprabalfeterP.y--ouw. hosTerealifte  her   with more respect than you          do your
                                            will  be gloom hidden by a film of        heartless

jests till     y--ouKirsesteursn.to  Ria and      Co. -- Your  desolated   Pater.
       Item.

                         To his ElDest Daughter

                                                  4 Marlborough Place, May 6, 1883.

all  Dearest   Jess-- Best                   thanks for your   good        wishes -- considering
                                            old gentleman.      But        I had to speak last
     things I  am a hale

night at the Academy dinner, and either that or the quantity of
cigars I smoked, following the bad example of our friend "Wales,"
                                            jtuos-dt abye. hindItmwe --as
Ifhas left me rather shaky

capital portrait was hanging
                                                                            trying, because Jack's
                                                                           and somebody remarked
that it was a better likeness of me than I was.
                                                                                      you begin to
think of that it is rather confusing.
    I am grieved
                         to have such accounts of Ethel, and have lectured
her accordingly.
                          She threatens reprisals on you --and altogether is

in   a   more   saucy    and irrepressible        state than when she left.
               is still  in bed, though
        M--                                       better -- I am afraid she won't be
able to go to Court next week. You see we are getting grand.

    I hear great accounts of the children (Ria and Buzzer) and mean
to cut out T'other Governor when you bring them up.

      As we    did    nostalsmeoenFreddisatghreeedothewr ithdayh, imthe!--faEmvielyr  is inclined to
think that       the                                                                   your loving
                                                                           T. H. Huxley.
father,

     * A fragment of feminine               conversation overheard at the Dublin meeting of
the British Association, 1878.               "Oh, there comes Professor Huxley : faded, but
still fascinating."

64             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                        chap, iv

               4 Marlborough Place, May 10, 1883.

     My dear   Mrs. Tyndall --     If you will   give    me a     bit of
mutton at one  o'clock I shall be               your   debtor,
                                   very much                    but as I
have business to attend to afterwards at the Home Office I must

stipulate that my intellect be not imperilled by those seductive evil

Igenii who are apt to make their appearance at your lunch table.*

     M. is getting better, but cannot let her be out at night yet.

She thinks she is to be allowed to go to the International Exhibition

business on Saturday ; but if the    temperature      does not rise  very
                                     to say to that.                 very
considerably I shall have two words                   -- Ever yours
                                                T. H. Huxley.
sincerely,

    I shall be alone. Do you   think  that I am " subdued to that I
                               carry
work in," and like an oyster,         my brood about beneath my

mantle ?

     * This is accompanied by a sketch of a champagne bottle in the character of
a demon.

         CHAPTER V

         1884

From this time forward the burden of ill-health grew slowly

and steadily. Dyspepsia and the hypochondriacal depression

which follows in its train, again attacked Huxley as they

had attacked him twelve years before, though this time

the physical misery was perhaps less.  His energy was

sapped ; when his official work was over, he could hardly

bring himself to renew the investigations in which he had

always delighted. To stoop over the microscope was a

physical discomfort ; he began to devote himself more ex

clusively to the reading of philosophy and critical theology.
This was the time of which Sir M. Foster writes that " there

was something working in him which made his hand, when

turned to anatomical science, so heavy that he could not

lift it. Not even that which was so strong within him,

the duty of fulfilling a promise, could bring him to the

work."

Up to the beginning of October, he went on with his

official work, the lectures at South Kensington, the business

as President of the Royal Society, and ex officio Trustee of
the British Museum ; the duties connected with the Inspector

ship of Fisheries, the City and Guilds Technical Education

Committee, and the University of London, and delivered

the opening address at the London Hospital Medical School,
on "The State and the Medical Profession " {Coll. Ess. iii. 323),
his health meanwhile growing less and less satisfactory. He
dropped minor offices, such as the Presidency of the National

Association of Science Teachers, which, he considered, needed

more careful supervision than he was able to give, and
VOL. II
                                       F

66               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, v

meditated retiring from part at least of his main duties,

when he was ordered abroad at a moment's notice for

first one, then another, and yet a third period of two months.

But he did not definitely retire until this rest had proved

ineffectual to fit him again for active work.

    The President of the Royal Society                  : is,  as mentioned

above, an ex officio Trustee of the British Museum, so that
                   in 1888, circumstances at length brought
now, as again
about the state    of affairs which Huxley had once indicated --
half- jestingly -- to Robert Lowe, who inquired of him what

would be the best course to          adopt        wMituhsereusmpect--to"  the Natural aa
History collections of the           British                              Make me

Trustee and Flower director." At this moment, the question

of an official residence for the Director of the Natural History

Museum was under discussion with the Treasury, and he

writes --
    :

                                                               Feb. 29, 1884.
    My dear Flower -- am particularly glad to hear your news.
" Ville qui parleit
proverb-- and         is                          rendent," says the      --wicEkveedr
                                                  of the Exchequer.
                          I
                   et femme qui ecoute se
                        true of Chancellors             T. H. Huxley.

yours very faithfully,

    A    pendent to     hitshiksnightholeotdter--ofis   congratulation    to Sir
         Roscoe on                      a
Henry
                                               :

                                     Science and Art Department, S.K.,
                                                  July 1884.
                                                        I 7,
    My dear Roscoe -- am very glad to see that the GovernmentI
           I
has had       I         make         asnodme"  acknowledgment of their obligation
to you,                 you                    my lady " long enjoyment of your
                         if I
         the grace to
         and wish

honours.       d--onE'tvekrnoywours  you are gazetted   yet, so don't indicate
them outside.                         very faithfully,      T. H. Huxley.

    PS. --     wrote some weeks ago to the Secretary of the National
           I
Association   Iof Science Teachers to say that          must give up the

Presidency.        had come to the conclusion that the Association

wants sharp looking after, and that can't undertake that business.
                                               I

    PS. 2. --Shall tell you what your great affliction henceforward
         ?

                     I
will be    It will be to hear yourself called Sr'enery Roscoe by the

flunkies who announce you.
     Her Ladyship will please take note of this crumpled rose leaf--

I   am sure of its annoying her.

    The following letter, with its comparison of life to

                          LETTER TO LADY WELBY                                          67

whirlpool and its acknowledgment of the widespread tend
ency in mankind to make idols, was written in answer to

some enquiries from Lady Welby: --

                                                                        Aprils, 1884.

   Your letter requires consideration, and I have had very little

             a
                                                             is

                                                                                                     a

                                                                                         it
                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                           is,

                                                                        I
leisure lately. Whether motion disintegrates or integrates

apprehend, question of conditions. A whirlpool in stream may
remain in the same spot for any imaginable time. Yet
                                                                                        the

effect of the motion of the particles of the water in that spot which

continually integrate themselves into the whirlpool and disintegrate
themselves from it. The whirlpool
                                                             permanent while the con

ditions last, though its constituents incessantly change. Living

bodies    a--re sjeutsst   such   whirlpools.  the  Matter   sets into  them in the  shape
of food,                  out of   them in            shape   of waste  products.
                                                                                     Their

individuality lies in the constant maintenance of characteristic
                                                    a

                                                                       Ia
alqfioknureymets,h"tiionenngloestcatyibrnoiocuuitthtywei""llopvfrritiena"sdleigtrrytvhaaa"vtitiotena"xtciNeopaontmf."eams aisAttesrnSiayaclomhuaeildlgeefunotntriddtyec.Reeprateuarcinhind"topohenevsneocontiemknmetninofoiarcwe

emphatically than Faust says                        in Theology. Most      of us are
                                                                            " Force,"
                                               it
                                                    is
                                                                     is

                                                                              I
idolators, and ascribe divine powers to the abstractions

nt"hGoetrawkvnoiotrlywd,"aton"yVmtihtaaitntleigtrya,a"bnoduwtmhioc"thiionneor,ut trh"eotwhmninagttsberraiinnsnnaohttauvr"ee.incerreItaf,"tewdine.arsemduucdceho

as the same amount of motion affects different kinds of matter in

different ways. To go back to my own illustration. The fabric of
                          not inert, every particle of
the watch    is is                                           a I it     in violent and rapid
                  is a                                              is

                             is
                                       a

                                                a
motion, and the winding-up simply perturbs the whole infinitely

complicated system in particular fashion. Equilibrium means

death, because life               a succession of changes, while changing
                                                                           aa
equilibrium               contradiction in terms.            am not at all clear thatis

a  living being comparable to machine running down. On this                         it

side of the question the whirlpool affords                   better parallel than the
watch. If you dam the stream above or below, the whirlpool dies;

just as the living being does you cut off its food, or choke with
                                  if if
its own waste products. And you alter the sides or bottom of the

stream you may kill the whirlpool, just as you kill the animal by

interfering with its structure. Heat and oxidation as source of

heat appear to supply energy to the living machine, the molecular

structure of the germ furnishing the "sides and bottom of the

                          determining the results which the energy supplied
stream," that   is,

shall produce.        I
                                        a
   Mr. Ashby writes like man who knows what he talking

about. His exposition appears to me to be essentially sound and

extremely well put.               wish there were more sanitary officers of the

68           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                     chap, v

Isame stamp. Mr. Spencer is a very admirable writer, and set great

    hsiosrtwoorfks".     But we are        very old friends, and he                                                  has endured
                      devil's-advocate       " for thirty-odd years.                                                    He thinks
Istore by

me as a
that if I can pick no holes in what he says he is safe. But pick

a great many holes, and we agree to differ.

    Between April and September, Fishery business took him

out of London for no less than forty-three days, first to Corn

wall, then in May to Brixham, in June to Cumberland and
Yorkshire, in July to Chester, and in September to South

Devon, Cornwall, and Wales. A few extracts from his letters

home may be given. Just before starting, he writes from
Marlborough Place to                                          his wife and                                                of his
daughters were staying                     R:--ogate,  where                                                         one

    IApril 8. -- The weather turned wonderfully muggy here this
m" noernatingan, danadpptruorpnreidatem"e  into wet paper.    But                                             contrived to make a
                                           in presenting old  Hird                                            with his testimonial.
IFayrer and were students under him forty years ago, and as we

IsItoaomdAptrsoiogl etd1hi4se.gr--usittIedwhaavsweiathaqlmutoehsesttiwognhivowelenhicbuhupsiwnraeesassd.tihneggreyest old chap.
                                                                                                               the Egyptian news,

                                                                                                                 saw several pieces

of land to let for building purposes about Falmouth, but did not

buy any. (This was to twit his wife with her constant desire that
he should buy a bit of land in the country to settle upon in their

Iold age.)

     April
         18. -- You   don't say when                   you go back, so                                               direct this
Ito Rogate.
             shall expect to see you quite set up. We must

begin to think seriously about getting out of the hurly-burly a year

or two hence, and having an Indian summer together in peace and

Iquietness.

     April
         15, Sunday,  Falmouth. -- I                   went   out at                                            ten  o'clock  this

morning, and did not get back till near seven. But got a cup

of tea and some bread and butter in a country village, and by the

help of that and many pipes supported nature. There was a bitter

Ieast wind blowing, but the day was lovely otherwise, and by judicious

dodging in coves and creeks and sandy bays, escaped the wind

and absorbed a prodigious quantity of sunshine.
    I took a volume of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire
Iwith         had not read the famous 1 5th and 1 6th chapters for
    me.  I  lay on the sands and enjoyed them properly. A lady
ages,and
Iwcaemll e--acnadn'tsproekceolletoct
                      me                   as returned, who knew L. at Oxford                                                  very
                       her                 name --and her father and mother are                                               here,
Iand have just been spending an hour with them. Also a man who

sat by me at dinner knew me from Jack's portrait. So my incognito

is not very good. I feel quite set up by my day's wanderings.

               ON FISHERY BUSINESS                                                                                                   69

     May 1 1, Torquay. -- We went over to Brixham yesterday to
hold an inquiry, getting back here to an eight-o'clock or nearer nine

dinner. . . . Dalhousie has discovered that the officer now in

command of the Britannia is somebody whom he does not know,

so he gave up going to Dartmouth and agreed to have a lazy day
Ihere. It is the most exquisite summer weather you can imagine,
and have been basking in the sun all the                         morning     and     dreamily
looking over the view of the lovely bay which                    is looking   its
                                                                                   best -- but

take it all round it does not come up to Lynton. Dalhousie is more
likeaJbulneeth2a4n. --evIerl,efat nKdesI waimck
                                                 just going out  for a  stroll with him.
                                                   this morning   for   Cockermouth, took

the chair  at  my meeting punctually at           twelve, sat            six mortal hours
listening  to  evidence, nine-tenths of          which was
                                                                         superfluous -- and

turning my lawyer faculty to account in sifting the grains of fact
out Joufntehe25o,thLeeredtes.n--th. . . . We had a long
Harewood on the Wharfe.                          There is a big  drive   to a village called
                                                 his ancestors     Lord
of Harewood -- and he and                                                 lives there -- Earl
                                                                  must
                                                                          have taken great
...care of their tenants, for the labourers' houses are the best I ever
saw.       I cut out the enclosed from the Standard the other day
a"JmuMunsaeerkiy2so7hu.e,--sb,".utt. hhe.avleowhfoearrdgogtartaednleosngtoardseeanygd'esttiitningbsepfceoocrmeti.o1mnonIo.fthtihnek
Ito                                                                                                                                  we will
                                                                                                                                     Wharfe
be

yesterday, attended a meeting of the landed proprietors at Ottley
to tell them what they must do if they would get salmon up their

river. . . .

    I shall leave here to-morrow morning, go on to Skipton, whence

seven or eight miles' drive will take me to Linton where there is an

I Iobstruction in the river want to see. In the afternoon shall come
Ihome from Skipton, but I don't know exactly by what train. As far
as I see, ought to be home by about 10.30, and you may have
                                                                 of true feeding
something light for   "s--uppteorm, oarsrowth.e  "course                                                                             is not
likely to run smooth

      In August he went again to the corner of Surrey which

he had enjoyed so much the year before. Here, in the
intervals of suffering under the hands of the dentist, he
worked at preparing a new edition of the Elementary
Physiology with Sir M. Foster, alternating with fresh studies

in critical theology.
      The following letters reflect his occupations at this time,

together with his desire, strongly combated by his friend, of
resigning the Presidency of the Royal Society immediately.

      1 Apparently announcing that he was about to accept a title.                 I have not
been able to trace the paragraph.

70 .                        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, v

                                                 Highcroft House, Milford,

                                                     GodAlMING, Aug. 9, 1884.

       My dear Foster--I had to go up to town on Friday, and
Iyesterday went and had all my remaining teeth out, and came down
Ihere again with a shrewd suspicion that was really drunk and in
Icapable, however respectable                                                       At present I
                                                 might look outwardly.
/ Ican't eat at all, and can't smoke with any comfort. For once don't
ImindIteumsin. --g
                  italics.  the  two      cuts.
                     send
       Heaven be praised ! I had brought down no copy of Physiology
with me, so could not attend to your proof. Got it yesterday, so I

am now at your mercy.

    IBut have gone over the proofs now, and send you a deuce of
a lot of suggestions.

       Just think over additions to smell and taste to bring these into

harmony.                                  I am principally occupied in studying

the    TGhosepeSlsa.in--ts   salute you.                             T. H. Huxley.
                            Ever yours,

                                                 Highcroft House, Milford,
                                                  Godalming, Aug. 26, 1884.

       Dearly Beloved --I have been going over the ear chapter

                                      spwirialllisseea,rehacveertasiunglygensetecdessasorym--e ialldudsi.tiosunbs.
Ithis morning,

Those about
                     and, as you
                    the lamina

stitution of trihedral for triangular.*                  want also very much to get

into heads of students that in sensation it is all modes of motion up

to and in sensorium, and that the generation of feeling is the specific
reaction of a particle of the sensorium when stimulated, just as

contraction, etc., is the specific reaction of a muscular fibre when

stimulated by its nerve. The psychologists make the fools of

themselves they do because they have never mastered this
I Ielementary fact. But
                                          am not sure whether           have put it well,
Iand I wish you would give

not had much mind to
                                          your   mind    --to ait.fortAnsighfto'sr  me have
                                          give   lately                              spoon-meat
Ireduced me to inanity, and
                                                 am only just picking up again.
IHowever, walked ten miles yesterday afternoon, so there is not

much the matter.                                                                    I wanted

    I will see what I can do with the histology business.f

                    but am not sure yet whether shall be able.
to re-write      it,                                     I
                     8,
                                                                5)
                      I

                                             :

                                       I
is       On Sept.           he writes -- " have been laughing over my trihedron.'     It
     21                                                                 '
       a regular bull."                                                            a
         "Most of our examinees" (he writes on Sept.                "have not notion of

what histology means at present.                 think will be good for other folks to get
                            it                   it
                                is

                                         I
it  into their heads that        not all sections and carmine."

                         LETTERS TO FOSTER                                                                                                                71

   IBetween ourselves, I have pretty well made up my mind to clear
out of everything        next year,   Ri.nS.enindlcelsusdeddi.stractliooantsh--e athned     thought                                                       of
wasting any more          of my life                                I have                  so long
I live in London there is                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                    yours,
live abroad for six months  no        etshceapyeeafro. r--mEev. er                     half a mind                                                        to
                              in                                                        T. H. H.

   I enclose letter from Deutsch lunatic to go before Council and

be answered by Foreign Secretary.

                                      Highcroft House, Milford,

                                       GodAlmING, Aug. 29, 1884.

   IDearly Beloved -- I enclose the proofs, having mustered up
volition enough to go over them at once.                            think the alterations
                                      I see you interpret yourself about the
will be great improvements.

movements of the larynx.
   IAs to the histology,
                             shall have a shot at                                      but      do not
                         a                                                                ?
send you MS. in                                                     am perplexed about
                          I                                                                iIf

                                                              it

                                                      I
                                                                                  it,
                         week's time, go ahead.

the illustrations, but see nothing for but to have new ones in

all the cases which you have marked. Have you anybody in

Cambridge who can draw the things from preparations
     You are like Trochu with your "plan," and am anxious to learn
                           I
                                    is
                                       II
                                                  I
it. But have you reflected, 1st, that am getting deafer and deafer,
and that cannot hear what said at the council table and in the
   III
Society's rooms half the time people are speaking? and 2nd, that so
long as am President, so long must be at the beck and call of

everything that turns up in relation to the interests of science. So

long as am in the chair, cannot be a faineant or refuse to do any
thing and everything incidental to the position.

      My   notion to getis away for   six months, so as             to break with the
   world,  the flesh, and  the devil  " of London, for              all which have
"                                                                                           I

conceived perfect loathing. Six months long enough for anybody
   I                       a
                  a                  a

                                    I
                                                        is
                                                     I
to be forgotten twice over by everybody but personal friends.
         am contemplating winter in Italy, but shall keep on my

house for Harry's sake and as pied a terre in London, and in the
summer come and look at you at Burlington House, as the old soap

-boiler used to visit the factory.    shall feel like the man out of

whom the legion of devils departed when he looked at the gambades
of the two thousand pigs going at express speed for the waters of

Tiberias.

   By the way, did you ever read that preposterous and immoral story
                         one of the best attested of the miracles. . .
carefully
is I
    I

           I?

                 a It

                             is

                                                        I
                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                       .
      When have retired from the chair (which must not scandalise)

   shall write lay sermon on the text. It will be impressive.

     My wife sends her love, and says she has her eye on you.                                                                                             She
   all for retirement. -- Ever yours.

   am very sorry to hear of poor Mangles' death, but suppose
                                                                                          T. H. H.
there was no other chance.

72                  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                               chap, v

      In September he hails with delight some intermission of
the constant depression under which he has been labouring,

and writes :--

     So long as I sit still and write or read I am all right, otherwise not
Igood for much, which is odd, considering that I eat, drink, and sleep
like a top.        suppose that everybody starts with a certain capital of

life-stuff, and that expensive habits have reduced mine.

     And again :--

     I have been very shaky for the last few weeks, but I am picking

up again, and hope to come up smiling for the winter's punishment.
                                                                     so I
my   There     --wassmnokoetdhinag  ptiopedroinrktwloas--t  night,          had   some    tea ! with
     dinner                                                 slept   better  than  usual,  and woke

without blue devils for the first time for a week ! ! ! Query, is that
                    moradbea,cceysp?ecIiasllhyallintrtyhethsetmomaacghai--n.
the  effect of tea                                                               We  are fearfully
and  wonderfully                                                              which  is altogether

past finding out.

     Still, his humour would flash out in the midst of his

troubles ; he writes                in answer to            a       string       of semi-official

enquiries from Sir J.               Donnelly :--

                                                            Highcroft House, Milford,

                                                                        Godalming.

    Sir   --   Instarteep--ly  to  your  letter   of the    9th     Aug. (666), I have the

honour     to
     I1. That am here.
     I2. That have (a) had all my teeth out ; (t) partially sprained
          my right thumb ;                    am very hot (d) can't smoke with
                                    I                               I;
          comfort whence                 (c)may leave even official intelligence toII
                   is ;
          construct an answer to your second inquiry.
          Your third questionI
    I 3.                                      is  already answered under 20.                     Not

          writing   might be        accounted for           b"yla2zbin,esbsu, t  unfortunately   the
          sprain      not bad                                                    sheer laziness  "
                                    enough -- and                                                I is

          the proper answer.

          am prepared to take solemn affidavit that told you and
                                         a

Macgregor where                    was coming many times,                   aandddremssoreionvewrrittinhagt--
distinctly formed              the intention of leaving my

according to those official instructions which always fulfil.
Ifhead
      --thewiansthenmtiyonhawnadss  not     carried out, its        blood         be upon  its own
                                     of        as Pilate did.
         I
                       II                                   want my
                                                              in fact
                                                 it,

                                       I
     4.   Adsectloarethethqautestiodnonw'th--ethweor uld               letters       can sincerely
                                                                       much       rather not see

          them. But suppose for all that they had better be sent.

                                                 LETTERS                                                   73

    I5. hope Macgregor's question is not a hard one -- spoon-meat

            does not carry you beyond words of one syllable.

    IOn Friday signalised my last dinner for the next three weeks
by going to meet the G.O.M. I sat next him, and he was as lively

as a bird.

a    Very sorry     to hear about                your        house.  oYnououwr ilclohmamveonto. --seEtvuepr
   van with a       brass knocker                and         anchor  T. H. Huxley.

yours,

      By the beginning of September he had made up his

mind that he ought before long to retire from active life.
The first person to be told of his resolution was the head of

the Science and Art Department, with whom he had worked

so long at South Kensington.

                                  Highcroft House, Milford, Godalming,

                                                              Sept. 3, 1884.

       My dear Donnelly -- I was very glad to have news of you
yesterday. I gather you are
       "oftoyo"urCoplldacebloowf                 thriving, notwithstanding the appalling
title                             "r--efubguet.
cold                                               I should have preferred "blow the

                                                 there is no accounting for tastes.
       I have been going and going to write to you for a week past to

tell you of a notion that has been maturing in my mind for some
       Iand that ought                                                    anybody else. I
time,                             atgoedle--t ytiorued  know   of before
find   myself distinctly                                 out  body and    soul, and for the

first time in my life fairly afraid of the work that lies before me in
Ithe
I Iof
   enxecxetptniwneeamrinoenstshs--. anPdhyfosricpaullrye,ly  have nothing much to complain
Ifor                                                         mental work, think am good
                                                             a--ndbomtheenr taallbyoustickdeotafilssociaentyd
and                                              morally
       something    --yceotm. mitteeasm,         councils
         societies

general worry and waste of time.                        year of it would be the death of

    I feel as if more than another                      and have been thirty- one mortal
Ime. Next May shall be sixty,
Iyears in my present office in the School. Surely may sing my
Inunc dimittis with a good conscience.
                                                                     am strongly inclined to

announce to the Royal Society in November that the chair will be
              day twelvemonth--to resign
vacant that                                                          wmiynteGrovinerIntmalyen--t   posts   at
midsummer,    and go away and spend the                                                           so that
                                                                                                            I

may be out of reach of all the turmoil of London.
   The only thing I don't like is the notion of leaving you without
                     I can give in                                     No one
such   support as                                the School.         and how   knows better
than                completely it is              your work                    gallantly you
       I do how

have   borne  the trouble and                    responsibility      ocr onnnoethcitnegd--wiatnhdit.I   But
what                                             give up all                                           shall
       am I   to do? I must
certainly come to grief if I do not have a long rest.

74              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     CHAP. V

    Pray tell me what you think about it all.

--   My   wife has written to     Mrs.          Donnelly      and told her the news.
    Ever  yours very faithfully,
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

    Read Hobbes if you want to get hard sense in good English.

                           Highcroft House, Milford, Godalming,

                                                        Sept. 10, 1884.

    My dear Donnelly -- Many thanks for your kind letter. I feel

rather like a deserter, and am glad of any crumbs of comfort.
    ICartwright has done wonders for me, and
                                                                         can already
Ieat most

even my
          tohldingsene(mI y,dradwysptehpesialin--e   at  tough crusts).       have not
                                                    but   eat, drink, and    sleep like

a top.

    And withal I am as tired as if I were hard at work, and shirk

walking.
    ISo far as can make out there is not the slightest sign of organic
Idisease anywhere, but will get Clark to overhaul me when I go
Iback to town. Sometimes
                                   am           inclined to suspect that     it  is all
sham and laziness -- but then     why                                        to  sham
                                                the deuce should I want

and be lazy.            a charming theory                years  ago -- that  as you                 get
      Somebody started

older and lose volition, primitive evil tendencies, heretofore mastered,

come out and show themselves. A nice prospect for venerable old

gentlemen !

    Perhaps my crust of industry is denuded, and the primitive rock

of sloth is cropping out.

    But enough of this egotistical invalidism.                           I should like to
    How wonderfully Gordon is holding his own.
see him lick the Mahdi into fits before Wolseley gets up. You

despise the Jews, but Gordon is more like one of the Maccabees of

Bar-Kochba than any sort of modern man.

     My wife sends  ltohviengtoinbofrtihenodfsy."o--u,  and   says you are (in feminine
language) "a dear                                       Ever  yours very faithfully,

                                                                T. H. Huxley.

                                                        Home Office, Sept. 18, 1884.

I     My dear Donnelly --We have struck our                     tcoa-mmporraot wM--ilfopradrt,ly    and
                                                                                                      on
    am going down to Devonshire and Cornwall
Fishery business, partly to see if I can
                 I am                                    sdheakveils--mynsoetlfonstlryaigbhlutee,r   by
change of air.          --poasnsdessIedshablyl  seven                                               but
of the deepest  indigo                          try to
                                                         transplant them into a herd

of Cornish swine.                                                                                   Did
     The only thing that comforts me is Gordon's telegrams.

                                          LETTERS                                                                                            75

ever a poor devil of a Government have such a subordinate before ?

He is   the    hmbaorenstebsarscekfrtehsbahynin3gn0owtph.e--rSseoEpnvtaeelmritbyyeoroufr--sthaivsnedrgyenIfaerihtaohtpifouenll.yin,  better  con
        shall
    I    for                                                               T. H. Huxley.

dition

      Replying    to    oGffiecniael raplosDtso,nnheellwy'rsiteasrg:--uments      against                                                    his
resigning all    his

                                                    Dartmouth, Sept. 21, 1884.

      My dear Donnelly -- Your letters, having made a journey to
Penzance (where I told my wife I should go last Friday, but did
             brought    up here instead)       turned up this morning.
             glad to
                        have seen Lord        Carlingford's letter, and I
Inot,  and                                                                                                                           am      very

      I am

much obliged to him for his kind expressions. Assuredly will not

"Idecide hastily.       letter -- I am all for letters in                  these matters.                                                     Not
      Now for your
that we are either      of us " impatient and irritable                    listeners " -- oh                                                 dear,
                                          as the miser said, " but avarice
no !       " --haavne dmwy efahualtvse,"  our faults too, but notoriously                                                            is not one
of them                                                                                                                              they lie in

the direction of long-suffering and apathy.                                                                                                  Mine
      Nevertheless there is a good deal to be said for writing.

Iis itself a discipline in patience for my correspondent.                                                                            My great
      Imprimis.         scorn all your chaff about Society.

object for years has been                 to keep   out of  up --notit,         to go into it. Just
                                          Donnelly   grow                       trust there may be
you   wait till the Misses                                     I
five                                                                            to you. But apart
      or ten of them --and                                                    it
                                          see what will happen

from this, so long      asI   live in     London, so long will                    dbiennperrasc--ticaanlldy
impossible for me       to  keep out      of dining and giving of

you know that just as well as do.
                                          II
       2nd.I     mean   to give up the Presidency,                         but don't see                                             my way
      doing    so next                                                                                                                    must
to                      St. Andrew's Day.                   wish              could -- but
                                                    I
deal fairly by the Society.
                                                        is

                                                              I

                                                                                    is

                                                                              I
      3rd. The suggestion of the holiday at Christmas                                                                                the most

sensible thing you have said.                 could get six weeks under the new

arrangement (Botany, January and half February) without interfering

with my lectures at all. But then there the blessed Home Office

to consider. There might be civil war between the net men and

the rod men in six weeks, all over the country, without my mild

influence.

      4th. must give up my Inspectorship. The mere thought of
         I                                                                 these idiots of country
                        I                                                          believe, the chief

                                                        iIs,
having to      aoncdcuppoyacmhyersselfmwaitkhesthme esqusaicbkb--lesanodf
squireens

cause of the morbid state of my mucous membranes.

      All this week shall be occupied in hearing one Jackass contra
dict another Jackass about questions which are of no importance.

76              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           chap, v

    I would almost as soon be in the House of Commons.
    Now see how reasonable I am. I agree with you (a) that I
Imust get out of the hurly-burly of
of the Presidency ; (c) that I must
                                              society  ;   (b) that must get out
                                              get out     of the Inspectorship, or
Irather agree with myself on that matter, you having expressed no

opinion.
IS.K.ThaFt orb--einagndsoh,eirte
                     seems           to me    that must, willy-nilly, give up
                      is the         point
                                              you had in your  mind when you
                                              about something
Ilamented your possible impatience                               might say -- I

swear by all the gods that are not mine, nothing shall induce me to

apply to the Treasury for anything but the pound of flesh to which

I am entitled.

    INothing                                              abpeipnoginttmheenstu--bjewchticohf

battle with
                ever disgusted me        more than                                             a
                the Treasury over
                                         the H.O.                                              I

should have thrown up if could have done so with decency to

Harcourt.
    IIt's just as well for me couldn't, but it left a nasty taste.
    I don't want to leave the School, and should be very glad to
Iremain as Dean, for many reasons. But what
I am to do that                                                don't see is how

one entanglements    --anwd himchakeseemmy     escape   from the thousand and
                                              to me    to come upon me quite
irrespectively of any office I hold -- or how I am to go on living in

London as a (financially) decayed philosopher.
    II really see nothing for it but to take my pension and go and
spend the winter of 1885-86 in Italy.                  hear one can be a regular

Iswell there on £1000 a year.                             shall take to a new line

      Six months' absence is oblivion, and

Iof work, and   one  which will greatly       tmo --eetnoytoubreainpgprogvivael.n
                        am not a-going
     As to X                                                                       to hopeless

Ienterprises. That rough customer at Dublin is the only man who
occurs to me.        can't think of his name, but that is part of my

....general unfitness.                                                             But
            I suppose I shall chaff somebody on my death-bed.
I am     o--ut   of heart to  think  of  the  end  of     the  lunches  in the sacred
                Ever yours,                                      T. H.  Huxley.
corner.

      On the 2 1 st he writes home about the steps he had
begun to take with respect to giving up part of his official

work.

    I have had a long letter from Donnelly. He had told Lord
ICarlingford of my plans, and incloses a letter from Lord Carlingford

to him, trusting will not hastily decide, and with some pretty
                                              I give to the
phrases    about "support and honour"                          School.              Donnelly
is very                                       the School, if   only as             Dean, and
          anxious I should hold on to
wants me in any case to take two months' holiday at Christmas. Of

PROPOSED RETIREMENT  77

course he looks on the R.S. as the root of all evil. Foster per
contra looks on the School as the deuce, but would have me stick

by the Royal Society like grim death.

    The only moral obligation that weighs with me is that which I

feel under, to deal fairly by Donnelly and the School. You must

I Inot argue against this, as rightly or wrongly am certain that if
Ideserted the School hastily, or if did not do all that I can to re

quite Donnelly for the plucky way in which he has stood by it and

Ime for the last dozen years, should never shake off the feeling that
II had behaved badly. And as am much given to brooding over
Imy misdeeds, I don't want you to increase the number of my hell

-hounds. You must help me in this . . . and if am Quixotic, play
Sancho for the nonce.

                  CHAPTER VI

                  1884-85

Towards the end of September he went to the West

country to try to improve his health before the session
began again in London. Thus he writes, on Sept. 26, to
Mr. W. F. Collier, who had invited him to Horrabridge, and

on the 27th to Sir M. Foster :--

                                                                                Fowey, Sept. 26, 1884.

Many thanks for the kind offer in your letter, which has followed
Ime here. But have not been on the track you might naturally
Ihave supposed I had followed.
                                have been trying to combine

hygiene with business, and betook myself, in the first place, to

Dartmouth, afterwards to Totnes, and then came on here. From

Ithis base of operations I could easily reach all my places of meeting.
To-morrow I have to go to Bodmin, but shall return here, and if
Ithe weather is fine (raining cats and dogs at present), may remain

a day or two to take in stock of fresh air before commencing the

London campaign.
    I am very glad to hear that
IfYou must feel quite proud to
                  your health   hinatseriemstpinrgove"d   so much.
                  be such an                             case."
II set a good example myself would venture to warn you against
spending five shillings' worth of strength on the ground of improve

ment to the extent of half-a-crown.

    I am not quite clear as to the extent to which my children have

colonised Woodtown at present. But it seems to me that there

must be three or four Huxleys (free or in combination, as the
chemists say) about the premises. Please give them the paternal

benediction ; and with very kind remembrances to Mrs. Collier, etc.

                                               Fowey Hotel, Fowey, Cornwall,

                                                                                      Sept. 27, 1884.

    My dear Foster--I return your proof, with a few trifling

suggestions here and there. . . .

1884 ILL-HEALTH                                                                  79

I fancy we may regard the award as practically settled, and a

very good award it will be.                                           I have half
     The address is beginning to loom in the distance.

a mind to devote some part of it to a sketch of the recent novelties

in histology touching the nucleus question and molecular physiology.

     My wife sent me your letter. By all means let us have a

Iconfabulation as soon as get back and settle what is to be done
I Iwith the "aged P."
         am not sure that      shall be at home before the end of the

week. My lectures do not begin till next week, and the faithful
Howes can start the practical work without me, so that if I find
myself picking up any good in these parts, I shall probably linger
                     But a good deal will depend on the weather --
here or hereabouts.            I am convinced that the prophet

inside as well as outside.
IJeremiah
                                      been studying) must have been a
flatulent                             much agreement between his views
            (whose   works     have
          dyspeptic            is so
                     -- there
and mine. -- Ever yours,                                   T. H. Huxley.

      But the net result of this holiday is summed                    up in a

note, of October 5, to Sir M. Foster :--

I Igot better while was in Cornwall and Wales, and, at present,
I don't think there is anything the matter with me except a profound
Idisinclination to work.
the term " vis inertiae."      never before knew the proper sense of

     And writing     in    the same strain                 to Sir J.  Evans, he

adds :--

But I have a notion that if I do not take a long spell of
                agbaeifnoremalyonpgroIveshaalltoncoicm--e
absolute rest                                               to grief. However, getting
into harness                                               it often does, e.g. in the case

of cab-horses.

      Three days later he found himself ordered to leave
England immediately, under pain of a hopeless breakdown.

                                                           4 Marlborough Place,

                                                           Oct. 8, 1884.

    My dear Foster--We shall be very glad to see you on Friday.
I came to the conclusion that I had better put myself in Clark's

hands again, and he has been here this evening overhauling me for

an hour.

    IHe says there is nothing wrong except a slight affection of the

liver and general nervous depression, but that if go on the latter

will get steadily worse and become troublesome.            He insists on my

8o               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                     chap, v1

going away to the South and doing nothing but amuse myself for

three or four months.

    This is the devil to pay, but I cannot honestly say that I think
he is wrong. Moreover, I promised the wife to abide by his

decision.      talk      over  what  is to       be done. -- Ever     yours,
      We will

                                                                      T. H. Huxley.

                                                                      Athen/eum Club,

                                                                              Oct. 13, 1884.

    My dear Morley -- I heartily wish I could be with you on the
25th, but it is aliter visum to somebody, whether Dis or Diabolis, I

can't say.

    The fact
    II                   the day after saw you had to put myself in
                                 I                                I
                  a
                    is,               ;                                     is
                                                                                                             is
Clark's hands, and he ordered me to knock off work and go andII
                                          I
amuse myself for three or four months, under penalties of an

unpleasant kind.

     So am off to Venice next Wednesday. It the only tolerably

warm place accessible to any one whose wife will not let him go
within reach of cholera just at present.

    If am good boy am to come back all sound, as there

nothing organic the matter but have had enough of the world,
the flesh, and the devil, and shall extricate myself from that Trinity

as soon as may be. Perhaps may get within measurable distance
                                                                                 die -- Ever
of Berkeley (English           Men of Letters,            ed.  J.M.)  before    Huxley.
yours very faithfully,                                                        I
                                                                       T. H.
                                                                                            !

                                                                  Athenaeum Club,

                                                                      October 18, 1884.

    My dear Foster-- Best thanks for your letter and route.                          a         am

giving you frightful quantity of trouble but, as the old woman                         I
          is                                                      a;
(Irish) said to my       wife, when              she gave her pair ofis     my  old  trousers
for her husband,Ia       " hope                    may be made up to        ye  in      better
                      if if I I  it                                      I
world."                             it

    She clear, and am clear, that there no reason on my part

for not holding on               the Society really wishes                    should. But,

of course,       must make                       easy for the Council to get rid of            a

faineant President, they prefer that course.
          wrote to Evans an unofficial letter two days ago, and have had
Ia
    Ivery kind, straightforward letter from him. He                           quite against
                                                                       is
my resignation.  I       shall see him this afternoon here.                     had to go
                                                                         I

to my office (Fishery).              is          lightening my abdominal troubles, but
      Clark's course of physic

indiaffmerenpcreepotsotereovuesrlyythinwg.ea--k  with       kinda of  shabby  broken-down
                                                 Ever  yours,                 T. H. H.

i8S4 SENT TO ITALY                                           81

      The " Indian summer " * to which he looked forward was
not to be reached without passing through a season of more
than equinoctial storms and tempests. His career had

reached its highest point only to be threatened with a

speedy close. He himself did not expect more than two
or three years' longer lease of life, and went by easy stages
to Venice, where he spent eight days. " No place," he
writes, " could be better fitted for a poor devil as sick in

body and mind as I was when I got there."

    Venice itself (he writes to Dr. Foster) just suited me. I

chartered a capital gondolier, and spent most of my time exploring

the Lagoons. Especially I paid a daily visit to the Lido, and filled

my lungs with the sea air, and rejoiced in the absence of stinks.

For Venice is like her population (at least the male part of it),
handsome but odorous. Did you notice how handsome the young

men are and how little beauty there is among the women ?

    I stayed eight days in Venice and then returned by easy stages
first to Padua, where I wanted to see Giotto's work, then to Verona,

and then here (Lugano). Verona delighted me more than anything
I have seen, and we will spend two other days there as we go back.
    IAs for myself, really            positive complaint now. I eat
well and I sleep well, and  have no   begin to think I was malinger

                            I should
ing, if it were not for a sort of weariness and deadness that hangs

about me, accompanied by a curious nervous irritability.
I expect that this is the upshot of the terrible anxiety I have
had about my daughter M
                            .

I would give a great deal to be able to escape facing the

wedding, for my nervous system is in the condition of that of a frog

under opium.
But my R. must not go off without the paternal benediction.

      For the first three weeks he was alone, his wife staying
to make preparations for the third daughter's wedding on
November 6th, for which occasion he was to return, after

wards taking her abroad with him. Unfortunately, just as he
started, news was brought him at the railway station that his

second daughter, whose brilliant gifts and happy marriage
seemed to promise everything for her future, had been
stricken by the beginnings of an insidious and, as he too
truly feared, hopeless disease. Nothing could have more

retarded his own recovery. It was a bitter grief, referred to

                            1 See page 68.

VOL. II                                                   G

S2       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, vi

only in his most intimate letters, and, indeed, for a time kept
secret even from the other members of the family. Nothing
was to throw a shade over the brightness of the approaching
wedding.

     But on his way home, he writes of that journey :--

     I II had to bear my incubus, not knowing what might come next,
until  reached Luzern, when             telegraphed for intelligence, and

had my mind set at ease as to the measures which were being

adopted.

    I am a tough subject, and have learned to bear a good deal

without crying out; but those four-and- twenty hours between

London and Luzern have taught me that I have yet a good deal

to learn in the way of " grinning and bearing."

       ..."And although he writes, " I would give a good deal not
to face a lot of people next week,"     I have the feelings

of a wounded wild beast and hate the sight of all but my

best friends," he hid away his feelings, and made this

the occasion for a very witty speech, of which, alas ! I

remember nothing but a delightfully mixed polyglot

exordium in French, German, and Italian, the result, he

declared, of his recent excursion to foreign parts, which had

obliterated the recollection of his native speech.

       During his second absence he appointed his youngest

daughter secretary to look after necessary correspondence,

about which he forwarded instructions from time to time.

     The chief matters of interest in the letters of this period
are accounts of health and travel, sometimes serious, more

often jesting, for the letters were generally written in the

bright intervals between his dark days : business of the
Royal Society, and the publication of the new edition of the

Lessons in Elementary Physiology, upon which he and Dr.

Foster had been at work during the autumn. But the four

months   abroad were not                prfoodr uacntivienvoaflidv--ery"  great good   ; the
weather                                                                   as usual, a  quite
unusual  wsaesasuonnp"r--opwitihoiules
                                        his mind was oppressed by the

reports of his daughter's illness. Under these circumstances

recovery was slow and travel comfortless ; all the English
man's love of home breaks out in his letter of April 8, when

he set foot again on English soil.

                          LETTERS FROM ITALY                               S3

                                                Hotel de Londres, Verona,

                                                           Nov. 18, 1884.

     Dearest Babs -- I. Why, indeed, do they ask for more? Wait
till they send a letter of explanation, and then say that I am out of

the country and not expected back for several years.                  But

    2. I wholly decline to send in any name to Athenaeum.

don't mention it.

3. Society of Arts be bothered, also            .

4. Write to Science and Art Club to engage three of the

prettiest girls as partners for the evening. They will look very nice

as wallflowers.

5. Penny dinners ? declined with thanks.
6. Ask the meeting of Herts N.H. Society to come here after

next Thursday, when we shall be in Bologna.

Business first, my sweet girl secretary with the curly front ; and

now for private affairs, though as your mother is covering reams

with them, I can only mention a few of the more important which

she will forget.

    The first is that she has a habit of hiding my shirts so that I am

unable to find them when we go away, and the chambermaid comes

rushing after us with the garment shamefully displayed.
     The second is that she will cover all the room with her things,

and I am obliged to establish a military frontier on the table.

The third is that she insists on my buying an Italian cloak. So

you will see your venerable pater equipped in this wise.* Except in

these two particulars, she behaves fairly well to me.
     In point of climate, so far, Italy has turned out a fraud. We

dare not face Venice, and Mr. Fenili will weep over my defec
tion; but that is better than that we should cough over his

satisfaction.

    I am quite pleased to hear of the theological turn of the family.

It must be a drop of blood from one of your eight great-grandfathers,
for none of your ancestors that I have known would have developed

in this way.                                       Tell the former that
     . . . Best love to Nettie and Harry.

cclaobtubraeg.e--s   do   not cost 5s. apiece,  and the latter  that  1 1 p.m. is the
                    Ever   your affectionate
                                                                          Pater.

                                                      Hotel Britannique, Naples,

                                                                                 Nov. 30, 1884.

    My dear Foster--Which being St. Andrew's Day, I think the

expatriated P. ought to give you some account of himself.

                  1 Sketch of a cloaked figure like a brigand of melodrama.

84                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                               chap, vi

     We had a prosperous journey to Locarno, but there plumped

into bitter cold weather, and got chilled to the bone as the only

guests in the big hotel, though they did their best to make us com
Ifortable.
                  made a shot at bronchitis, but happily failed, and got

all right again.

     Pallanza was as bad. At Milan temperature at noon 390 F.,
freezing at night. Verona much the same. Under these circum

stances, we concluded to give up Venice and made for Bologna.

There found it rather colder. Next Ravenna, where it snowed.

However, we made ourselves comfortable in the queer hotel, and

rejoiced in the mosaics of that sepulchral marsh.

    At Bologna I had assurances that the Sicilian quarantine was

going to be taken off at once, and as the reports of the railway

travelling and hotels in Calabria were not encouraging, I determined

to make for Naples, or rather, by way of extra caution, for Castella
mare. All the way to Ancona the Apennines were covered with
snow, and much of the plain also. Twenty miles north of Ancona,

however, the weather changed to warm summer, and we rejoiced

accordingly. At Foggia I found that the one decent hotel that used

to exist was non-extant, so we went on to Naples.

      Arriving at 10.30 very tired, got humbugged by a lying
Neapolitan, who palmed himself off as the commissaire of the

Hotel Bristol, and took us into an omnibus belonging to another

hotel, that of the British being, as he said, "broke." After a drive

of three miles or so got to the Bristol and found it shut up ! After

a series of adventures and a good deal of strong language on my

part, knocked up the people here, who took us in, though the hotel

was  in  reality   shut up like   most of those   in Naples.1
     As  usual    the weather is                  hot in the
                                   " unusual "--               sun,  cold                round

the corner and at night. Moreover, I found by yesterday's paper

Ithat the beastly Sicilians won't give up their ten days' quarantine.
So all chance of getting to Catania or Palermo is gone.                                  am not

sure whether we shall stay here for some time or go to Rome, but at

any rate we shall be here a week.

     Dohrn is away getting subsidies in Germany for his new ship.

We inspected the Aquarium this morning. Eisig and Mayer are in

charge. Madame is a good deal altered in the course of the twelve

years that have elapsed since I saw her, but says she is much better

than she was.

    As for myself, I got very much better when in North Italy in

spite of the piercing cold. But the fatigue of the journey from

Ancona here, and the worry at the end of           did me no good,
    II
                                                          a
                                                                                    it,

                                                                 aI
and have been seedy for day or two. However, am pick

ing up.

         see one has to be very careful here. We had lovely drive

         Owing to the cholera and consequent dearth of travellers.

                      LETTERS FROM ITALY                                           85

yesterday out Pausilippo, but the wife got chilled and was shaky this

morning. However, we got very good news of our daughter this

evening, and that has set us both up.

My blessing for to-morrow will reach you after date. Let us

hear how everything went off.

Your return in May project is really impracticable on account of
the Fishery Report. I cannot be so long absent from the Home
Office whatever I might manage with S.K.
                                                                   you-- Ever
      With  our love  to      Mrs.                  Foster  and               T.  Hyo.ursHuvxelreyyf.aith
fully,

     This letter, as he says a week later, was written when he
" was rather down in the mouth from the wretched cold
weather, and the wife being laid up with a bad cold," besides
his own ailments.

I find I have to be very careful about night air, but nothing

            lsuoncmhu--chatgoaogdoaosd          six or      seven  miles'   walk between break
                                                 sharp      pace.    So      conclude that there
Idoes me

fast and
Icannot be much the matter, and yet am always on the edge, so to

speak, of that infernal hypochondria.

    We have settled down here very comfortably, and I do not

think we shall care to go any further south. Madame Dohrn and

all the people at the stazione are very kind, and want to do all sorts

of things for us. The other day we went in the launch to Capri,

intending next day to go to Amalfi. But it threatened bad weather,
so we returned in the evening. The journey knocked us both up,

and we had to get out of another projected excursion to Ischia

to-day. The fact
    !                         get infinitely tired with talking to people and

                     iIs,
can't stand any deviation from regular and extremely lazy habits.

Fancy my being always in bed by ten o'clock and breakfasting at

nine

      On the ioth, writing to Sir John Evans, who as Vice-
President,
            was       acting                    in  his  stead     at  the  Royal  Society, he
says --
I

  I:

                is
                           is

                                               a
RaveInnnsap--ite wohficshnow   on                the  ground we    had three or four days at
                              the               most  interesting  deadly lively sepulchre of
                                                            I
                                                                     .
                                                                           I

                                                                                  I

                                                                                          Ia
place       was ever in in my life. The evolution of modern from

ancient art all there in nutshell. . .

       lead an altogether animal life, except that have renewed my
old love for Italian. At present
                                                                   am rejoicing in the Auto

biography of that delightful sinner, Benvenuto Cellini.                            have some

notion that there such thing as science somewhere. In fact
                      is
                                     a

am fitting myself for Neapolitan nobility.

86                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                            CHAI'. VI

                   To his Youngest Daughter

                                                       Hotel Britannique, Naples,

                                                                       Dec. 22, 1884.

     But we have had no letters from home for a week. . . .
Moreover, if we don't hear to-day or to-morrow we shall begin to

speculate  "ownitthhealpl rtohbeabyioliutyngofbaarnbareiaanrtshquaatkeplayha--viAngndswIalltohweeird   up

4 M. P.                                                                                               sir e
trying to  get a Roman holiday " (Byron). For we are going to
Rome to-morrow, having had enough of Naples, the general effect

of which city is such as would be produced by the sight of a

beautiful woman who had not washed or dressed her hair for a

month. Climate, on the whole, more variable than that of London.

      We had a lovely drive three days ago to Cumae, a perfect
summer's day ; since then sunshine, heat, cold wind, calms all
durcheinander, with thunder and lightning last night to complete

the variety.it,

     The thermometer and barometer are not fixed to the walls here,
as they would be jerked off by the sudden changes. At first, it is
odd to see them dancing about the hall. But you soon get used to

    and the porter sees that they don't break themselves.

     gWooitdh--loEvveertoyoNuerttlioevianngd   Harry,  and   hopes  that    the pudding               will
                                              father,                       H. Huxley.
be                                                                   T.

       In January 1885 he went to Rome, whence he writes: --

                            Hotel Victoria, Via dei due Macelli,
                                                       Rome, Jan.
                                                                    a       1885.

     My dear    Foster --We have been here                              8,
lodged-- south                                                          fortnight      very well
                 aspect, fireplace, and all the                     rest of the        essentials

except sunshine.      Of this last there                          not much more than in
                                              it
                                                   is

                                                              is
England, and the grey skies day after day are worthy of our native

land.     Sometimesa        rains cats and             dogs     all day  b" yQuwiatey  of change
       on Christmas                                     not     cold.                  exceptional
-- as                   itDay -- but                                                   a

                                                                                        I
weather," they tell us, but that seems to be the rule everywhere.
We have done respectable amount of gallery-slaving, and have

been amusing myself by picking up the topography of ancient

Rome.  I   was going to say Pagan Rome, but the inappropriateness

of the distinction strikes me, papal Rome being much more stupidly

and childishly pagan than imperial.                             never saw              sadder sight
                            it                                      a
                                is                                              a
                                    a

                                           .
                                                .

                                          I
than the kissing wretched bedizened doll of Bambino that went
                   a

on in the Ara Coeli on Twelfth day. Your puritan soul would

have longed to arise and slay. .

     As to myself, though                     very unsatisfactory subject and one

                                   LETTER FROM ROME                               87

II am very tired of bothering my friends about, am like the farmer

at the rent-dinner, and don't find myself much "forrarder." That

is to say, I am well for a few days and then all adrift, and have to

put myself right by dosing with Clark's pills, which are really
                   They will make me believe in those pills I saw
invaluable.

advertised     in  m"ytheyoiuntdh,ecaisnidonwohfichjuriaems.o"ng   other things   were war
ranted to    cure                                                                 make out
Imy own condition.                                                I really can't

                                   walked seven or eight miles this morning

Iover Monte Mario and out on the Campagna without any particular
fatigue, and yesterday             was as miserable as an owl in sunshine.

Something perhaps must be put down to the relapse which our poor

girl had a week ago, and which became known to us in a terrible

way. She had apparently quite recovered, and arrangements were

Imade for their going abroad, and now everything is upset.

warned her husband that this was very likely, but did not sufficiently

take the warning to myself.

You are taking a world of trouble for me, and Donnelly writes
I am to do as I like so far as they are concerned.                 I have heard
nothing from the Home Office, and I suppose it would be proper
Ifor me to write if want any more leave. I really hardly know
Iwhat to do.       can't say I feel very fit for the hurly-burly of
London just now, but I am not sure that the wholesomest thing for

If Ime would not be at all costs to get back to some engrossing work.

    my poor girl were well, could perhaps make something of the

dolce far niente, but at present one's mind runs to her when it is not
busy in something else.
    I expect                                                      more -- at any
              we shall be here a     week or ten days                             rate,
this address                         to Florence.
              is safe -- afterwards
What am I to do in the Riviera ? Here and at Florence there

is always some distraction. You see the problem is complex.
My wife, who is very lively, thanks you for your letter (which I
                                   joins with me  in love to Mrs.  Foster and your
shealvf.e--anEsvweerreydo)ursa,nd                                     T. H. H.

     Writing on the same day to Sir J. Evans, he proposed

a considerable alteration in the duties of the Assistant
Secretary of the Royal Society.

    You know that I served a seven years' apprenticeship as

Secretary, and that experience gave me very solid grounds for the
conviction that, with the present arrangements, a great deal of the
time of the Secretaries is wasted over the almost mechanical
drudgery of proof-reading.

     He suggests new arrangements, and proceeds :--

At the same time it would be very important to adopt some

ss                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                            chap, vi

arrangement by which the Transactions papers can be printed inde
pendently of one another.

      Why should not      the    papeTrhs usb--e  "pHaguexdleyi.ndepIednledneenstsly   and         be
numbered for each         year?                                                       and
                                                                                                  In
capacity in Italy. Phil. Trans. 1885. VI."
    People grumble at the delay in publication, and are quite right

in doing so, though it is impossible under the present system to be
more expeditious, and it is not every senior secretary who would

slave at the work as Stokes does. . . .

    But it is carrying coals to Newcastle to talk of such business

Iarrangements as these to you.

     The only thing am strong about, is the folly of going on

cutting blocks with our Secretarial razors any longer.
    I am afraid I cannot give a very good account of
     The truth                                                                   m" yIsselfl.ife
living?" -- that  of the   answer    tloiveMr --allioscbke'singqusetrsotinognly                   worth
                  depends    on the                                              enforced         upon
Ime in the hepatic sense of liver, and must confess myself fit for
very little. A week hence we shall migrate to Florence and try the
effect of the more bracing air. The Pincio is the only part of

Rome that is fit to live in, and unfortunately the Government does

not offer to build me a house there.
                  I have
      However,            got a great deal of enjoyment out of ancient
                  Rome
Rome -- papal             is too brutally pagan (and in the worst possible

taste too) for me.

                To his Daughter, Mrs. Roller

                                                                     Jan. II, 1885.

    We have now had nearly three weeks in Rome. I am sick of
churches, galleries, and museums, and meanly make M
                                                                                                  go and

see them and tell me about them.                  As we are one flesh, it is just

the same as if I had seen them.

      Since the time of Constantine there has been nothing but

tawdry rubbish in the shape of architecture 1-- the hopeless bad taste
of the Papists is a source of continual gratification to me as a

good Protestant   a(sandthossoemeotfhinEgngmlaonrde)--.    As  for   the skies, they are
                                                         the   only    advantage is the
as changeable       and snow -- (raining cats and
absence of frost                                                     dogs this Sunday

morning).

    IBut down to the time of Constantine, Rome is endlessly inter
esting, and if were well I should like to spend some months in

    1

         I
                      iIs,

                                                      I
exploring it. As it        do very little, though                    have contrived to

pick up all want to know about Pagan Rome and the Catacombs,

which last are my especial weakness.

    For his appreciation of the great dome of the Pantheon, see p. 126.

                     LETTERS FROM ROME

--otMheyrwmisaesterverayndlivpelhyy. siciAanll  is bothered     a good deal with eczema
                                                 the chief      collections in Rome are

provided with a pair of her spectacles, which she leaves behind.

Several new opticians' shops are set up on the strength of the

purchases in this line she is necessitated to make.

    I want to be back at work, but I am horribly afraid I should be

no good yet. We are thinking of going to Florence at the end of

this week to see what the drier and colder air there will do.
                                                all -- we                 aH.sigHhtuxofleyyo.u. --
      With our dear love to  you                           are  wae  for
Ever your loving father,                                             T.

                             Hotel Victoria, Via dei due Macelli,

                                                           Jan. 16, 1885.

   My dear Foster -- It seems to me that I am giving my friends

a word of trouble. . . .
   I have had a bad week of
                                                and the night before last was
                             I
                                             it,
                                                                 a
under the impression that was about to succumb shortly to
                                                                                   I
                                                                                                    a
complication of maladies, and moreover, that wooden box that my

wife had just had made would cost thousands of pounds in the way

of payment for extra luggage before we reached home.                               do not

know which hypochondriacal possession was the most depressing.

   can laugh at        now, but                 really was extraordinarily weak
I            I

and ill.                  it

                                     I
   We had made up our minds to bolt from Rome to Florence at

once, when       suddenly got better, and to-day am all right. So as

we hear of snow at Florence we shall stop where we are.
                                                                              ;              has

been raining          and dogs                   and the Tiber            rose   it
inundated the        grounds.                   cantabit elevatus         "
                                                                                         It
               cats              here,                                          40 feet and
               low              But "                                            can't touch

us, and at any rate the streets are washed clean.

   The climate   is    mild here. We have capital room and all
                     is                         a
the sunshine that        to be had, plus              a         good fire when needful,
                                                             a
and at worst one can always get breezy walk on the Pincio

hard by.                                        I          to do anything or nothing         ?
      However, about the leave. Am

   am dying to get back to steady occupation and English food, and
I
    Ithe sort of regimen one can maintain in one's own house. On the

other hand, stand in fear of the bitter cold of February and early
             II
March, and still more of the thousand and one worries of London

outside one's work. So suppose                  I it       will be better     if   keep away
                         I                                                      I  must hear

till Easter, or at any rate to the end of March. But                          I

something definite from the H.O.                           have written to Donnelly to

the same effect. My poor Marian's relapse did not do us any good,

for all that     expected it. However, the last accounts are very

favourable.

       wrote to Evans the other day about                       a   re-arrangement of the

9o              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              chap, vi

Iduties of the Secretary and Assistant Secretary.             thought it was
better to write to him than to you on that subject, and I begged
him to discuss the matter with the officers. It is quite absurd that

Stokes and you should waste your time in press drudgery.

    IWe are very prudent here, and the climate suits us both,

especially my wife, who is so vigorous that depute her to go and

see the Palazzi, and tell me all about them when she comes back.
                                                         Ianctaiqnuaalrwya--ysit'psotjutesrt
IOld Rome is endlessly interesting to me,          and
about and find occupation.     think I shall       turn

the occupation for a decayed naturalist, though you need not tell
     Treasurer I say so.
the                                         yourself -- Ever
     With our love to Mrs.
                               Foster  and                    yours,

                                                              T. H. H.

                Hotel Victoria, Rome, Via dei due Macelli,

                                       Jan. 18, 1885.

     My dear Donnelly --Official sentence of exile for two months

more  (up   to  cMonacyur12I)  arrived yesterday.     So if my lords will be so
kind  as   to                  shall be able to    disport myself with a clear
                I hope their lordships won't think that I am taking
conscience.                                        application, and I will do
                                                   rested with me I think I
things too easy in not making a regular

so if you think it better. But if it had

should have got back in February and taken my chance. That

energetic woman that owns me, and Michael Foster, however, have

taken the game out of my hands, and I have nothing to do but to

submit.

    On the whole I feel it is wise. I shall have more chance if I

escape not only the cold but the bother of London for a couple of

months more.

    I Iwas very bad a week ago, but have taken to dosing myself

with quinine, and either that or something else has given me a
spurt for the last two days, so that I have been more myself than
any time since I left, and begin to think that there is life in the old
Ifdog yet.
                one could only have some fine weather ! To-day

there is the first real sunshine we have been favoured with for a

week.

     We are just back from a great function at St. Peter's. It is the
festa of St. Peter's chair, and the ex-dragoon Cardinal Howard has

been fugleman in the devout adorations addressed to that venerable
article of furniture, which, as you ought to know, but probably don't,
is inclosed in a bronze double and perched up in a shrine of the

worst possible taste in the Tribuna of St. Peter's. The display of man-

--wmiitlphlirneeevrenynvyte,adnadnudslafacroemgewnafeesrealleinngocuogndhcuelrlt,to--whfsiiolllemtethheeoflcigit-hhdteeevsamt-nmutsiincgdueavrdedrsymwaognmo--oadn

1885 LETTERS FROM ROME                                                                                    91

big, burly, and bullet-headed -- made God and then eat him.* I
Imust have a strong strain of Puritan blood in me somewhere, for

am possessed with a desire to arise and slay the whole brood of
idolators whenever I assist at one of these ceremonies. You will
observe that I am decidedly better, and have a capacity for a good

hatred still.

The last news about Gordon is delightful. The chances are he

will rescue Wolseley yet.                              T. H. Huxley.

    With our love -- Ever yours,

                   To his Eldest Son

                                                  Rome, Jan. 20, 1885.

II need hardly tell you that I find Rome wonderfully interesting,
and the attraction increases the longer one stays.              am obliged to

take care of myself and do but little in the way of sight-seeing, but

by directing one's attention to particular objects one can learn a

great deal without much trouble. I begin to understand Old Rome
pretty well, and I am quite learned in the Catacombs, which suit
me, as a kind of Christian fossils out of which one can reconstruct

the body of the primitive Church. She was a simple maiden

enough and vastly more attractive than the bedizened old harridan

of the modern Papacy, so smothered under the old clothes of

Paganism which she has been appropriating for the last fifteen
IcenturhieasvethbaetenJestousseovef rNalazgarereatthpawpoisutlidcalnoftunkcntoiownsh--er aimf ohneg
                                                                                                     met her.
                                                                                                      others to
Ithe festa of the Cathedra Petri in St. Peter's last Sunday, and con
fess I am unable
                   to understand     how grown    mmeenrecafnetilsehndwtohresmhispe--lveisn
to such elaborate                    nothing but
                   tomfooleries --

forms of execrably bad taste, devised, one would think, by a college

of ecclesiastical man-milliners for the delectation of school-girls.

It is curious to notice that intellectual and aesthetic degradation go

hand in hand. You have only to go from the Pantheon to St.

Peter's to understand the great abyss which lies between the Roman
Iof paganism
                                 of
grander than
               and the Roman     --   the   papacy.             have seen nothing
                 Agrippa's work      the   popes have           stripped it to adorn

their own petrified lies, but in its nakedness it has a dignity with

which there is nothing to compare in the ill-proportioned, worse

decorated tawdry stone mountain on the Vatican.

The best thing, from an aesthetic point of view, that could be

done with Rome would be to destroy everything except St. Paolo

fuor le Mure, of later date than the fourth century.

1 A reminiscence   of Browning in " The Bishop Orders           his Tomb"                            :--

                   And then how I shall lie through centuries,
                   And hear the blessed mutter of the mass,
                   And see God made and eaten all day long.

92               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                            CHAP. VI

    But you will have had enough of my scrawl, and your mother

wants to add something.      She is                 in great force,     and is      gsoeneeingp. r--o
                          or other                                      is worth
specting to some Palazzo                            to tell me if it
Ever your loving father,                                            T. H. Huxley.

                      Hotel Victoria, Rome, Via dei due Macelli,

                                                    Jan. 25, 1885.

    My dear Donnelly -- Best thanks for the telegram which

arrived the day before yesterday and set my mind at ease.

    I have been screwing up the old machine which I inhabit, first
                                                    of
with quinine     and  now with a form                     strychnia (which        Clark  told
me to take)      for  the last week, and            I     have improved a         good   deal

whether post hoc or propter hoc in the present uncertainty of medical
science I decline to give any
                                opinion.                            an  eighth  of an inch
      The weather is very cold
                                for Rome -- ice

thick in the Ludovisi Garden the other morning, and every night it

freezes, but mostly fine sunshine in the day. (This is a remarkable
sentence in point of grammar, but never mind.) The day before

yesterday we came out on the Campagna, and it then was as fresh

and bracing a breeze as you     could               get in  Northumberland.              it
      We are very comfortable     and               quiet
                                                            here, and I hold on -- till
                 I am told that Florence is detestable at present.
gets warmer.

As for London, our accounts make us shiver and cough.

     News about the dynamiting gentry just arrived. A little more

mischief and there will be an Irish massacre in some of our great

towns. If an Irish Parnellite member were to be shot for every
explosion I believe the thing would soon stop. It would be quite

just, as they are practically accessories.
    I think           would do it if he were Prime Minister.
                                                                                     Nothing

like a thorough Radical for arbitrary acts of power !

    I must be getting better, as my disgust at science has ceased,
and I have begun to potter about Roman geology and prehistoric work.

IYou may be glad to learn that there is no evidence that the pre
historic Romans had Roman noses. But                                as cannot        find any
                                                                                       ancient
particular   Cpraeevsaalre--nceRomoaf n[i,thethme]    among the      modern -- or     it might
except for    I                                     fact is not so
                                                                     interesting as
              a
appear, and      would not advise                   you to tell          of it.
      Behold                                         promising   of better things.
                 Goak -- feeble, but

     My wife unites with  me with                   love  to Mrs. Donnelly and your
self. -- Ever yours,                                                 T. H. Huxley.

     The following letter refers to the fourth edition of the
Lessons in Elementary Physiology, in the preparation of

which Dr. Foster had been helping during the summer :--

                       LETTERS FROM ROME                                                                             93

                       Hotel Victoria, Rome, Via dei due Macelli,
                                                Feb. I, 1885.

     My dear Foster -- Anything more disgraceful than the way in
Iwhich I have left your letter of more than a fortnight ago un
answered,      don't know. I thought the wife had written about the
leave (and she thought I had, as she has told you) but I knew I
had not answered the questions about the title, still less considered

the awful incubus ( x 10,000 dinners by hepatic deep objection) of

the  preface.                                                                           world -- not much
     There is such
                      a thing as              justice                      in     this                     of        I it,
but still some -- and
                       it      partly on that ground and partly because
                           is

want you, in view of future eventualities, to have copyright in the
                                                                                        I
book, that proposed we should join our names.                                                     a
           I
     Of course, I if  you would really rather not, for any good reason                            it I

you may have, have nothing further to say. But don't think

that the sentimental reason                   is                   good one, and unless you have                     a
                                                  a

better, wish you would let the original proposal stand.
     I

     However, having stated the case afresh                                                leave        for you to

say yes or no, and shall abide by your decision without further

discussion.
     IfAs to the Preface.
                               II                                am to write        it, please send me the old

Preface.     think the book was published in 1864, or was 1866                        I                              ?
it                                                                                                it                    1
                                                                                                     it
and ought to be come of age or nearly so.I it
          I                                                                                            I
     You might send me the histological chapter, not that am
             I
                iIs,
going to alter anything, but should like to see how looks.                                                           I

will knock the preface off at once, as soon as hear from you.

     The fact         have been much better in the course of the last

few days. The weather has been very sunshiny but cool and
bracing, and have taken to quinine. Tried Clark's strychnine, but

did not answer so well.

     am in hopes that have taken turn for the better, and that
                       I                                                   a

there may yet be the making of something better than                                                    growling
                                                                                                        a
hypochondriacal old invalid about me. But                                                                        is
glad that am not obliged to be back 10 days                                             I  haemncem--ostthesreincerneolyt

II
      I

                                     it
                                          is
much capital accumulated yet.

     find that the Italians have been doing an immense deal in

prehistoric archaeology of late years, and far more valuable work

than imagined. But                            very difficult to get at, and as Loescher's

head man told me the other day when                                        it       asked for an Italian book
published in Rome, " Well, you see                                                  so difficult to get Roman
                                                                            ! is I
books in Rome."

     am ashamed to be here two months                                                      without paying my
I                                                                                           The unaccountable

                                     1

                            I

                                                                1
respects   to the  Lincei, and  --                               am going         to-day.
creatures   meet   at o'clock                                    lunch time

                                                                   In 1866.

94 CHAP. VI

     Best love from my wife and self to Mrs. Foster and yourself. --
                                                               T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours,

                                                                                 Kome, Feb. 14, 1885.

     My dear Foster -- Voila the preface -- a work of great labour !

and which you may polish and alter as you like, all but the last

paragraph. IYou see have caved in. I like your asking to have
Iyour own way "for once." My wife takes the same line, does what

ever she pleases, and then declares leave her no initiative.
     If I talk of public affairs, I shall simply fall a-blaspheming.                I

see the Times holds out about Gordon, and does not believe he is

killed. Poor fellow ! I wish I could believe that his own conviction

(as he told me) is true, and that death only means a larger govern
ment for him to administer. Anyhow, it is better to wind up that

way than to go growling out one's existence as a ventose hypo

chondriac, dependent upon the condition of a few square inches of

mucous membrane for one's heaven or hell.
     IAs to private affairs,                  think I am getting solidly, but very
slowly, better. In fact, I can't say there is much the matter with
me, except that I am weaker than I ought to be, and that a sort of
weary indolence hangs about me like a fog. M
                                                                     is wonderfully

better, and her husband has taken a house for them at Norwood.
I IIf
                                                       should
to
  could be rejoiced at anything,                      when I   be at that ; but it  se"etmhes
me as if since that awful journey                              first left England,

springs was broke," as that vagabond tout said at Naples.

     It has turned very cold here, and we are uncertain when to
leave for Florence, but probably next week. The Carnival is the
most entirely childish bosh I have ever met with among grown

Ipeople. Want to finish this now for post, but will write again

speedily. Moseley's proposition is entirely to my mind, and have

often talked of it. The R.S. rooms ought to be house-of-call and
quasi-club for all F.R.S. in London.

    Wife is bonny, barring a cold. It is as much as I can do to

preveWnitthhebresstpolorvtein--g aEvmearskyouarnsd, domino !         T. H. H.

                                                       Hotel Victoria, Rome,
                                              Via dei due Macelli, Feb. 16, 1885.

     My   tdheearlastDwoenenke--llyev--er  I    have   had it on my mind to      write to
     for                                      since   the hideous news about     Gordon
you

reached us. But partly from a faint hope that his wonderful fortune

might yet have stood him in good stead, and partly because there is
Ino great satisfaction in howling with rage, I have
      Poor  fellow  !"  I wonder if           he      has  entered   abstained.  " larger
sphere of   action                            me      was  reserved              case of
                        which he told                                upon the
                                                                     for him in

such a trifling accident as death. Of all the people whom have

                                                                                                     95

Imet with in my life, he

found something bigger

simplicity and directness
                            aontfhdapnuDrpaoorswredini--naraayresuhtbuhleimmaetnwiuotyns--ienlfaiswnhhnoeumsnse. quahlalevde
Horrible as it is to us, I imagine that the manner of his death

was not unwelcome to himself. Better wear out than rust out, and

better break than wear out. The pity is that he could not know

the feeling of his countrymen about him.                                            Isuperingenious
                                                                                        suppose, as
    I shall be curious to see what defence the

Premier has to offer for himself in Parliament.

usual, the question will drift into a brutal party fight, when the

furious imbecility of the Tories  will  lead them                        tiombsepcoiillityth"eiwr aciatisneg.
That is where we are ; on the     one   side, timid
                                                                   "
for instructions from the constituencies                                 furious    imbecility on    the
                                                                      ;

other, looking out for party advantage. Oh ! for a few months

of William Pitt.            there may   be some hope that Gordon                                     has
                            afraid the  last telegram from Wolseley                                  was
    I see you think
escaped yet. I am

decisive.  We have been watching the news with the greatest

anxiety, and it has seemed only to get blacker and blacker.

[Touching a determined effort to alter the management of

certain Technical Education   business.]  the                            unfitness  Iof these people
                             and that                                                I regret am
    I trust he may succeed,

to be trusted with anything may be demonstrated.

not able to help in the good work. Get the thing out of their

hands as fast as possible. The prospect of being revenged for all

the beastly dinners I sat out and all the weary discussions I

attended to on purpose, really puts a little life into me. Apropos
of that, I am better in various ways, but curiously weak and washed
Iout ; and I am afraid that not even the prospect of a fight would
screw me up for long.       don't understand unless have some
                                                                   I

                                                                           it,

                                                                                 I
                                                                                                I
organic disease of which nobody can find any trace (and in which
do not believe myself), or unless the terrible trouble we have had

has accelerated the advent of old age.                                   rather suspect that the

last speculation nearest the truth. You will be glad to hear that
I
                          wonderfully better, and, indeed, to all appearance
                     is
                        is
my poor girl

quite well. They are living quietly at Norwood.

shall be back certainly by the 12 th April, probably before.

We have found very good quarters here, and have waited for the

weather to get warmer before moving; but at last we have made up
our minds to begin nomadising again next Friday. We go to Florence,

staomkiengtiSmieenan,exatndweperko. babAldydPreissas,--onHootuerl  way, and reaching Florence
                                                                   Milano, Via Cerretani.
For the last week the Carnival has been going on. It strikes

me as the most elaborate and dreariest tomfoolery have ever seen,
                                                                         it

                                                                          I

                                                                                      It

                                                                                                 is
but doubt                   am in the humour to judge fairly.                                        only
I
            iIf

96              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           chap, vi

just to say that it entertains my vigorous wife immensely.                         I have

been expecting to see her in mask and domino, but happily this is

the last day, and there is no sign of any yet. I have never seen

is
   a
                         by

                                                                I is,
any one so much benefited by rest and change as she                                and that

    good thing for both of us.

    After Florence we shall probably make our way to Venice, and

come home       the Lago di Garda and Germany. But will let

you know when our plans are settled.     two -- Ever                       yours,
      With best love from we two to you                             T. H. Huxley.

                To his Youngest Daughter

                                                                    Siena, Feb. 23, 1885.

numeDroeuasres"tgoEaktshe" lo--f ThYeanckuetteingpeyrofourmseinntg  me contains    one of the
                                                                    donkey who          allowed
        I
                                         a
                                                                                     is
                                                           I
                                                                         if
                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                it
                                                                                                                    is
to disport himself in one of the New York papers.                                  confess

difficult to see the point of the joke, but there one you look

close.  don't think you need trouble to enlighten the simple

inquirer. He probably only wanted the indignant autograph which

he won't get.                                                       The public ought
      The Parker Museum must take care of itself.

to support not the men of science.
        a
                it,

                         ;

                       II
                             I

                                                                                 it
                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                              if,
    As grandfather,            am ashamed of my friends who are of the

same standing but think they would take as liberty in
accordance with your wish, were to write to expostulate.

      After your mother had exhausted the joys of the Carnival, she

permitted me to leave Rome for this place, where we arrived last

Friday evening. My impression   that we had stayed in Rome
                                is
                                                                           something idle
                                          if

                                                              is
much longer we should never have left. There

and afternoony about the air which whittles away one's resolution.
     The change here wonderfully to the good. We are perched
        a
                           is
more than thousand feet above the sea, looking over the Tuscan
hills for twenty or thirty miles every way. It
                                                                    is is  warm enough to

sit with the window wide open and yet the air purer and more

bracing than in any place we have visited. Moreover, the hotel

(Grande Albergo) very comfortable.
    Then there  is    one of the most wonderful cathedrals to be seen
                    is
in all North Italy -- free from all the gaudy finery and atrocious bad

taste which have afflicted me all over South Italy. The town the

quaintest place imaginable -- built of narrow streets on several steep
                                                                    I
                                                                               a
                                                                                        is

                                                                                     Ia
hills to start with, and then apparently stirred up with poker to

prevent monotony of effect.

    Moreover, there Catherine of Siena, of whom am reading
                      is

delightful Catholic life by an Italian father of the Oratory. She
died 500 years ago, but she was one of twenty-five children, and

                  LETTERS FROM SIENA                                                                    97

think some of them must have settled in Kent and allied themselves

with the Heathorns. Otherwise, I don't see why her method of

writing to the Pope should have been so much like the way my

         (sehsepehcaidallynotthheadyothuengsetisgtm) awtarit--e  to their holy father.
Idaughters
                                                                 --amothaefrrawidisetheshree  must   have
     I wish                                                                                   was a  very

been a leetle humbug about the business

remarkable person, and you need not be ashamed of the relationship.
    I suppose we
                  shall get to Florence                           some    time this week             ;  the
address was sent  to you before we left                          Rome
                                                                        -- Hotel Milano,                Via
I ICerretti. But
                  am loth to leave this lovely air in which, do
Ibelieve, am going to pick up at last. The misfortune is that we

did not intend to stay here more than three days, and so had

letters sent to Florence. Everybody told us it would be very cold,

and, as usual, everybody told taradiddles.                              all. -- Ever your loving
      M. unites in fondest love to you                                      T. H. Huxley.

father,

                                      To his Son

                                                                        Siena, Feb. 25, 1885.

. . If you had taken to physical science it would have been
Idelightful to me for us to have worked together, and am half
I Iinclined to take to history that may earn that pleasure.
                                                                                                 could

give you some capital wrinkles about the physical geography and

pprriemheisrto!ricJokhiinstgoryapa(ertx,cuIsebelbieuvlel)  of Italy for a Roman History
                                                           that history might be, and ought

to be,   taougf het vionluationnew--  fashion so           as  to make the  meaning of it as a
process                               intelligible         to   the young.  The Italians have

Ibeen doing wonders in the last twenty years in prehistoric archaeology,

and have been greatly interested in acquainting myself with the

general results of their work.

We moved here last Friday, and only regret that the reports of

the weather prevented us from coming sooner. More than 1000 ft.

above the sea, in the midst of a beautiful hill country, and with the

Iclearest and purest air we have met with in Italy, Siena is perfectly

charming. The window is wide open and look out upon a vast

pscaanloer--am"a,RaswomSeitehninag,"  like that of the          Surrey  hills, only           on a larger
                                      " Burnt Siena,"          in the   foreground,             where the

colour of the soil is not hidden by the sage green olive foliage,

purple mountains in the distance.

    IThe old town itself is a marvel of picturesque crookedness, and

the cathedral a marvel. M. and have been devoting ourselves

Ithis morning to St. Catarina and Sodoma's pictures.

         am reading a very interesting life of her by Capecelatro, and,
if my liver continues out of order, may yet turn Dominican.

    IHowever, the place seems to be doing me good, and may yet,

like another person, decline to be a monk.                                                    H

     VOL. II

98                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                         chap, vi

                To his Daughter, Mrs. Roller

                                                                              March 8.

    The great merit of Rome is that you have never seen the end

of  M. and                   have not worked very hard at our galleries and
    it.

               I
                 I

                                                          a
                                                                   a

                                                I
churches, but have got so far as commencing dislike for the fine

arts generally. Perhaps after week or two shall take to science

out of sheer weariness.

                                  Hotel de Milano, Florence,

                                                March 12, 1885.

    My dear Foster -- My wife and send you our hearty good
                                  I
wishes (antedated by four days).     it I

                                                It

                                                           is

                                                                           ;
                                                am not sure we ought not to

offer our best thanks to your mother for providing us with as staunch

    friend as people ever were blessed with.                                possible that she
a

                   if
did not consider that point nine and forty years ago but we are just

as grateful as she had gone through all on our own account.

      We start on our way homeward to-morrow or next                                                                                   day,  --by
Bologna to Venice, and then to England by the way we                                                                                   came

taking easy. The Brenner          long way round and hear very
    I it                     a                                                II
                                  is
                                        a                                                  is

                                            is
cold. think we may stay few days at Lugano, which liked very

much when there before. Florence very charming, but there not

much to be said for the climate. My wife has been bothered with

sore throat, to which she especially liable, ever since we have been
                             is

here. Old residents console her with the remark that Florentine

sore throat     is    dferoteregsuhtlaeabrr,le.tbhaidngSfooirnwmtehees--tsapnFrdilnogre.tnhcues,T--hebNaadapltlefeorsnr,athbioeanrd,s   of heat
                   a                                                                                                                   for both
                                                                                                                                       baddish
--andRomcoel,d   are
                good

for me. Venice has to be tried, but stinks and mosquitoes are sure

to render impossible as soon as the weather warm. Siena the
    I                        a

            a                    I
                                                 I
         it itI
                                                                    is
                    is
                       a is                                   I
                                                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                   is
                                                                           II
only place that suited both of us, and don't think that would

exactly answer to live in. Nothing like foreign travel for making one

content with home.

    shall have to find country lot suited to my fortunes when

am paid off. Couldn't you let us have your gardener's cottage My

wife understands poultry and shall probably have sufficient strength

to open the gate and touch my hat to the Dons as they drive up.
am afraid E. not steady enough for waiting-maid or would offer

...her services.
                  am rejoiced to hear that the lessons and the questions
are launched. They loom large to me as gigantic undertakings, in

which dim and speculative memory suggests once took part, but
                                 I
                                                 I
probably                     solar myth, and am too sluggish to feel much com

punction for the extra trouble you have had.

1885 LETTERS FROM FLORENCE                                                                                                                        99

IPerhaps shall revive when my foot is on my native heath in

atFhcoetsitvsMeihtryyada--ynwdoigfterhyoeovruiewsrssiseoelofu.ft--sthhpeeEhovwEteoovrgaurnlyadogpuhejrolsisi,nth.*uinntilnovge--anndothginoTog.d   diminishes her
                                                                                                                                                   wishes to Mrs.

                                                                                                                                                  H. Huxley.

      The two worst and most depressing periods of this vain
pilgrimage in pursuit of health, were the stay at Rome and
at Florence. At the latter town he was inexpressibly ill

and weak ; but his daily life was brightened by the sympathy
and active kindness of Sir Spencer Walpole, who would take

him out for short walks, talking as little as possible, and
shield him from the well-meant but tactless attentions of
visitors who would try to " rouse him and do him good " by

long talks on scientific questions.

His physical condition, indeed, was little improved.

As for my unsatisfactory carcase (he writes on March 6, to Sir
J. Donnelly), there seems nothing the matter with it now except
Ithat the brute objects to work.              eat well, drink well, sleep well,
Iand have no earthly ache, pain or discomfort.
                                                                                                                                                  can walk for a

couple of hours or more    waintdhou" tsafyaitnigguea.     But half an hour's talking
wearies me inexpressibly,                               few words," would finish me
Ifor the day. For all that, do not mean to confess myself finally
Ibeaten till have had another try.

      That is to say, he was still bent upon delivering his
regular course of lectures at South Kensington as soon as he
returned, in spite of the remonstrances of his wife and his

friends.

      In the same letter he contrasts Florence with Siena and
its " fresh, elastic air," its " lovely country that reminds one
of a magnified version of the Surrey weald." The Florentine
climate was trying.* " And then there is the awful burden
of those miles of ' treasures of art.' " He had been to the

    J.1

        2

great
where
St. John's Wood.                 Sir       Evans  w--ea"thIerb--egitno  to look forward with
A week later he writes to         of   English                          that dear little island
satisfaction to the equability                      fires warm          without suffocating --
                                close  -- where
  doors and windows shut

where the chief business of the population    in the streets is something                                                                         else than
                                              fowl with salad again.
expectoration -- and where I shall never see
    I"You perceive I am getting better by this prolonged growl. . . . But half
an hour's talking knocks me up, and am such an effete creature that I think of

writing myself p. R. S. with a small p."

100                       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap, vi

Uffizii ; " and there is the Pitti staring me in the face like
drear fate. Why can't I have the moral courage to come

back and say I haven't seen it ? I should be the most

distinguished of men."

    There is another reference to Gordon :--

      What an awful muddle you are all in in the bright little, tight little

island. I hate the sight of the English papers. The only good

thing that has met my eye lately is a proposal to raise a memorial to

Gordon. I want to join in whatever is done, and unless it will be
time enough when I return, I shall be glad if you will put me down

for to whatever is the right scheme.

      The following       to his daughter, Mrs. Roller, describes the
stay in Florence.
                                                Hotel de Milano, Florence,

                                                                   March 7, 1885.

     We have been here more than a week and have discovered two

things, first that the wonderful "art treasures," of which all the
world has heard, are a sore burden to the conscience if you don't go
to see them, and an awful trial to the back and legs if you do ; and
thirdly, that the climate is productive of a peculiar kind of relaxed

throat. M.'s throat discovered but on enquiry, proved to be
     it
         is
               a

                                                it,
                                                                         it
                                                                                             a
                                                                                                              aa
law of nature, at least, so the oldest inhabitants say. We called on

them to-day.

     But lovely place for all that, far better than Rome as

place to live in, and full of interesting things. We had morning
at the Uffizii the other day, and came back with minds enlarged and

backs broken. To-morrow we contemplate attacking the Pitti, and

doubt not the result will be similar. By the end of the week our

minds will probably [be] so large, and the small of the back so
small that we should probably break we stayed any longer, so think
                                if
prudent to be off to Venice. Which Friday the day we go,
it                                         a
reaching Venice Saturday or Sunday.                    isPension Suisse, Canal
  I
                                                    II
                      is                                     I
Grande, as before. And mind we have letters waiting for us there,

or your affectionate Pater will emulate the historical "cocky."
        got much better at Siena, probably the result of the medicinal

nature of the city, the name of which, as well-instructed girl like

you knows, derived from the senna, which grows wild there, and

gives the soil its peculiar pigmentary character.

      But unfortunately forgot to bring any with me, and the effectif I
went off during the first few days of our residence here, when was,
as the Italians say, " molto basso nel bocca." However am pick
ing up again now, and people wouldn't call upon us, feel there

might be chance for me.
     a

                AT SAN REMO                                              101

      I except from that remark altogether the dear Walpoles who

are here and as nice as ever. Mrs. Walpole's mother and sister live

here, and the W.'s are on a visit to them but leave on Wednesday.

They go to Venice, but only for two or three days.

      We shall probably stay about a fortnight in Venice, and then

make our way back by easy stages to London. We are wae to see

you all again.

      Doctor M  [Mrs. Huxley] has just been called in to a case

of sore throat in the person of a young lady here, and is quite

happy. The young lady probably will not be, when she finds

herself converted into a sort of inverted mustard-pot, with the
mustard outside ! She is one of
(by contrast) remind us of our    oawnve. r--y   nice  family of girls, who
                                                Ever   your loving (to all)

father,                                                       Pater.

      Mrs. M    has just insisted on seeing this letter.

                To his Youngest Daughter

                                  Hotel Beau Sejour, San Remo,

                                                  March 30, 1885.

     Dearest Babs -- We could not stand "beautiful Venice the
pride of the sea " any longer. It blew and rained and colded for

eight-and-forty hours consecutively. Everybody said it was a most

exceptional season, but that did not make us any warmer or prevent

your mother from catching an awful cold. So as soon as she got
better we packed up and betook ourselves here by way of Milan

and Genoa. At Milan it was so like London on a wet day, that

except for the want of smoke we might have been in our dear native

land.    At Genoa we arrived     late one afternoon     and   were off early
in the   morning -- but by dint  of taking a tram      after  dinner (not a

dram) and going there and back again we are able to say we have
seen that city of palaces. The basements we saw through the tram

windows by mixed light of gas and moon may in fact all have

belonged to palaces. We are not in a position to say they did

not.

      The quick train from Genoa here is believed to go fully twenty-

five miles an hour, but starts at 7 a.m., but the early morning air
being bad for the health, we took the slow train at 9.30, and got

here some time in the afternoon.     But  mind you it         is a full  --eigvhetryy
miles, and when we were at full   speed   between the         stations

few donkeys could have gone faster. But the coast scenery is very

Ipretty, and we didn't mind.                                  expect to be
      Here we are very well off and as nearly warm as
before reaching England. You can sit out in the sun with satisfac

tion, though there is a little knife-edge of wind just to remind us of

Florence. Everybody, however, tells us it is quite an exceptional

102          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                          CHAP. VI

season, and that it ought to be the most balmy air imaginable.

Besides  tfhloewreersareinntoheengdarodefnda--tea-pnadlmtshe  and cactuses and aloes     and
odorous                                                        loveliest purple sea you  can

imagine.                 stop  some  days         and give    San  Remo   a chance --at
      Well, we shall

least a week, unless the weather turns bad.

    IAs to your postcards which have been sent on from Venice and

are really shabby, am not going to any dinners whatsoever, either

Middle Temple or Academy. Just write to both that "Mr. H.
regrets he is unable to accept the invitation with which
                                                                               have

honoured him." 1

    I have really nothing the matter with me now --but my stock of
Istrength is not great, and can't afford to spend any on dinners.

       The blessedest    mthoinngthsn--owanwdill  be   to have done with  the  nomadic
       of the last five                           see   your ugly faces   (so  like their
Ilife
dear father) again.            believe it will be the best possible tonic

for me.
       M has not got rid of her cold yet, but a few warm days
Ihere will, I hope, set her up.
                                                                   to-day --she is here
          met Lady Whitworth on the esplanade
with Sir Joseph, and this afternoon we went to call on her. The
Ipoor old man is very feeble and greatly altered since
                                                                               saw him

last.

       Write here on receiving this. We shall take easy stages home,
but I don't  know that I
     M                         shall be  able to              (ginivceludyoinugT.anCHyh.aarHdledusrxe2sl)se--.y.Ever
             sends heaps       of love   to all
your loving  father,

     Tell the " Micropholis " man that it is a fossil lizard with an
armour of small scales.

    "1 It's like putting the shutters up," he said sadly to his wife, when he felt

unable to attend the Royal Academy dinner as he had done for many years.
     ! The cat.

                         CHAPTER VII

                                                       1885

On April 8, he landed at Folkestone, and stayed there
a day or two before going to London. Writing to Sir

Jh.omDeon:--nelly, he remarks with great satisfaction at getting

We got here this afternoon after a rather shady passage from

IBoulogne, with a strong north wind in our teeth all the way, and
rain galore.         timFoer--alslothpalte,asiat nits  the pleasantest journey    have made
for a long                                             to see one's own dear    native mud

again. There is no foreign mud to come near it.

And on the same day he sums up to Sir M. Foster the

amount of good he has gained from his expedition, and

the amount           of  good            any           patient  is  likely  to  get  from

travel :--

IAs for myself have nothing very satisfactory to say. By the
Ioddest chance we met Andrew Clark in the boat, and he says am
Ia very bad colour -- which take it is the outward and visible sign
Iof the inward and carnal state.
                                                             may sum that up by saying that

there is nothing the matter but weakness and indisposition to do

anything, together with a perfect genius for making mountains out

of molehills.

      After two or three fine days at Venice, we have had nothing but

wet or cold -- or hot and cold at the same time, as in that prodigious

Ifi"mppeorfsetcutrlyethe Riviera.        Of course it was the same   story everywhere,

     Moral.          --unexayomuplaerde  season."                    brave Italy --but
                                         perfectly well and strong,

in search of health stop at home.
     It has been raining cats and dogs, and Folkestone is what some

104          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE V                                           chap, vii

Ipeople would call dreary.      could go and roll in the mud with

satisfaction that it is English mud.                           Wife unites in love. -- Ever
                                                                        T. H. Huxley.
     It will be jolly to see you again.

yours,

     To return home was not only a great pleasure ; it gave

him a fillip for    the  time,  and                        he  writes  to  Sir  M. Foster,

April 1 2 :--

     IIt is very jolly to be home, and feel better already. Clark has

just been here overhauling me, and feels very confident that he

shall screw me up.
    I have
             Irenounced dining out and smoking (!!!) by way of pre
liminaries.
              God only knows whether shall be permitted more than
the smell of a mutton chop for dinner. But I have great faith in

Andrew, who set me straight before when other "physicians' aid

was vain."

      But his energy was fitful ; lassitude and depression again
invaded him. He was warned by Sir Andrew Clark to lay
aside all the burden of his work. Accordingly, early in May,

just after his sixtieth birthday, he sent in his formal resigna
tion of the Professorship of Biology, and the Inspectorship
of Salmon Fisheries ; while a few days later he laid his
resignation of the Presidency before the Council of the Royal

Society. By the latter he was begged to defer his final
decision, but his health gave no promise of sufficient amend
ment before the decisive Council meeting in October.

     He writes on May 27 :--

    I am convinced that what with my perennial weariness and my
Ideafness ought to go, whatever my kind friends may say.

     A curious effect of his illness was that for the first time

in his life he began to shrink involuntarily from assuming

responsibilities and from appearing on                         public occasions  ;  thus

he writes on June 16 :--

    I am sorry to say that the perkiness of last week 1 was only a
Ispurt, and have been in a disgusting state of blue devils lately.

Can't make out what it   for really have nothing the matter,
p.
      1
            a
                                                      is,

                                   I
except strong tendency to put the most evil construction upon

everything.

    i.e. at the unveiling of the Darwin statue at South Kensington.                 See
112.

1885 CONTINUED ILL-HEALTH                                          105

 I am   fairly dreading to-morrow  --[i.ep. rorbecaebivlyingan  the D.C.L. degree
        1] but why don't know                                   attack of modesty
Oxford
Iat

come on late in life and consequently severe.
Very likely it will do me good and make me " fit " for Thursday

[i.e. Council and ordinary meetings of Royal Society].

And a month --later :

I I I I Is--l[ioAkmenbelutahehireleamsvdwpeeeenovctmbtilaesoabenflneawnwidhdditilicihsnfheugatnhshkeeein----issastfiyhuutseenw,ktooc"uoaPlundrndoatbfmr.eyblMnlufioovearterslbdithewee,rtvo.ti"e"l]sr.orbruattLthhirvereearerth, wedriashyswex--oprsehbecautd."t

    And again :--

    I IEverybody tells me look so much better, that am really
Iashamed to go growling about, and confess that am continually in

a blue funk and hate the thought of any work --especially of scientific

or anything requiring prolonged attention.

At the end of July he writes to Sir W. Flower --

                                        4      Marlborough Place,
                                                  July 27, 1885.

My dear Flower -- I am particularly glad to hear that things

went right on Saturday, as my conscience rather pricked me for my
                              But it was the only chance we had of
desertion of the meeting.f  couple before the vacation --and you will
seeing our young married

rapidly arrive at a comprehension of the cogency of that argument

now.

    I will think well of your kind words about the Presidency. If I
Icould only get rid of my eternal hypochondria the work of the R.S.
Iwould seem little enough. At present,  am afraid of everything
Ithat involves responsibility to a degree that is simply ridiculous.
only wish I could shirk the inquiries am going off to hold in

Devonshire !

P.R.S. in a continual blue funk is not likely to be either
Idignified or useful ; and unless
October I am afraid I shall have     am in a better frame of mind in

                                   to go. -- Ever yours very faithfully,
                                               T. H. Huxley.

     A few weeks at Filey in August did him some good at

first ; and he writes cheerfully of his lodgings in " a place with

                                                          1 See p, 1 10.

                             2 British Museum Trustees, July 25.

io6                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  CHAP. VII

the worst-fitting doors and windows, and the hardest chairs,

--sofas, and beds known to my experience."

      He continues :

     I am decidedly picking up. The air here is wonderful, and as

we can set good cookery against hard lying (I don't mean in the
IMunchausen line) the consequent appetite becomes a mild source
of gratification.         Also,       have not met with more than two

people who knew me, and that in my present state is a negative

gratification of the highest order.

      Later on he tried Bournemouth ; being no better, he
thought of an entirely new remedy.

    IThe only thing am inclined to do is to write a book on
Miracles. I think it might do good and unload my biliary system.

      In this state of indecision, so unnatural to him, he writes

to Sir M. Foster :--

    I Iam anything but clear as to the course had best take myself.
IWhile undoubtedly much better in general health, am in a curious
state of discouragement, and I should like nothing better than to
Iremain buried here (Bournemouth) or anywhere else, out of the way

of trouble and responsibility. It distresses me to think that shall
have to say something definite about the Presidency at the meeting
of Council in October.

    Finally on October 20, he writes :--

Igraduatlhlyinkrisinthge--lbouwtestI  point of my curve of ups and downs is
                                      have by no means reached the point when
I Ican cheerfully face anything.
                                           got over the Board of Visitors
I(two hours and a half) better than expected, but my deafness was
a horrid nuisance.
     I believe the strings of the old fiddle will tighten up a good
Ideal, if
            --abstbauint  from attempting  to play upon the instrume nt
at present                that a few jigs  now will probably ruin that

chance.
     IBut I will say my final word at our meeting next week.
                                                              would

rather step down from the chair than dribble out of it. Even the

devil is in the habit of departing with a "melodious twang," and I

like the precedent.

      So at the Anniversary meeting on November 30, he
definitely announced in his last Presidential address his
resignation of that " honourable office " which he could no

                            RETIREMENT                                              I07

longer retain " with due regard to the interests of the Society,
and perhaps, I may add, of self-preservation."

    II am happy to say (he
Ibelieve that, with prolonged
                            croenstti--nubeyd)whthicaht   have good reason to
                                                         do not mean idleness,

Iabguetncreielesaswe hfircohmardeisctoramcmtioonnlyandkncoowmnpalestethferepedleoamsurefrsomofthsoosceietlyet--hal

may yet regain so much strength as is compatible with advancing

Iyears. But in order to do so, must, for a long time yet, be con

tent to lead a more or less anchoritic life. Now it is not fitting that

your President should be a hermit, and it becomes me, who have

received so much kindness and consideration from the Society, to

be particularly careful that no sense of personal gratification should
delude me into holding the office of its representative one moment

after reason and conscience have pointed out my incapacity to dis

charge the serious duties which devolve upon the President, with

Isome approach to efficiency.

          beg leave, therefore, with much gratitude for the crowning

honour of my life which you have conferred upon me, to be per
mitted to vacate the chair of the Society as soon as the business of

this meeting is at an end.

    The settlement of the terms of the pension upon which,

after thirty-one years of service under Government, he

retired from his Professorship at South Kensington and the
Inspectorship of Fisheries, took a considerable time. The

chiefs of his own department, that of Education, wished
him to retire upon full pay, £15 00 (see p. 21). The
Treasury were more economical. It was the middle of June
before the pension they proposed of £1200 was promised;

the end of July before he knew what conditions were

attached to it.

      On June    20, he  writes  to  Mr.  Mundella,      Vice-President
    the Council
of                :--

    My dear Mundella --Accept my warmest thanks for your

good wishes, and for all the trouble you have taken on my
Ibehalf.
          am quite ashamed to have been the occasion of so much

Inegotiation.                         am unable to judge what the
    Until I see the Treasury letter,      the result, I shall never

£1200 may really mean,* but whatever      have           fought   mHyubxaltetlye..  --forI

get the kindness with which my chiefs                      T. H.
am, yours very faithfully,

    1 i.e. whether he was to draw his salary of i£200 as Dean or not.

1o8         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, vii

     On July 1 6, he writes to Sir M. Foster :--

     IThe blessed Treasury can't make up their minds whether                 am
to be asked to stay on as Dean or not, and till they do, I can't

shake off any of my fetters.

       Early in the  oyferaersihgeninhgad:--written  to  Sir  John  Donnelly

of   the necessity

    INevertheless (he added), it will be a sad day for me when find
Imyself no longer entitled to take part in the work of the schools in

which you and have so long been interested.

      But that " sad day " was not to come yet. His con
nection with the Royal College of Science was not entirely
severed. He was asked to continue, as Honorary Dean, a
general supervision of the work he had done so much to
organise, and he kept the title of Professor of Biology, his
successors in the practical work of the chair being designated
Assistant Professors.

     " I retain," he writes, " general superintendence as part
of the great unpaid."

     It is  a comfort   (he writes to his son), to        have got   the  thing
            My great   desire at present is to be        idle, and         now
settled.                                                            I am

idle with a good conscience.

     Later in the year, however, a change of Ministry having

taken place, he was offered   a Civil List Pension            iot f:--£300   a
year by Lord Iddesleigh.      He replied accepting

                                                     4 Marlborough Place,
                                                             Nov. 24, 1885.

     My dear Lord Iddesle1gh --Your letters of the 20th Novem
Iber reached me only last night, and
Iboth of them.                                       hasten to thank you for

                     am particularly obliged for your kind reception of
what I ventured to say about the deserts of my old friend Sir Joseph

Hooker.

     With respect to your Lordship's offer to submit my name to Her

Majesty for a Civil List Pension, I can but accept a proposal which

is in itself an honour, and which is rendered extremely gratifying to
me by the great kindness of the expressions in which you have been

Ipleased to embody it.

      am happy to say that I am getting steadily better at last, and

1885 RETIREMENT                                                                                    109

under the regime of " peace with honour " that now seems to have
I Iofarlletwno.t--o myrelmota, in,
                                    may  fairly hope yet to do a good stroke of                    work
                                     my  dear Lord Iddesleigh, faithfully yours,
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

                                                     4 Marlborough Place,
                                                             Nov. 24, 1885.

My dear Donnelly -- I believe                        Iyou have been at work again !

Lord Iddesleigh has written to                       me to ask if will be recom
mended for a Civil List Pension of £300 a year, a very pretty
letter, not at all like the Treasury masterpiece you admired so

much.

    IDidn't see why should not accept, and have accepted accord

ingly. When the announcement comes out the Liberals will say
             --GoEvvte, rhayvoeursp,aid                           G.O.M.! to a dead
the Tory                                 me  for  attacking  the  T. H. Huxley.

certainty.

      Five days                     later he replies to the congratulations of
Mr. Eckersley                       (whose son had married Huxley's third

daughter) :--

. . . Lord Iddesleigh's letter offering to submit my name for an

honorary pension was a complete surprise.

My chiefs in the late Government wished to retire me on full

pay, but the Treasury did not see their way to                                                     and cut off
           a
                            a

                                 I

                                                                        is
                                                                                              it,
£300 year. Naturally                         am not sorry to have the loss made

good, but the way the thing was done                         perhaps the pleasantest

part of it.

      There was certain grim appropriateness in his " official
death " following hard upon his sixtieth birthday, for sixty

was the age at which he had long declared that men of

science ought to be strangled, lest age should harden them

against the reception of new truths, and make them into clogs

upon progress, the worse, in proportion to the influence they

had deservedly   Mw. oFno. sterTh--is    :           the allusion in a birthday

letter from Sir                                  is

Reverend Sir --So the " day of strangulation " has arrived at
last, and with the humble petition of your friends that you may be
             it

induced to defer the "happy dispatch" for, say at least ten years, when
the subject may again come up for consideration. For your petitioners

are respectfully inclined to think that              if      your sixtyship may be

induced so far to become an apostle as to give up the fishery
business, and be led to leave the Black Board at S.K. to others, the

no  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 chap, vii

t'other side sixty years, may after all be the best years of your life.

In any case they     would desire  to bring    under    your   --noEtviceer  the fact
that they feel they  want you as   much as   ever they   did.                thine,

                                                               M. F.

       Reference has been made to the fact that the honorary
degree of D.C.L. was conferred this May upon Huxley by
the University of Oxford. The Universities of the sister
kingdoms had been the first thus to recognise his work ;

and after Aberdeen and Dublin, Cambridge, where natural
science had earlier established a firm foothold, showed the

way to Oxford. Indeed, it was not until his regular scien
tific career was at an end, that the University of Oxford
opened its portals to him. So, as he wrote to Professor
Bartholomew Price on May 20, in answer to the invitation,

" It will be a sort of apotheosis coincident with my official
death, which is imminent. In fact, I am dead already, only

the Treasury Charon has not yet settled the conditions upon

which I am to be ferried over to the other side."
      Before leaving the subject of his connection with

the Royal Society, it may be worth while to give a last
example of the straightforward way in which he dealt
with a delicate point whether to vote or not to vote for his
friend Sir Andrew Clark who had been proposed for election

to the Society. It occurred just after his return from
abroad ; he explains his action to Sir Joseph Hooker, who
had urged caution on hearing a partial account of the

proceedings.

                                             South Kensington,
                                                 April 25, 1885.

    My dear Hooker -- I don't see very well how I could have
Ibeen more cautious than I have been.
                                             knew nothing of Clark's
Icandidature until saw his name in the list ; and if he or his pro
Iposer had consulted me,  should have advised delay, because I

knew very well there would be a great push made for                          this

year.
      Being there, however, it seemed to me only just to say that

which is certainly true, namely, that Clark has just the same claim

as half a dozen doctors who have been admitted without question,
e.g. Gull, Jenner, Risdon Bennett, on the sole ground of standing

in the profession. And I think that so long as that claim is ad

mitted, it will be unjust not to admit Clark.

1885 ROYAL SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION                                                                                 111

    I ISo said what you heard ; but was so careful not to press
unduly upon the Council, that I warned them of the possible pre

judice arising from my own personal obligations to Clark's skill, and
I went so far as not to put his name in the first list myself, a step
Iwhich now regret.
   If Ithis is not caution enough,
IAs Clive said when he came back
                                                                          should like  "tBo y  know   what        is ?
                                                                         from India,            God,  sir,        am
astonished at my own moderation ! "
If it is not right to make a man a fellow because he holds a first-
class place as a practitioner of medicine as the R.S. has done since
I have known
                     let us abolish the practice. But then let us also
I
    I

                             it,

                               I
                                                                      ,

                                      I
in justice refuse to recognise the half-and-half claims, those of the

people who are third-rate as practitioners, and hang on to the skirts

of science without doing anything in it.
Several of your and my younger scientific friends are bent on

bringing in their chum                     and Clark's                           coafndtihdeat"uroeutspvoekreyninacvoenr
venient to them. Hence                   suspect some                                  a
sion " and criticism of Clark's claims you have heard.                                            is

                                                                                                               ;
am quite willing to sacrifice my friend for principle, but not

for somebody else's friend, and mean to vote for Clark though

--aEmvenrotyoguorisngfatitohfturyllyt,o  force  my                       notion  down  any one  else's throat.

                                                                                         T. H.  Huxley.

On the same subject he writes to Sir M. Foster --
                                                                                       iIf I
Obedience be hanged. It would not lie in my mouth, as the
                                                                                              if
                                                                                                        :

                                                                                                                   a
Iflawyers say, to object to anybody's getting his own way he can.
     Clark had not been personal friend of mine                                                 should not
                       I
have hesitated moment about deciding in his favour. Under theit it a
               I it a
circumstances        was quite clear what should do                                             were forced
                   if                                                    I

to decide, and thought would have been kindly and courteous

to the President he had been let off the necessity of making

If,decision which was obviously disagreeable to him.
          on the other hand, was wished to fix the responsibility of

what happened on him, am glad that he had the opportunity of

accepting  it.       never was more clear as to what was the right

             I

thing to do.

     So also at other times he writes in September to Sir;
M. Foster, the Secretary, with reference to evening gatherings
at which smoking should be permitted.

          am not at all sure that                                         Bournemouth, Sept. 17, 1885.
" Tabagie." When heard of
I                                                                         can give my blessing to the
                  I                                                      had great doubts as to its being
                                iIt I

112            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, vii

a wise move. It is not the question of " smoke " so much, as the

principle of having meetings in the Society's rooms, which are not

practically (whatever they may be theoretically), open to all the
fellows, and which will certainly be regarded as the quasi-private
parties of one of the officers. You will have all sorts of jealousies

roused, and talk of a clique, etc.

    I IWhen was Secretary the one thing was most careful to avoid
was the appearance of desiring to exert any special influence. But
Ithere was a jealousy of the x Club, and only the other day, to my
great amusement,  was talking to an influential member of the

Royal Society  Club about the possibility of fusing it     with the   "  Phil.
Club, and he   Isaid,                                       latter :     Oh !
                                        member of                        dull-
we don't want  any                        ! " Poor
                  forgetting was a                    the  innocent
                  of those wirepullers              dear

as-ditchwater Phil. Club !

     Mention has already been made of the unveiling of the

Darwin statue at South Kensington on June 9, when, as
President of the Royal Society, Huxley delivered an address

in the name of the Memorial Committee, on handing over

the statue of Darwin to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, as re

presentative    of the Trustees of the British Museum.                   The
concluding
              words of the speech deserve quotation :--

      We do not make this request [i.e. to accept the statue] for the
mere sake of perpetuating a memory ; for so long as men occupy
themselves with the pursuit of truth, the name of Darwin runs no
more risk of oblivion than does that of Copernicus, or that of

Harvey.
      Nor, most assuredly, do we ask you to preserve the statue in

its cynosural position in this entrance hall of our National Museum
of Natural History as evidence that Mr. Darwin's views have
received your official sanction ; for science does not recognise
such sanctions, and commits suicide when it adopts a creed.

      No, we beg you to cherish this memorial as a symbol by which,
as generation after generation of students enter yonder door, they
shall be reminded of the ideal according to which they must shape
their lives, if they would turn to the best account the opportunities
offered by the great institution under your charge.

     Nor was this his only word about Darwin. Somewhat
later, Professor Mivart sent him the proofs of an article on

Darwin, asking for his criticism, and received the following

reply, which describes better than almost any other docu
ment, the nature of the tie which united Darwin and his

                   THE DARWIN STATUE                                                                                       113

friends, and  :--incidentally  touches                                               the  question  of Galileo's
recantation

                                                                                                   Nov. 12, 1885.

My dear Mr. Mivart --I return your proof with many thanks

for your courtesy in sending       fully appreciate the good feeling
II
               I

                    aI
                                                       it.
                                 I
                                       I
shown in what you have written, but as you ask my opinion, had
                                                                                          is
better say frankly that my experience of Darwin
                                                                                                      II
                                                                                                    widely different

from yours as expressed in the passages marked with pencil.                                                                have

often remarked that never knew any one of his intellectual rank

who showed himself so tolerant to opponents, great and small, as
Darwin did. Sensitive he was in the sense of being too ready to be

depressed by adverse comment, but never knew any one less easily

hurt by fair criticism, or who less needed to be soothed by those

who opposed him with good reason.

ebluict i--tin"gamamndorseutrheethnanfotlrlioe"wdWedehlilssothmpeaertetihe'sinncgea   often enough, without ever
                                                                                     good deal in what you say
                                                                                     which nine times out of ten
                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                  ;
showed he had gone deeper into the business than had.

cannot agree with you, again, that the acceptance of Darwin's

views was in any way influenced by the strong affection entertained

for him by many of his friends. What that affection really did was
to lead those of his friends who had seen good reason for his views

to take much more trouble in his defence and support, and to strike

out much harder at his adversary   than they                                               would    otherwise              have
done. This pardonable not          justifiable                                                      which you               sug
                                                                                          -- that
II

             is
                   is

                  is I

                               It
                                    it if

                              I
                                      I

                                                                           a

                                                        I
                                                         I

                                                                                if

                                                                                                                        a
gest would to my mind be neither.

am so ignorant of what has been going on during the last

twelvemonth, that       know nothing of your controversy with
                   going to show the evolution of intellect from
Romanes. If he

sense, he the man for whom have been waiting, as Kant says.
     In your paper about scientific freedom, which read some time

ago with much interest, you alluded to book or article by Father
Roberts on the Galileo business. Will you kindly send me post

card to say where and when was published?

looked into the matter when was in Italy, and arrived at

the conclusion that the Pope and the College of Cardinals had

rather the best   of it.     would complete the                                           wpaaryasd. o--x        Father
Roberts should    help me  to see the error of my                                                          Ever yours
                                                                                          T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

      August and September, as said above, were spent in                                                   I
England, though with little good effect. Filey was not
success for either himself or his wife. Bournemouth, where                                                            aa

they joined their eldest daughter and her family, offered

     VOL. II

I 14

" temperature much more to the taste of both of us," and at
least undid the mischief done by the wet and cold of the

north.

     The mean line of health was gradually rising ; it was a

great relief to be free at length from administrative distrac
tions, while the retiring pensions removed the necessity of

daily toil. By nature he was like the friend whom he
described as " the man to become hipped to death without
incessant activity of some sort or other. I am sure that the

habit of incessant work into which we all drift is as bad in
its way as dram-drinking. In time you cannot be comfort
able without the stimulus." But the variety of interests

which filled his mind prevented him from feeling the void
of inaction after a busy life. And just as he was at the

turning-point in health,  he received      a fillip  which started
him again into vigorous                     mental   tonic bracing
                          activity -- the

up his body and clearing away the depression and languor

which had so long beset him.
     The lively fillip came in the shape of an article in the

November Nineteenth Century, by Mr. Gladstone, in which

he attacked the position taken up by Dr. Reville in his

Prolegomena to the History of Religions, and in part -iar,
attempted to show that the order of creation given in

Genesis  supported by the evidence of science. This
         i.,
             is

                                                                    ;

                                                                                    a
                                                                                        p.
article, Huxley used humorously to say, so stirred his bile

as to set his liver right at once and though he denied the

soft impeachment that the ensuing fight was what had set
him up, the marvellous curative effects of Gladstonian

dose, a remedy unknown to the pharmacopoeia, became a

household word among family and friends.
      His own reply, " The Interpreters of Genesis and the

Interpreters of Nature," appeared in the December number

of the Nineteenth Century (Collected Essays, iv.                                            139). In
January 1886 Mr. Gladstone responded with his "Proem to
Genesis," which was met in February by " Mr. Gladstone

and Genesis" (Collected Essays, iv. p.     164).     Not only did
he show that science offers no support     to the    " fourfold " or
the " fivefold " or any other order obtained from Genesis by

Mr. Gladstone, but in note appended to his second articlea
he gives what he takes to be the proper sense of the

1885 CONTROVERSY WITH MR. GLADSTONE

" Mosaic" narrative of the Creation (iv. p. 195), not allowing
the succession of phenomena to represent an evolutionary
notion, as suggested, of a progress from lower to higher in
the scale of being, a notion assuredly not in the mind of the

writer, but deducing this order from such ideas as, putting
aside our present knowledge of nature, we may reasonably
believe him to have held.

     A vast subsidiary controversy sprang up in the Times

on Biblical exegetics ; where these touched him at all, as, for

instance, when it was put to him whether the difference
between the " Rehmes " of Genesis and " Sheh-retz " of
Leviticus, both translated " creeping things," did not in
validate his argument as to the identity of such " creeping

things," he had examined the point already, and surprised

his interrogator, who appeared to have raised a very pretty

dilemma, by promptly referring him to a well-known Hebrew

commentator.

       Several letters refer   to  this passage of       arms.  On
December 4, he writes to      Mr.  Herbert Spencer
                                                     :  --

    Do read my polishing off of the G.O.M. I am proud of it as a
wo ' i( art, and as evidence that the volcano is not yet exhausted.

              To Lord Farrer

                                                             4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                         Dec. 6, 1885.

My dear Farrer--From a scientific point of view Gladstone's

article was undoubtedly not worth powder and shot. But, on per

sonal grounds, the perusal of it sent me blaspheming about the

Ihoofuyseearws --ithtothme yfirwstifeh'seagltrheyat  wrath known for a couple
              expression of                          should have " busted up "

              alarm -- and
if I had not given vent to my indignation ; and secondly, all ortho

doxy was gloating over the slap in the face which the G.O.M. had

administered to science in the person of Reville.

The ignorance of the so-called educated classes in this country

is stupendous, and in the hands of people like Gladstone it is a

Ipolitical force. Since became an official of the Royal Society,

Igood taste seemed to me to dictate silence about matters on which

there is "great division among us." But now have recovered my
Ifreedom, and am greatly minded to begin stirring the fire afresh.
IfWithin the last month I have picked up wonderfully.
                                                                dear
Iold Darwin were alive he would say it is because have had a fight,
Ibut in truth the fight is consequence and not cause.
                                                        am infinitely

n6         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                           chap, vii

relieved by getting rid of the eternal strain of the past thirty years,
and hope to get some good work done yet before I die, so make
                                                                    IHhuaxveleayl.ways
ready   for the part      of the  judicious bottle-holder  which
found                     yours   very faithfully,         T. H.
        you. -- Ever

                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                          Jan. 13, 1886.

      My dear Farrer -- My contribution to the next round was
finished and sent to Knowles a week ago. I confess it to have

been a work of supererogation ; but the extreme shiftiness of my

antagonist provoked me, and I was tempted to pin him and dissect

him as an anatomico-psychological exercise. May it be accounted

unto me for righteousness, though I laughed so much over the

operation that I deserve no credit.

     I think your notion is a very good one, and I am not sure that
I shall not try to carry it out some day. In the meanwhile, however,
I am bent upon an enterprise which I think still more important.

    After I have done with the reconcilers, I will see whether

theology cannot be told her place rather more plainly than she has

yet been dealt with.
      However, this between ourselves, I am seriously anxious to use
what little stuff remains to me well, and I am not sure that I can
do better service anywhere than in this line, though I don't mean
                                         if I can
to have any more           controversy             whiecklpedinte. ss.)T.--HE.veHruyxoleurys.  very
                          and repeat    Darwin's
      (Don't laugh
faithfully,

      However, this "contribution to the next round" seemed to

the editor rather too pungent in tone. Accordingly Huxley
           the letters which follow describing the process --
reviseda

          ;

              it,

                               ;

                                 ;I

                                                          a

                                                                                   4
                                                                                a;

                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                         is

                                                                  I

                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                                                      :
                                                   Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                   Jan. 15, 1886.

      My dear Knowles -- will be with you at 1.30.                  spent three
mortal hours this morning taming my wild cat. He
                                                                                              now cas

trated  "  mhiiseute"eth   are  filed his claws are cut he taught                             to swear
like                      and   to spit like cough and when he                                   turned
                                                                    --HEuvxelreyyo. urs,
out of the bag you won't know him from             tame    rabbit.

                                                            T. H.

                                                   Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                            Jan. 20, 1886.
           I
                  I

                                         it
                                                 is is

                                                                   4

                                                                I

                                                                                          it
     My dear Knowles -- Here            the debonnaire animal finally

titivated, and quite agree, much        improved, though                                    mostuarnndst--he
loss of some of the spice. But           an awful smash as
worse than the first, think.

1886 CONTROVERSY WITH MR. GLADSTONE                                                                                    117

I shall send you the MS. of the Evolution of Theology today or
               It will not do to divide
Ito-morrow.

              a
                       it it

                      I

                                           it
                                                              it,

                                              I

                                                                             it
                                                                                  is
                                                                                                               a

                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                       is
                                                      as want the reader to have

an aperfu of the whole process from Samuel of Israel to Sammy of

Oxford.

am afraid will make thirty or thirty-five pages, but                                                              really

very interesting, though say as shouldn't.

Please have set up in slip, though, as                                                           written after the

manner of judge's charge, the corrections will not be so extensive,

nor the strength of language so well calculated to make judicious

editor's hair  sstatantde).o--n Eevned,r  as was the  case with  the                             He.ncHlosuexdley(i.n  its
unregenerate                              yours very  truly,
                                                                 T.

      Some time later, on September 14, 1890, writing to
Mr. Hyde Clarke, the philologist, who was ten years his

senior, he remarks on his object in undertaking this con

troversy --
I
               :

                       is
                           a
am glad to see that you are as active-minded as ever.                                                             have
                                                      is

                                                                          I
no doubt there                great deal in what you say about the origin of

the myths in Genesis. But my sole point to get the people who

persist in regarding them as statements of fact to understand that

they are fools.

The process laborious, and not yet very fruitful of the desiredis

conviction.

                 To Sir Joseph Prestwich

                                                      Marlborough Place, N.W.,
I
     II                                               January 16, 1886.

           is
                                      it
                                               is

                                     I
                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                       a

                                                                                I
     My dear Prestwich -- Accept my best thanks for the volume
of your Geology, which has just reached me.

envy the vigour which has led you to tackle such                                                 task, and

have no doubt that when turn to your book for information

shall find reason for more envy in the thoroughness with which the

task done.

see Mr. Gladstone has been trying to wrest your scripture to

his own purposes, but           no good.              waNsehi.th--erEvtehre                      fourfold nor the
fivefold nor the sixfold      order will                                                         yours very faith
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.
fully,

                     To Professor Poulton

                                                                       Marlborough Place,

                                                                                                  Feb. 19, 1886.

     Dear Mr. Poulton -- return herewith the number of the
Expositor with many thanks. Canon Driver's article contains as

                                   Hope Professor of Zoology at Oxford.
                 1

                             I
                                                                     4
                                                                                              *

[i8           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                              CHAP. VII

clear and candid a statement as I could wish of the position of the
Pentateuchal cosmogony from his point of view. If he more
                                                                    actual nature of paleontological succes
tsnhieoownr,o----ugIahnmlydeauinfnhdteehresmtoosropeedcfieuthslley  by species replacement of old forms by

                                                                     appreciated the great gulf fixed between
the ideas of "creation " and of "evolution," I think he would see (1)
that the Pentateuch and science are more hopelessly at variance

than even he imagines, and (2) that the Pentateuchal cosmogony
does not come so near the facts of the case as some other ancient

cosmogonies, notably those of the old Greek philosophers.

     Practically, Canon Driver, as a theologian and Hebrew scholar,
gives up the physical truth of the Pentateuchal cosmogony alto
gether. All the more wonderful to me, therefore, is the way in

which he holds on to it as embodying theological truth. So far as

this question is concerned, on all points which can be tested, the

iPsehnitsataeuutchhoarlitywroitnerthsetatemsatttheart--wchreicahtionis    not      true. What, therefore,
                                                                           by
                                                                                   a Deity -- which cannot
be tested ? What sort of " inspiration " is that which leads to the

promulgation of a fable as divine truth, which forces those who

believe in that inspiration to hold on, like grim death, to the literal

truth of the fable, which demoralises them in seeking for all sorts

of sophistical shifts to bolster up the fable, and which finally is dis

credited and repudiated when the fable is finally proved to be
              If Satan had wished
a fable ?  "                                                              to devise the  best means  of dis
crediting     Revelation " he could                                       not have done  better.

      Have you not forgotten to mention the leg of Archaeopteryx as

a characteristically bird-like structure? It is so, and it is to be

recollected that at present  we know                                      nothing    of the   greater part of
the skeletons of the older   mesozoic                                     mammals             teeth and jaws.
                                                                                     -- only

W--hEavtertheyosuhrsouvldereyr-gfairidthlefulolyf , Stereognathus         might           be  like is uncertain.

                                                                                         T.   H. Huxley.

     The following letters have a curious interest as showing

what, in the eyes of a supporter of educational progress,

might and     :--might  not  be                                     done  at Oxford  to help on scientific
education

                                                                    4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                                  Dec. 21, 1885.

    My dear Master *-- I have been talking to some of my friends

about stimulating the Royal Society to address the Universities on
the subject of giving greater weight to scientific acquirements, and

     1 This is from the first draft of the letter. Huxley's letters to Jowett were
destroyed by Jowett's orders, together with the rest of his correspondence.

                  SCIENCE AT OXFORD                                                          ng

if I find that there is a better prospect than I had hoped for of getting
President and Council to move. But I am not quite sure about

the course which it will be wisest for us to adopt, and I beg a little

counsel on that matter.
I presume that we had better state our wishes in the form of a

letter to the Vice-Chancellor, and that we may prudently ask for the

substitution for modern languages (especially German) and elementary
science for some of the subjects at present required in the literary
Ifpart of the examinations of the scientific and medical faculties.
                                                                                             we

could gain this much it would be a great step, not only in itself, but
                  on the schools. -- Ever yours
in its reaction                                  very faithfully,

                                                       T. H. Huxley.

                                                 4 Marlborough Place,

                                                 Dec. 26, 1885.

    My dear Foster -- Please read the enclosed                                letter from Jowett
(confidentially). I had suggested the possibility                             of diminishing the

Greek and Latin for the science and medical people, but that, you

see, he won't have. But he is prepared to load the classical people

with science by way of making things fair.

It may be worth our while to go in for this, and trust to time for

the other. What say you ?      The G.O.M. is going to reply, so I
      Merry Christmas to you.
Iam likely to have a happy New Year !                                         and I
                                          gooedxpeecatrnessotm. --e Efuvne,r
mean to make it an occasion for some                                           yours
                                                                              T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

      So ends 1885, and with it closes another definite period
of Huxley's life. Free from official burdens and official

restraints, he was at liberty to speak out on any subject ; his
strength for work was less indeed, but his time was his own ;
there was hope that he might still recover his health for a
few more years. And though the ranks of his friends were
beginning to thin, though he writes (May 20, to Professor

Bartholomew Price) :--

      The "  aggaepsth"aat roeneterrreiablliesesactchoemfpuallnitmruetnhtsofofGaodetvhaen'scinqgualifter.ainIt:--is
only with

                  Eine Bruche ist ein jeder Tag, etc.

and again :---

The x Club is going to smithereens, as if a charge of dynamite

had been exploded in the midst of         Busk slowly fading away.
         is,

          I

                                     a
                                                               it.

                                          I
                                                                          is
Tyndall           fear, in  bad way, and         am very anxious about

Hooker.

120  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y  CHAP. VII

     Still the club hung together for many years, and outside
it were other devoted friends, who would have echoed Dr.

Foster's good wishes on the last day of the year :--

     A Happy New Year ! and many of them, and may you more
and more demonstrate the folly of strangling men at sixty.

          CHAPTER VIII

                        1886

The controversy with Mr. Gladstone indicates the nature of

the subject that Huxley took up for the employment of his

newly obtained leisure. Chequered as this leisure was all

through the year by constant illness, which drove him again

and again to the warmth of Bournemouth or the brisk airs
of the Yorkshire moors in default of the sovereign medicine
of the Alps, he managed to write two more controversial
articles this year, besides a long account of the " Progress of

Science," for Mr. T. Humphry Ward's book on The Reign

of Queen  Victoria, which was  to   celebrate the Jubilee    year
                               the    last time, however
1887.     Examinations -- for                              -- the

meetings of the Eton Governing Body, the business of the

Science Schools, the Senate of the London University, the

Marine Biological Association, the Council of the Royal

Society, and a round dozen of subsidiary committees, all

claimed his attention. Even when driven out of town by

his bad health he would come up for a few days at a time

to attend necessary meetings.
      One of the few references of this period to biological

research is contained in a letter to Professor Pelseneer of

Ghent, a student of the Mollusca, who afterwards completed

for Huxley the long unfinished monograph on "Spirula" for

the Challenger Report.

                                    4 Marlborough Place,
                                           Jan. 8, 1886.

IDear Sir -- Accept my best thanks for the present of your
publications. As you may imagine    find that on the cretaceous

I 22               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, viii

crustaceans very interesting.                It was a rare chance to find the

branchiae preserved.

    I am glad to be able to send you a copy of my memoir on the
morphology of the Mollusca. It shows signs of age outside, but I

beg you to remember           that    it is  33 years old.        consulting.  It has
                            think     you    find it still worth
    I am rejoiced to

always been        my  intention to return to   the subject       some day, and to
try to justify     my                           think they        may be justified.
                       old conclusions -- as I

      But   it is   very    doubtful   whether my intention       will  now    ever be
carried    into    effect.            yours very faithfully,
                            -- I am                               T. H. Huxley.

      Mr. Gladstone's second article appeared in the January

number of          :--the   Nineteenth       Century, to this the following
                                                   4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
letter refers

                                                Jan. 21, 1886.

      My dear Skelton -- Thanks for your capital bit of chaff. I

took a thought and began to mend (as Burns' friend and my proto
type (G.O.M.) is not yet recorded to have done) about a couple of
months ago, and then Gladstone's first article caused such a flow of

bile that I have been the better for it ever since.
    I need not tell you I am entirely crushed by his reply-- still the

worm will turn and there is a faint squeak (as of a rat in the mouth
of a terrier) about to be heard in the next Nineteenth.

     But seriously, it is to me a grave thing that the destinies of this

country should at present be                 seriously influenced by    ----a miWsainnt,hotwhbhienosg,t
whatever he may be in the affairs
but a copious shuffler, in those              of which I am no judge
                                             which I do understand.

wishes to Mrs. Skelton and yourself, ever yours very faithfully,
                                                                      T. H. Huxley.

      With the article in the February number of the Nineteenth

Century, he concluded his tilt with Mr. Gladstone upon the
interpretation of Genesis. His supposed " unjaded appetite"

for controversy was already satiated ; and he begged leave
to retire from " that ' atmosphere of contention ' in which

Mr. Gladstone has been able to live, alert and vigorous

beyond the common race of men, as if it were purest

mountain air," for the " Elysium " of scientific debate, which

" suits my less robust constitution better." A vain hope.

Little as     he liked controversy at           baottopmlea, suirnablsepiteskiollf--thien
             must be allowed, at times,
skill -- it

using the weapons of debate, he was not to avoid it any

1886 THE EVOLUTION OF THEOLOGY                                                                123

more than he was to avoid the east wind when he went to
Bournemouth from early in February till the end of March,

of which he writes on February 23 :--

     The " English Naples " is rather Florentine so far as a bitter
cold east wind rather below than above o°C. goes, but from all I
hear it is a deal better than London, and I am picking up in spite
of wish were a Holothuria, and could get on without my
it.

  I

      I
            I
viscera.  should do splendidly then.

      Here he wrote a long article on the " Evolution of Theo
logy " {Collected Essays, iv. 287) which appeared in the

March and April numbers of the Nineteenth Century. It

was a positive statement of the views he had arrived at,
                   the very partial -- and therefore
which underlay                                                       mislead
                   of them possible in controversy.
ing -- exposition                                                    He dealt

with the subject, not with reference to the truth or falsehood

of the notions under review, but purely as a question of
anthropology, " department of biology to which have at
               a                                                     a
                          a  good deal of attention." Starting
various times given                                                    I

with the  familiar ground of                                                               :
explains  the paleontological      mtheethoHdebhreewpropSocsreipstutroesa,dhoeptth--us

In the venerable record of ancient life, miscalled book, when

       really library comparable to selection of works from English
literature between the times of Beda and those of Milton, we have
it
    is

                      a
                                                              a

the stratified deposits (often confused and even with their natural
order inverted) left by the stream of the intellectual and moral life
of Israel during many centuries. And, embedded in these strata,

there are numerous remains of forms of thought which once lived,

and which, though often unfortunately mere fragments, are of price

less value to the anthropologist.  Our task                      is  to rescue these from

their relatively unimportant surroundings, and by careful comparison

with existing forms of theology to make the dead world which

they record live again.

     A subsequent letter to Professor Lewis Campbell, bears
upon this essay. It was written in answer to an enquiry

prompted by the comparison here drawn between the
primitive spiritual theories of the books of Judges and

Samuel, and the very similar development of ideas among

the Tongans, as described by Mariner, who lived many years

among the natives.

124               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chai\ viii

                                                          Hodeslba, Oct. 10, IS94,

    My dear Campbell -- I took a good deal of trouble years ago
to satisfy myself about the point you mention, and I came to the

conclusion that Mariner was eminently trustworthy, and that Martin

was not only an honest, but a shrewd and rather critical, reporter.

The story he tells about testing Mariner's version of King Theebaw's

oration shows his frame of mind (and is very interesting otherwise
Iin relation to oral tradition).
                                   Polynesia,             but of all I possess and
        have a lot of books about

have read, Mariner is to my mind the most trustworthy.
     The missionaries are apt to colour everything, and they never

have the chance of knowing the interior life as Mariner knew
It

  I

                               aa
                                                                              !
                                                                                                     !

                                                                                                                                         it.
    was this conviction that led me to make Mariner my cheval de
bataille in " Evolution of Theology."

       am giving great deal of trouble-- ill for the last week, and

at present  with      sharp  --luEmvbeargyoourss,o  nice  With our love to Mrs.
Campbell    and   yourself                                             T. H. H.

     The circumstances under which the following letter was

written are these. The activity of the Home Rulers and
the lethargy of Unionists had caused one side only of the

great question then agitating English politics, to be repre

sented in the American press, with the result that the funds
of the Nationalists were swelled by subscriptions from

persons who might have acted otherwise the arguments on
                                   a
                                       a

                                                  if
the other side had been adequately laid before them.

     Mr. Albert Grey, M.P., therefore had arranged for                              a

series of clear, forcible pronouncements from strong repre

sentative Englishmen against                        separate Parliament, to be

cabled over to New York to syndicate of influential news

papers, and his American advisers desired that the opening

statement should be from Huxley.

     Although will be seen from the letter that he would
                   it
not undertake this task, Mr. Grey showed the letter to one
or two of the leading Liberal Unionists to strengthen theirI

hands, and begged            permission to          publish          for the benefit
                               Accordingly,         it
of the whole party.                                              it
of April 13, 1886.                                        appeared in the Times

                                                    Casil1ni, W. Bournemouth,
                                                               March 21, 1886.

     Dear Mr. Grey -- am as much opposed to the Home Rule

scheme as any one can possibly be, and                       were political man
                                                          iIf

                                                                                a

iS86 HOME RULE                                                                   125

I Iwould fight against it as long as had any breath left in me ; but
I have carefully kept out of the political field all my life, and it
is too late for me now to think of entering it.

Anxious watching of the course of affairs for many years past

has persuaded me that nothing short of some sharp and sweeping

national misfortune will convince the majority of our countrymen

that government by average opinion is merely a circuitous method

of going to the devil ; and that those who profess to lead but in

fact slavishly follow this average opinion are simply the fastest

runners and the loudest squeakers of the herd which is rushing

blindly down to its destruction.
It is the electorate, and especially the Liberal electorate, which
is responsible for the present state of things. It has no political
              It knows well enough that 2 and 2 won't make 5 in
education.

a ledger, and that sentimental stealing in private life is not to be

tolerated ; but it has not been taught the great lesson in history

that there are like verities in national life, and hence it easily falls

a prey to any clever and copious fallacy-monger who appeals to its

great heart instead of reminding it of its weak head.
     Politicians have gone on flattering and cajoling this chaos of

political incompetence until the just penalty of believing their own
fictions has befallen them, and the average member of Parliament

is conscientiously convinced that it is his duty, not to act for his

constituents to the best of his judgment, but to do exactly what

they, or rather the small minority which drives them, tells him

to do.

Have we a real statesman? a man of the calibre of Pitt or

Burke, to say nothing of Strafford or Pym, who will stand up and

tell his countrymen that this disruption of the union is nothing but
aabcleoweavridl--ly ewspicekceidanllyessto--tahne
                                                   act bad  in  itself, fraught  with immeasur
                                                   people   of  Ireland ; and
                                                                                  that if it cost

his political existence, or his head, for that matter, he is prepared

to take any and every honest means of preventing the mischief?

    I see no sign of any. And if such a man should come to the

front what chance is there of his receiving loyal and continuous

support from a majority of the House of Commons? I see no

sign of any.

There was a time when the political madness of one party was

sure to be checked by the sanity, or at any rate the jealousy of
Ithe other. At the last election
                                                            should have voted for the Con

servatives (for the first time in my life) had it not been for Lord

IRandolph Churchill ; but thought that by thus jumping out of the
IGladstonian frying-pan into the Churchillian fire should not mend
Imatters, so abstained altogether.

Mr. Parnell has great qualities. For the first time the Irish

malcontents have a leader who is not eloquent, but who is honest ;

126               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                               CHAP. VIII

who knows what he wants and faces the risks involved in getting

it. Our poor Right Honourable Rhetoricians are no match for this
Iman who understands realities.
                                 believe also that Mr. Parnell's

success will destroy the English politicians who permit themselves

to be his instruments, as soon as bitter experience of the con
sequences has brought Englishmen and Scotchmen (and I will add
Irishmen) to their senses.
     I suppose one ought not to  be sorry for
are                               fall all will  ltahmaet ntr.e--sultI,   but  there
     men among them over whose                                           am,   yours
                                                 T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

     Some of the newspapers took these concluding paragraphs

to imply support of Parnell, so that  at  the    end   of June                 he

writes :--

     IThe Tribune man seems to have less intelligence than might be
expected.         spoke approvingly of the way in which Parnell had

carried out his policy, which is rather different from approving the

policy itself.

     But these newspaper scribes don't take the trouble to under

stand what they read.

     While at Bournemouth he also finished and sent off to

the Youth's Companion, an American paper, an article on the
evolution of certain types of the house, called " From the

Hut to the Pantheon." Beginning with a description of the

Pantheon, that characteristically Roman work with its vast

dome, so strongly built that it  is   the        only  great                   dome

remaining without a flaw :--

    IFor a long time (he says) was perplexed to know what it was

about the proportions of the interior of the Pantheon which gave
me such a different feeling from that made by any other domed

space I had ever entered.

      The secret of this he finds in the broad and simple
design peculiar to the building, and then shows in detail how

the round hut, the ^Edes Vestae, and the Pantheon are so many

stages in a process of architectural evolution which was effected
between the first beginnings of Roman history and the Augustan age.

     The relation between the beehive hut, the terremare, and

the pile-dwellings of Italy lead to many suggestive bits of
early anthropology, which, it may be hoped, bore fruit in the
minds of some of his youthful readers.

1886 LETTER TO H. SPENCER                                                                                   127

      We find him also reading over proofs for Mr. Herbert
Spencer, who, although he might hesitate to ask for his
criticism with respect to a subject on which they had a
" standing difference," still

concluded that to break through the long-standing usage, in pur

suance of which I have habitually submitted my biological writing

tliokeyoaudr isctraussttigaotifony,ouar ncdansdoouorft--ena  profited        by so  doing, would seem
                                                             distrust       which
                                                                                    I cannot entertain.

     So he wrote in January; and                                     on March       19 he wrote

again, with another set of proofs --

Toujours l'audace ! More proofs to look over. Don't write a

critical essay, only marginal notes. Perhaps you will say, like the

Roman      poet to the    wphooetraesptleier d,wh"oOansekeedrashuirme        to     esruafsfeicean"y--ppaesrshaagpess
he did  not like, and                                                       will

you will say, "There needs only one marginal note."

To this he received answer :--

                                                             Casalini, W. Bournemouth,
                                                                        March 22, 1886.

My dear Spencer -- More power to your elbow ! You will find

my blessing at the end of the proof.

But please look very carefully at some comments which are not

Imerely sceptical criticisms, but deal with matters of fact.
          see the difference between us on the speculative question lies
                                                                                    I conceive it as a
in the conception of the primitive protoplasm.
mechanism set going by heat -- as a sort of active crystal with the
capacity of giving rise to a great number of pseudomorphs ; and I

conceive that external conditions favour one or the other pseudo

morph, but leave the fundamental mechanism untouched.

You appear to me to suppose that external conditions modify
the machinery, as if by transferring a flour-mill into a forest you
Icould make it into a saw-mill.
                                                             am too         much of a sceptic    to deny
Itwhiethptohsesoibloigliyty--ofbuatnyIthdinogn'--t seesepemciyallwy ayasto  am now so much     occupied

                                                                            your conclusion.
    IAnd that is

from working it
suggest. For as
                          all the more reason why                           thedon"'tonweanteratsourseto"p  you
                          out, or rather to make                                                            you
                          to stopping you, " ten on
                                                                            me might," as the navvy

said to   t--he   little   special constable who             threatened to take him                         into
custody.         Ever     yours very faithfully,                          T. H. Huxley.

Warmth and sea-fogs here for a variety.

One more letter may be given from this time at Bourne

128        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  CHAP. VIII

mouth--a letter      to his eldest     daughter on the loss of her
infant son :--
                                          Casalini, W. Bournemouth,
                                                       March 2, 1886.

      It's very sad  to lose your child just when    he was beginning to
bind himself to                                      is much consolation
                     you, and I don't know that it

to reflect that the longer he had wound himself up in your heart

strings the worse the tear would have been, which seems to have

been inevitable sooner or later. One does not weigh and measure

these things while grief is fresh, and in my experience a deep plunge

into the waters of sorrow is the hopefullest way of getting through
them on to one's daily road of life again. No one can help another
very much in these crises of life ; but love and sympathy count for

something, and you know, dear child, that you have these in fullest

measure from us.

     On coming up to London in April he was very busy,

among other things, with a proposal that the Marine Biologi

cal Association, of which he was President, should urge the

Government to appoint a scientific adviser to the Fishery

Board. A letter of his on this subject had appeared in

the Times for March 30. There seemed to him, with his
practical experience of official work, insuperable objections

to the status of such an officer. Above all, he would be a

representative of science in name, without any responsibility

to the body of scientific men in the country. Some of his

younger colleagues on the Council, who had not enjoyed the

same experience, thought that he had set aside their expres

sions of opinion too brusquely, and begged Sir M. Foster, as at

once a close friend of his, and one to whose opinion he paid

great respect, to make representations to him on their behalf,

which he did in writing, being kept at home by a cold. To

this letter, in which his friend begged him not to be vexed

at a very plain statement of the other point of view, but to

make it    hpeosrseibpleliedfo:r--the  younger  men  to continue to follow
his lead,

                                                4 Marlborough Place,
                                                       April 5, 1886.

    My dear Foster --Mrs. Foster is quite right in looking sharp
Iafter your colds, which is very generous of me to say, as am down

in the mouth and should have been cheered by a chat.

    I am very glad to know what our younger friends are thinking

1886 SCIENCE AND THE FISHERY BOARD                                                   129

Iabout. I made up my mind to some such result of the action
Ihave thought it necessary to take. But have no ambition to lead,

and no desire to drive them, and if we can't agree, the best way will

be to go our ways separately. . . .

    Heaven forbid that I should restrain anybody from expressing

any opinion in the world. But it is so obvious to me that not one
of our friends has the smallest notion of what administration in
fishery questions means, or of the danger of creating a scientific

Frankenstein in that which he is clamouring for, that I suppose I

have been over-anxious to prevent mischief, and seemed domin

I Ieering.
      Well, shall mend my      ways.        must be   gmeteti.n--g Etvoerbeyouarns,  old
                               to write  anything to
savage if you think it risky                          T. H. Huxley.

     But he did not stay long in London. By April 20 he
was off to Ilkley, where he expected to stay " for a week

or two,   --perhaps  longer."  On the 24th he writes to Sir M.
Foster :

    I was beginning to get wrong before we left Bournemouth, and
went steadily down after our return to London, so that I had to call
in a very shrewd fellow who attends my daughter M
                                                      . Last
Monday he told me that more physicking was no good, and that I

had better be off here, and see what exercise and the fresh air of the

Imoors would do for me. So here came, and mean to give the

place a fair trial.

    I do a minimum of ten miles per diem without fatigue, and as I

eat, drink, and sleep well, there ought to be nothing the matter with

me. Why, under these circumstances, I should never feel honestly
cheerful, or know any other desire than that of running away and

hiding myself, I don't know. No explanation is to be found even
in Foster's Physiology ! The only thing my demon can't stand is
Isharp walking, and  will give him a dose of that remedy when once
I get into trim.

      Indeed he was so much better       even after   a single day at

Ilkley, that he writes home :--

    IIt really seems to me that  am an impostor for running away,
I Iand can hardly believe that   felt so ill and miserable four-and-

twenty hours ago.

And on the 28th he writes to Sir M. Foster :--

    II have been improving wonderfully in the last few days. Yester

day walked to Bolton Abbey, the Strid, etc., and back, which is a
VOL. II
                                                      K

130              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      CHAP. VIII

matter of sixteen miles, without being particularly tired, though the

afternoon   sun  was  satosryh--ot aascamseidsoufmcmaenrd. le-snuff  --  some  infernal com
            the  old
     It is

pound that won't get burnt up without more oxygenation than is to

be had under ordinary conditions. . . .

    I want to be back and doing something, and yet have a notion
Ithat should be wiser if I stopped here a few weeks and burnt up
Imy rubbish effectually. A good deal will depend upon whether

can get my wife to join me or not. She has had a world of worry

lately.

     As to his fortunate choice of an hotel, " I made up my

mind," he writes, "to come     to  tohfisthehomteol orm--erbeulyt              because
Bradshaw said it was on the  edge                                              for once

acting on an advertisement turned out well." The moor ran

up six or seven hundred feet just outside the garden, and the

hotel itself was well outside and above the town and the

crowd of visitors. Here, with the exception of a day or two

in May and a fortnight at the beginning of June, he stayed

till July, living as far as possible an outdoor life, and getting

through a fair amount of correspondence.
     It was not to be expected that he should long remain

unknown, and he was sometimes touched, more often bored,

by the forms which this      rheocmoegn:i--tion  took.                   Thus two days
after his arrival he writes

      Sitting opposite to me at the table d'hote here is a nice old

Scotch lady. People have found out my name here by this time,
and yesterday she introduced herself to me, and expressed great

gratitude for the advice I gave to a son of hers two or three years
ago. I had great difficulty in recollecting anything at all about the
matter, but it seems the youngster wanted to go to Africa, and I

advised him not to, at anyrate at present. However, the poor fellow

went, and died, and they seem to have found a minute account of

his interview with me in his diary.

writeBsu:t--all were not of this kind.                               On the 26th he

     I took a three hours' walk over the moors this morning with

Inothing but grouse and peewits for company, and it was perfectly
delicious.       am beginning to forget that I have a liver, and even
Ifeel mildly disposed to the two fools of women between whom

have to sit every meal.

1886 AT ILKLEY                                                                      131

...days2--7Mit.--.  do  I wish you would come here if only                for a few
                                                                          and wear
          would         you a world of good after your anxiety

and tear for the last week. And you say you are feeling weak.

IPlease come and let me take care of you a bit ; am sure the
lovely air here would set you up. I feel better than I have for

months. . . .

The country is lovely, and in a few days more all the leaves will
          You can almost
be out.   and rejoice the  h"easrairtheemen b"urostfinygo. ur       Now come down on
Saturday                                                            old husband who is

wearying for you.

    --Another extract from the same correspondence expresses

his detestation for a gross breach of confidence :

April 22. -- . . . I have given Mr.                                 a pretty smart setting
down for sending me Ruskin's letter to him ! It really is iniquitous

that such things should be done. Ruskin has a right to say any

thing he likes in a private letter, and                   must be a perfect cad to

send it on to me.

The following letter on the ideal of a Paleontological

--Museum is a specialised and improved                              version of his  earlier

schemes on the same subject :

                                                          4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                     May 3, 1886.

My dear Foster --I cannot find Hughes' letter, and fancy I

must have destroyed        So cannot satisfy Newton as to the exact

terms of his question.
I
      It
         is I

                      iIf it.
                                  I
But am quite clear that my answer was not meant to recom

mend any particular course for Cambridge, when know nothing
                                                                    is I
about the particular circumstances of the case, but referred to what

should like to do       had carte blanche.

          as plain as the nose on one's face (mine                      said to be very

plain) that Zoological and Botanical collections should illustrate

(1) Morphology, (2) Geographical Distribution, (3) Geological
Succession.

          also obvious to me that the morphological series ought to
I It
      is
                it
contain examples of all the extinct types in their proper places.

But think will be no less plain to any one who has had anything

to do with Geology and Paleontology that the great mass of fossils
                                                                    a

                                                                              It

                                                                                                        a is
to be most conveniently arranged stratigraphically. The Jermyn St.

Museum affords an example of the stratigraphical arrangement.

do not know that there                                    anywhere  collection arranged
I

                                                      is

according to Provinces of Geographical Distribution.                      would be

great credit to Cambridge to set the example of having one.

132            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                 chap, viii

     If I had a free hand in Cambridge or anywhere else I should

build (A) a Museum, open to the public, and containing three
strictly limited and selected collections ; one morphologically, one

geographically, and one stratigraphically arranged ; and (B) a series
of annexes arranged for storage and working purposes to contain the

material which is of no use to any but specialists. I am convinced

that this is the only plan by which the wants of ordinary people can

be supplied efficiently, while ample room is afforded for additions to

any extent without large expense in building.

     On the present plan or no plan, Museums are built at great cost,

and in a few years are choked for want of room.

    If you have the opportunity, I wish you would explain that I

gave no opinion as to what might or might not be expedient under
                                                                 I
pmreedsednletsomcierc. u--mstEavnecresyourast   Cambridge.          do not want to seem
                                               very faithfully,         T. H. Huxley.

     NDo.Bn'.t--foArgsetmCyaymleeya. ning seems to have been misunderstood I
       if you have the                                                        clear that I do
wish,                       chance,            ymouusewumousld--mbuatkeonite                   not
want   three brick and      mortar                                             public museum
                                                                                               --

containing a threefold collection of typical forms, a biological Trinity

in Unity in fact.
     It might conciliate the clerics if you adopted this illustration.

But as your own, mind. I should not like them to think me

capable of
             a I I I it.
      However, even Ilkley was not an infallible cure. ThusII

he writes to Sir M. Foster --. II
                                               :

    May 17. -- am ashamed of myself for not going to town to

attend the Gov. Grant Committee and Council, but find had
better stop here till the end of the month, when must return for
                                                                              I          aI
                                                                                 I

while anyhow.
a      have improved very much here, and so long as take heaps of
                                                                              I
   II I
exercise every day have nothing to complain of beyond                                          fit of

blue devils when wake in the morning.

       But don't want to do any manner of work, still less any

manner of play, such as going on in London at this time of year,
                            is is
and think am wise to keep out of as long as can.
                                                  it
       wish knew what the matter with me.                                     feel always just on
                                                        I
                                                            II

                                                                         I
                                                                                   if

                                                                                                     it
the verge of becoming an absurd old hypochondriac, and as

Ifonly wanted  --tou. ch.  to send me over.                         me        far  less  than  they

     May 27.                 The blue devils worry
did. there were any herd of swine here might cast them out

altogether, but expect they would not go into blackfaced sheep.I
         am disposed to stop not more than ten days in London, but to

come back here and bring some work with me. In fact do not

1886 LETTER TO H. SPENCER                                                133

know that I should return yet if it were not that I do not wish to

miss our usual visit to Balliol, and that my Spanish daughter is

coming home for a few months. . . .
federIataiomn.*over"wShoemlmeethdinagt
                                        being taken     at my word about scientific
                                        will transpire  " as old Gutzlaff2 said when

he flogged plaintiff, defendant and witnesses in an obscure case.

PS. --I have had an invitation from                          to sign " without
committing myself to details " an approbation of his grand scheme.3
IA stupendous array of names appear thus committed to the
"principle of the Bill."                prefer to be the Hartington of the

situation.

During this first stay in London he wrote twice to Mr.

Herbert Spencer, from whom he had, according to custom,

received some proofs to read. The first set were from his

autobiography ; after twice reading Huxley had merely

marked a couple of paragraphs containing personal references
which might possibly be objectionable " to the ' heirs,
administrators and assigns,' if there
themselves if they are living still."                   are  any, or to  tJhuenepe1op: --le
                                                             continues,
                                                        He

IYou will be quite taken aback at getting a proof from me with
so few criticisms, but even             am not so perverse as to think that I

can improve your own story of your own life !

    I notice a curious thing. If Ransom * had not overworked him
Iself, I should probably not be writing this letter.

     For if he had worked less hard might have been first and he

second at   the   Examination at        the University of London in 1845.
            case                        obtained the Exhibition, should not
In which          I should have

have gone into the navy, and should have forsaken science for

practice. . . .

    Again on June 4 :--
    My dear Spencer-- Here's a screed for you ! I wish you well

through it.

    Mind, I have no a priori objection to the transmission of
functional modifications whatever. In fact, as I told you, I should

rather like it to be true.

    But I argued against the assumption (with Darwin as I do with

     1 i.e. a federation between the Royal Society and scientific societies in the

colonies.
     2 This worthy appears to have been an admiral on the China station about

1840.
     3 For the reorganisation of the Fisheries Department.
     4 Dr. Ransom of Nottingham.

134              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                               chap, viii

you) of the operation of a factor which, if you           forgive me for saying

--so, seems as far   off support by          trustworthy  evidence now as ever                  it
                      very faithfully,                        T. H. Huxley.
was. Ever yours

      On   --the same  day  he  wrote        to Mr., afterwards Sir John)
Skelton
           :

                            4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,
                                                 June 4, 1886.

     My    adwmeoarskro."rrSyketIolthsoaanvye--I bkAeneoncwivt--riyl innqugoebstootdioyenmbederetgtseeerrv--freos"mawthchaiavttilitcaoninssdwtietoiro--nbe,

Yes. I

unfit for

first at Bournemouth, and then at Ilkley, for the last five months,
with such small success that I find a few days in London knocks me
           I go
up,  and         bnaockwtaotert-hheenYsorkthsehriere--mnooothrsingnexbtutwepeeke.wits,
     We    have
                                                                                        larks,  and
occasional grouse -- but the air and water are of the best, and the

hills quite high enough to bring one's muscles into play.

    I suppose that Nebuchadnezzar was quite happy so long as be
grazed and kept clear of Babylon ; if so, I can hold him for my

Scripture parallel.
    II
                                              moral    Nuon.off2e, nbduint gthcerreeatiiosnam" aiznintghley
little                                       care for
     wish could      "arcecveeprtentyiaolur
     evidence of
Ifarrangements of nature, that I can discover.
                                                          our ears were sharp

enough to hear all the cries of pain that are uttered in the earth by

men and beasts, we should be deafened by one continuous scream !

     And yet the wealth of superfluous loveliness in the world con
                       It is a hopeless      riddle. -- Ever
demns pessimism.                                             T.  yHou.rs,Huxley.

     Please remember me to Mrs. Skelton.

     The election of a new Headmaster at Eton, where he

was a member of the Governing Body, was a matter of no

small concern to him at this moment. Some parts of the

existing system seemed impossible to alter, though a reform

in the actual scheme and scope of teaching seemed to him

both possible     and necessary for          the future well-being                      of the
school. He       writes to his eldest
                                             son on July 6, 1886                        :--

     The whole system of paying the Eton masters by the profits of

the boarding-houses they keep is detestable to my mind, but any

...attempt to alter it would be fatal.                                                  It will
          I look to the new appointment with great anxiety.
make or mar Eton. If the new Headmaster has the capacity to

grasp the fact that the world has altered a good deal since the Eton

system was invented, and if he has the sense to adapt Eton to the

1886 LANDSCAPES AND RAILWAYS                                                            I3S

new state of things, without letting go that which was good in the
old system, Eton may become the finest public school in the

Ifcountry.

         on the contrary he is merely a vigorous representative of the

old system pure and simple, the school will go to the dogs.

    I think it is not unlikely that there may be a battle in the
IGoverning Body over the business, and that shall be on the losing
I Iside. But
               am used to that, and shall do what                               think right

nevertheless.

     The same letter contains his reply to a suggestion that

he should join a society whose object was to prevent a railway
from being run right through the Lake district.

not much inclined to join the " Lake
   value natural beauty as much as most
    I am
I ISociety."
                                                                     pDeiosptlreic--t inDdeefeendce
value it so much, and think so highly of its influence that I would
Ifmake beautiful scenery accessible to all the world, if I could.
                                                                                        any

engineering or mining work is projected, which will really destroy
Ithe beauty of the Lakes,
                                                     will   certainly oppose  it,but     am not
disposed, as Goschen said,                          to "   give a blank cheque  " to    Defence
                                                                                    aI

Society, the force of which                         pretty certain to be wielded by the
               I
                     I is
most irrational fanatics among its members.

Only the other day walked the whole length of Bassenthwaite

from Keswick and back, and cannot say that the little line of rails

which runs along the lake, now coming into view and now disappear
ing, interfered with my keen enjoyment of the beauty of the lake any
more than the macadamised road did. And
                                                                     had not been for
                                                                     if

                                                                          it
                                                                                  a

                                                                               I
that railway should not have been able to make Keswick my head
II
quarters, and should have lost my day's delight.

People's sense of beauty should be more robust.                                       have had

anopwoc. a--lyEpvtiecr,vidseioanr sladlo,oykoinugr  down    Oxford   Street at sunset before
                                                    loving  father,
                                                                           T. H. Huxley.

      After this he took his wife to Harrogate, "just like'
                        :
Clapham Common on a great scale," where she was ordered
to drink the waters. For himself, was as good as Ilkley,it
seeing that he needed " nothing but fresh air and exercise,

and just as much work that interests me as will keep my
mind from getting blue mouldy.' " The work in this case
was the chapter in the Life of Charles Darwin, which he had

promised Mr. F. Darwin to finish before going abroad.

     On July 10, he writes to Sir M. Foster on the rejection
of the Home Rule Bill --

136  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                           CHAP. VIII

     The smashing of the G.O.M. appears to be pretty complete,

though he has unfortunately enough left to give him the means of

playing an ugly game of obstruction in the next Parliament.

     You                the shine out of my exultation  at Lubbock's
                                                        see so many
Imajority               confess I was disheartened to
     --hatvheougtahken
Ifeducated men going in for the disruption policy.
                                                        it were not for
Randolph I should turn Tory, but that fellow will some day oust

Salisbury as Dizzy ousted old Derby, and sell his party to Parnell or

anybody else who makes a good bid.

me iWn elovaer.e--flEovuerrishyionugrs, on the whole.  Sulphide of wife joins with
                                                                          T. H. H.

     On the 2 1st he writes :--

     The formation of Huxley sulphide will be brought to a sudden
termination to-morrow when we return to London. The process has

certainly done my wife a great deal of good and I wish it could

have gone on a week or two longer, but our old arrangements are
upset and we must start with the chicks for Switzerland on the 27th,

that is next Tuesday.

                    CHAPTER IX

                    1886

The earlier start was decided upon for the sake of one of his

daughters, who had been ill. He went first to Evolena, but

the place did not   suit him, and four days after  his  arrival
went on to Arolla,  whence he writes on August 3
                                                   :--

We reached Evolena on Thursday last. . . . We had glorious

Iweather Thursday and Friday, and the latter day (having both been

told carefully to avoid over-exertion), the wife and strolled, quite

unintentionally, as far as the Glacier de Ferpecle and back again.

I ILuckily the wife is none the worse, and indeed, think was the

more tired of the two. But we saw at once that Evolena was

a mistake for our purpose, and were confirmed in that opinion by a

deluge of rain on Saturday. The hotel is down in a hole at the tail

of a dirty Swiss village, and only redeemed by very good cooking.
So, Sunday being fine, I, E. and H. started up here to prospect, 18

miles up and down, and 2000 feet to climb, and did it beautifully.

It is just the place for us, at the tail of a glacier in the midst of a

splendid amphitheatre of 11-12000 feet snow heights, and yet not
... Ibrdaaetrcheiedraendldloynwgrausdftioem,r eantnhtyearqyfu--leasnohtti-htpyeortwosifsesotofwnee-Epvainoreelesvneargy--rowwcoeinollgkoinaffgb. outh.ere
                                                        being

The keen air of six thousand feet above sea level worked

wonders with the invalids. The lassitude of the last two

years was swept away, and Huxley came home eager for

active life. Here too it was that, for occupation, he took up

the study of gentians ; the beginning of that love of his

garden  which was so great  a delight to him  in   his last
years.  On his return home
                            he writes :--

138            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                             chap, ix

                                                                                             4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                                      Sept. 10, 1886.

    My dear Foster--We got back last evening after a very

successful trip. Arolla suited us all to a T, and we are all in great

Iforce. As for me, have not known of the existence of my liver,
Iand except for the fact that found fifteen or sixteen miles with a
couple of thousand feet up and down quite enough, I could have
deluded myself into the fond imagination that I was twenty years

younger.
     By way of amusement I bought a Swiss Flora in Lausanne and
vtooifsoiCkt--hticothobeosdtteeacrnla--irseinagtd--heaatarndIolsdmouygmhdatenv,tohwetioh"no
                                                                                             to the gentians       led the Bishop
                                                                                                                   is the hotel) a
                                                                                              paid us    ("thaast  a kind of Holy
                                                                                             Ur-gentian

Grail. The only interruption to our felicity was the death of a poor

fellow, who was brought down on a guide's back from an expedition

Ihe ought not to have undertaken, and whom did my best to keep

alive one night. But rapid pleuritic effusion finished him the next

morning,   in  spite of  (I hope not  in                                                     consequence  of) such  medical
treatment  as
               I could   give him.
     I see you had a great meeting at Birmingham, but I know not

details. The delegation to Sydney is not a bad idea, but why on
earth have they arranged that it shall arrive in the middle of the hot

Iweather ? Speechifying with the thermometer at 900 in the shade

will try the nerves of the delegates, can tell them.

    II shall remain quietly here and see whether can stand London.
I Ihope may, for the oestrus of work is upon me -- for the first time

this couple of years. Let me have some news of you. With our
love to your wife and you -- Ever yours,                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

                                          4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                             Sept. 14, 1886.

     My   dear Donnelly -- I      Ihear   thbaetttesromgeiveofmyyosuerlf aulgpuaaztilsoncwee--re
looking                              had
          after me yesterday, so

hoping it will be considered in the sentence.
     IThe fact is have been going to write to you ever since we came
Iback last Thursday evening, but
                                          had about fifty other letters to

write and got sick of the operation.
     I IWe are all in great force, and as for me, I never expected a year
ago to be as well as am.          require to look in the glass and study

the crows' feet and the increasing snow cap on the summit of my
ITete noire (as it once was), to convince myself
                                                                                                                   am not twenty

Iyears younger.                                                                                           am going to give

     How long it will last I don't feel sure, but

London as little chance as possible.

i886 RETURNS FROM AROLLA                                                                   139

    I trust
Ito me the
Ibelieve, a
            you have  awltalonbtieKneegnw.tthoritvIaiknteogldhtoishaiamdlivkaencheeaxddtenntfo.locokbSjce(o2ctt--tio1now,nerbo, tuet
           other day

           ewe-lamb)
had better consult

I have not been
Ihe
                      you.     yet -- as  have a devil (botanical --)

                      to S.K.

and must satisfy him before doing anything else. It's the greatest
sign of amendment that I have gone in for science afresh. When
I am ill (and consequently venomous), nothing satisfies me but
gnawing at theology ; it's a sort of crib-biting.
                     Mrs. Donnelly. I suppose
      Our  love to  --LaEmvebrerytouprshyvseicryallfyaitahnfudlly,   G.H.f is    by this   time a
kind of     Daniel                                                               mentally
                                                                    Solomon                -- my
blessing   to him.                                                        T. H.  Huxley.

      As a sequel to the sad event mentioned in the former

letter, the relations of the young man who had died so

suddenly at Arolla wished to offer Huxley some gift in

grateful recognition of the kindness he had shown to the

poor fellow ; but being unable to fix upon any suitable

object, begged him to accept a considerable sum of money

and   expend it     oNn oavneymboebrjec2t1,he18p8le6as:e--d         as  a memento.         To
this  he replied,

      I am very much obliged for the kindly recognition of my

unfortunately unavailing efforts to be of service to your brother-in-

law which is contained in your letter.

    IBut and those who right willingly helped me did nothing more

than our plain duty in such a case ; and though I fully appreciate the

motives which actuate Mrs.     and yourself and friends, and would

gladly accept any trifle as a memento of my poor friend (I call him
so, for we really struck up a great friendship in our twelve hours'

acquaintance), I could not with any comfort use the very handsome

cheque you offer.

      Let me propose a compromise.  As you will see by the enclosed

paper, a colleague of mine has just died leaving widow and children

in very poor circumstances. Contribute something to the fund

Iwhich is being raised for their benefit, and shall consider it as the

most agreeable present you could possibly make to me.
      And if you wish me to have a personal memento of our friend,
Isend me a pipe that belonged to him.
                                                                    am greatly devoted to

tobacco, and will put it in a place of honour in my battery of pipes.

      The bracing effects of Arolla enabled him to stay
two months in town before again retiring to Ilkley to be

            1 Assistant Professor of Botany at the Royal College of Science.
                             2 Gordon Huxley Donnelly, Sir John's son.

140                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, ix

" screwed up." He had on the stocks his Gentian Paper

and the chapter for the Darwin Life, besides the chapter

on the Progress of Science for the Reign of Victoria, all
of which he finished off this autumn ; he was busy with

Technical Education, and the Egyptian borings which were
being carried out under the superintendence of the Royal
Society. Finally he was induced by a " diabolical plot "
on the part of Mr. Spencer to read, and in consequence to
answer, an article in the Fortnightly for November by Mr.

Lilly on " Materialism and Morality." These are the chief

points with which the following correspondence is concerned.

                                                                       4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                    Sept. 16, 1886.

          My dear Foster-- I enclose the Report 1 and have nothing to
Ifsuggest except a quibble at p. 4.
                                                                       you take a stick in your hand

you may feel lots of things and determine their form, etc., with the

other end of but surely the stick properly said to be insensible.
                       it,

                              I

                                                                    ?

                                                               is
D°. with the teeth.                       feel very well with mine (which are paid for)

but they are surely not sensible                Old Tomes once published the

opinion that the contents of the dentine tubules were sensory nerves,
on the ground of our feeling so distinctly through our teeth. He

forgot the blind man's stick. Indeed the reference of sensation to
the end of stick one of the most interesting of psychological
       I
facts.
              is
     It                aa

vomit.                                is
          extraordinary how those dogs of examinees return to their                                  a
          Almost all the obstinate fictions you mention are of

eqpuiadretemrico--f      century date. Only     then                   they      were  dominant  and
                     now they are sporadic.

          wish Pasteur or somebody would find some microbe with

which the rising generation could be protected against them.                           -- this
      We shall have to re-arrange the Examination business
                                                                                       firm. Think
partner having         bmeaddeoneh. is--fEovrteurnyeouarns,d           retiring  from  T. H. H.
over what to
       ?

                   is
     You don't happen to grow gentians in your Alpine region, do

you

     Of   his formal   trheespyoenasrib--ility  for the examinations                   he had
          earlier in
written                                   :

        The Annual Report of the Examiners in Physiology under the Science and1
Art Department, which, being still an Examiner, he had to sign.

1886 OCCUPATIONS OF THE AUTUMN                                                                141

                                                               Wells House, Ilkley,

                                                                        June 15, 1886.
     My dear Donnelly --I think it is just as well that you could
not lay your hands on ink, for if you had you would only have
blacked them. (N.B. This is a goak.)
    IYou know we resolved that                                       that I   should go
                                                                                me of it
Examiner (unpaid) this year.                                          repent
                                         it was as well                                       o--n foasr

                                         But I rather
although I could be of use over the questions,
                                                                        have had nothing

to do with checking the results of the Examination except in

honours, and I suspect that Foster's young Cambridge allies tend

Ialways to screw the standard up.

       am inclined to think that I had much better be out of it next
          The attempt to
year.                              look  over              examination  --paanpde,rs    now   would
reduce    the little brains I      have  left            to mere pulp                 on the   other
Ihand, if there is any row about results, it is not desirable that
Ihave to say that have not seen the answers.                                            should

    IWhen      go you will         probably get seven devils                  worse   than    the
first --butthat is not the         fault of the first devil.
II--It brauitnhaetomhdpeerhepayircoidksuinsyaguernesstuehbrpiendteatheyer rbeaoefntfww.deoebnWnldehwetarhfteduailtlrnytaoion--inutatlsoanp-ndditdaesiysqhuoitafnlliasst.mhebelob"waTidnegtwroedanittithloaee.r"s.
I don't believe you have
                                   spelt it  right.            With     best  Hre.gaHrdusxletoy.Mrs.
Donnelly and my godson.                      yours,
                                   -- Ever                               T.

                                                               4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                            Sept. 16, 1886.

     My dear Hooker -- I have sucked Grisebach's brains, looked
up Flora B. Americana, and F. Antarctica and New Zealand, and

picked about in other quarters. I found I knew as much as Grise

bach had to tell          me   (tahnedvemrnoare)lot,abwohuitchluatreea,alpl uIrpguorteoh-opludnctoaftaa,t
acaulis, campestris,      and

Arolla. But he is very good in all but classification, which is

logically "without form and void, and darkness on the face of it."

    I Ishall have to verify lots of statements about gentians have

not seen, but at present the general results are very curious and

interesting.     --Thtehresep,ecsipeesciaflaislledi.nto  four  groups,  one primary least
di fferentiated

     1.   L"obpeliscao"f  corolla  fringed. 2. Coronate.                3. Interlobate (i.e.
                          between  the proper petals).
not  the

     Now the interesting point is that the Antarctic species are all

primary and so are the great majority of the Andean forms. Lutea

is the only old-world primary, unless the Himalayan Moorcroftiana
belongs here. The Arctic forms are also primary, but the petals

more extensively united.

142             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                           CHAP. IX

     The specialised types are all Arctogeal with the exception of

half a dozen or so Andean species including prostrata.

     There is a strange general parallelism with the cray- fishes!

which also have their primary forms in Australia and New Zealand,

avoid E. S. America and Africa, and become most differentiated in

Arctogaea. But there are also differences in detail.

     It strikes me that this is uncommonly interesting ; but, of course,

Iall the information about the structure of the flowers, etc., get at

second hand, wants verifying.

     Have you done the gentians of your Flora Indica yet ? Do look

at them from this point of view.
C"FhoonlIidarcoampnhanyrogltlian.emackaeWrthiloaaugttineiwsahaaJt'""
                                                                      Gcrairsteilbaagcinhoumse"anms arbgyin  his   division       --of
                                                                                                               to   a leaf?

                                                                      He has a lot of Indian sp. under

this head.
     II send you a rough scheme
                                                                      have drawn up.                         Please let me

have it back. Any annotations thankfully received.                                                                 Shan't

Iapologise for bothering you.                                         at last. -- Ever  yours,
                                                                                        T. H. Huxley.
         hope the pension is settled

     My dear    Hooker--I have written                                    4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                     Sept. 22, 1886.

                                                                         to Lubbock a long screed

stating my views 1 with unmistakable distinctness as politeful as may
be, and asking him, if he thought well, to send them on to whom

soever  it  may concern.      As  oCldhinGeeut--zla"ffG2 if                  used        to say when he
wanted  to  get evidence                                                     him        four dozen, some
                          from a
Iting vill transpire." At any rate the Chinee transpired, and hope

some official will.

     Here beginneth more gentian craze.
     I  have not examined Moorcroft. yet, but if
                                                                                                             the figure in
Roxb.   is trustworthy it's a primary and no mistake.
                                                                                                             I can't under

stand your admitting Amarellae without coronae. The presence
of a corona is part of the definition of the amarella group, and

Ian amarella without a corona is a primary ipso facto.

      Taking the facts as have got them in the rough, and subject

to minor verifications, the contrast between the Andean, Himalayan,

and Caucasian Gentian Florae is very striking.

     Andes           27                                               o (?)  Corona tae.                           Interlobatae.
                                                                                  15                                         2
     Himalayas            1 (Moorcroft.) o                                          4
                                                                                    5                                    21
     Caucasus Pyrenees 2 (lutea                                       2

     1 Referring to the relations between the S. K. department and the City and
Guilds Committee on Technical Education.

      * See p. 133.

1886 WORK ON THE GENTIANS                                            «43

II don't think Ciliatae worth anything as a division.    took it as it

stood.

     It is clear that migration helps nothing, as between the old-world
and S. American Florae. It is the case of the Tapirs (Andean and
Sino-Malayan) over again. Relics of a tertiary Flora which once

extended from S. America to Eurasia through N. America (by the

west, probably).
    I see a book by Engler
                              on the       development   --oEfveFrloyroausrs,since
tertiary epoch. Probably the  beggar     has the idea.
                                               T. H. Huxley.

                                         GodAlminG, Sept. 25, 1886.

My dear Foster -- We are here till to-morrow on a visit to

Leonard, seeing how the young folks keep house.          It is very

    I brought the Egyptian report down with me.

important, and in itself justifies the expenditure. Any day next

I If(that is to say this) week that you like can see Col. Turner.
Iyou and Evans can arrange a day don't think we need mind the

rest of the Committee. We must get at least two other borings ten
or fifteen miles off, if possible on the same parallel, by hook or by
crook. It will tell us more about the Nile valley than has ever

been known. That Italian fellow who published sections must have

Ilied considerably.       have not examined     your specimen yet,
                                                You talk of having
      Touching gentians,
                                               species I worked out
but it certainly did not look like Andrewsii.

acaulis in your garden. That is one of the

most carefully at Arolla, but its flowering time was almost over, and
I Ifonly got two full-blown specimens to work at.
                                                         you have any

in flower and don't mind sacrificing one with a bit of the rhizoma,

and would put it in spirit for me, I could settle one or two points

still wanting. Whisky will do, and you will be all the better for not

drinking the whisky !

The distributional facts, when you work them in connection with

morphology, are lovely. We put up with Donnelly on our way
Iihnerelo. velyHecohausnttrayk--enona
                       cottage       at  Felday, eleven  miles from hence,
                       lease.            shall have to   set up a country

residence some day, but as all my friends declare their own locality
best, I find a decision hard. And it is a bore to be tied to one
place. -- Ever yours,                          T. H. Huxley.

                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                                                  Oct. 20, 1886.

    My dear Hooker-- I wish you would not mind the trouble of
looking through the enclosed chapter which I have written at F.
Darwin's request, and tell me what you think of it. F. D. thinks I

144               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                CHAP. IX

am hard upon the " Quarterly Article," but I read it afresh and it is

absolutely scandalous. The anonymous vilifiers of the present day

I Iwill be none the worse for being reminded that they may yet hang
in chains.        expect, from all hear, that Gosse has had very hard

measure, and you may see that Cotter Morison (who is a very good
authority) says that the Reviewer is quite wrong about the Harring

ton business, of which he makes so much.

     It occurs to me that it might be well to add a paragraph or

two  about the two     icnhtireofdoubcijnecgtio"ncshamnacdee "foarsmaerlfyacatnord  now to Darwin,
the  one, that it is                                                                in nature, and

the other that it is atheistic.

"     Both  assertions are utter bosh.                   None but parsons believe in
   chance   "                                          difficulties of Theism now are
                  and  the  philosophical
               ;

innevietnhteerd.gr--eatEevrernoyroulerss,s than  they  have  been  ever  since Theism was
                                                                              T. H. H.

     Old experience, indeed, made him sympathise so much

with Mr. Edmund Gosse for his treatment in a celebrated

literary controversy,       that he wrote him the following

letter :--

                                                                                    Oct. 22, 1886.

    IDear Sir -- beg leave to offer you my best thanks for your
Iletter to the Atherutum, which have just read, and to congratulate
you on the force and completeness of your answer to your assailant.
     It is rarely worth while to notice criticism, but when a good
chance of exposing one of these anonymous libellers who disgrace

literature occurs, it is a public duty to avail oneself of it.
     IOddly enough,
" haute                     have recently been performing a similar
attacks
           ceuvre." The most violent,                  base, and ignorant           "     of all    the
          on Darwin at the time of the                 publication of the                 Origin
                                                                                                     of
ISpecies " appeared in the Quarterly Review of that time ; and

have built the reviewer a gibbet as high as Haman's.

     All  good men and true                      should combine to stop             this  system    of
                                                 yours very faithfully,
literary  moonlighting. -- I am                                    T. H. Huxley.

     As for the incitement to answer Mr. Lilly, Mr. Spencer

writes from Brighton on November 3 :--

    I have no doubt your combative instincts                       have been stirred
                                                                   " Materialism and
Iwithin you as you read Mr. Lilly's article,                       after the ordinary

Morality," in which you and are dealt with
Ifashion popular with the theologians, who practically say, "You
shall be materialists whether you like it or not."                                  should not be
sorry if you yielded to those promptings of your combative instinct.

1886 LETTERS TO H. SPENCER                                           145

Now that you are a man of leisure there is no reason why you
should not undertake any amount of fighting, providing always that
you can find foemen worthy of your steel. . . .

    I remember that last year you found intellectual warfare good
Ifor your health, so have no qualms of conscience in making the

suggestion.

   To this he replies on the 7th :--

I    Your stimulation of my combative instincts     is downright  wicked.
                                                    succumb to    tempta
   will not look at the Fortnightly article lest I
tion. At least not yet. The truth is that these cursed irons of

mine, that have always given me so much trouble, will put them

selves in the fire, when I am not thinking about them. There are

three or four already.

      On November 2 1 Mr. Spencer sends him more proofs of

his autobiography, dealing with his early life :--

     See what it is to be known as an omnivorous reader -- you get
no mercy shown you. A man who is ready for anything, from a

fairy tale to a volume of metaphysics, is naturally one who will
make nothing of a fragment of a friend's autobiography !

     To this he replies on the 25 th :--

                                        4 Marlborough Place,
                                                 Nov. 25, 1886.

     My dear      Spencer-- In spite of all prohibition I  mhuesrtewwitrhite--toI
you about two
                  things. First, as to the proof returned

Ireally have no criticisms to make (miracles, after all, may not be
incredible).   I  have read your account of your boyhood with great
interest, and     find nothing there which does not contribute to the

understanding of the man. No doubt about the truth of evolution

in your own case.

      Another point which has interested me immensely is the curious

similarity to many recollections of my own boyish nature which I

find, especially in the matter of demanding a reason for things and

having no respect for authority.

    But I was more docile, and could remember anything I had a

mind to learn, whether it was rational or irrational, only in the latter
case I hadn't the mind.
   IBut you were infinitely better off than in the matter of educa
Ition.
        had two years of a Pandemonium of a school (between 8
                                        nor sympathy in any  intellectual
                                         Good heavens ! if    had had a
Iand 10) and

direction till
               after that neither help

               I reached manhood.

father and uncle who troubled themselves about my education as
   VOL. II
                                                                  L

146  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                    chap, ix

yours did about your training, I might                   s"ayThaesreBeisthneoll  said of his
                                                                                 knowing to
possibilities had he come under Jowett,
what eminence I might not have attained." Your account of them

gives me the impression that they were remarkable persons. Men
of that force of character, if they had been less wise and self-

restrained, would have played the deuce with the abnormal chicken

hatched among them.

     The second matter is that your                                              Lilly has
                                                                                 was fool
Isucceeded -- vide the next number
                                  diabolical plot against
                                  of the Fortnightly*
Ienough to read his article, and the rest followed. But do not
think I should have troubled myself if the opportunity had not been
good for clearing off a lot of old scores.
     IThe bad weather for the last ten days has shown me that want
screwing up, and I am off to Ilkley on Saturday for a week or two.
                                                           I should like
Ilkley Wells House  awgaililn.b--e mEvyear dydoreusrss.                    to    know  that
you are picking up                                       very faithfully,
                                                         T. H. Huxley.

     And again on December --1 3 :

    I am very glad to have news of you which on the whole is not
Iunsatisfactory. Your conclusion as to the doctors is one don't
...I Imind telling you in confidence I arrived at some time ago. . . .
     am glad you liked my treatment of Mr. Lilly.                                quite

agree with you that the thing was worth doing for the sake of the

public.

    II have in hand another bottle of the same vintage about Modern

Realism and the abuse of the word Law, suggested by a report
read the other day of one of Liddon's sermons.*

     The nonsense these great divines talk when they venture to

meddle with science is really appalling.                                         I am
      Don't be alarmed about the history of Victorian science.f

happily limited to the length of a review article or thereabouts, and

it is (I am happy to say it is nearly done) more of an essay on the
history of science, bringing out the broad features of the contrast

between past and present, than the history itself. It seemed to me

that this was the only way of dealing with such a subject in a book

intended for the general public.

      The article " Science and Morals " was not only a
satisfaction to himself, but a success with the readers of

the Fortnightly. To his wife he writes :--

     December 2. -- Have you had the Fortnightlv 1       How does my
painting of the Lilly look ?

     1 Science and Morals, Coll. Ess. ix. I 17.          3 Seep. 140.
     2 "Pseudo-Scientific Realism," Coll. Ess. iv. 59.

iS86 ADMINISTRATIVE INSIGHT                                                                      147

      December 8. -- Harris . . . says that my article "simply made

the December number," which pretty piece of gratitude means a

lively sense of favours to come.                                             yesterday  chuckling

    IDecember 1 3. -- had a letter from Spencer

over the success of his setting me on Lilly.

     Ilkley had a wonderful effect upon him. " It is quite
absurd," he writes after 24 hours there, " but I am wonder
fully better already." His regimen was of the simplest,
save perhaps on one point. " Clark told me," he says with

the utmost gravity, "always to drink tea and eat hot cake
at 4.30. I have persevered, however against my will, and
last night had no dreams, but slept like a top." Two hours'
writing in the morning were followed by two hours' sharp
walking ; in the afternoon he first took two hours' walking

or strolling if the weather were decent ; " then Clark's pre

scription diligently taken " (i.e. tea and a pipe) and a couple
of hours more writing ; after dinner reading and to bed

before eleven.

      I am working away (he writes) in a leisurely comfortable manner
at my chapter for Ward's Jubilee book, and have got the first few
                which
pages done,              is  always my greatest trouble.                     me  to  come  to the
      December   8. --.      . Canon Milman wrote to
                          .

opening of the New Buildings for Sion College, which the Prince
Iis going to preside over on the 15th.
                                        had half a mind to accept,
if only for the drollery of finding myself among a solemn convoca
      floofodtghaetesc,ityancldergIy.prudHeonwtleyvdere,cliInetdh.ought
tion                                                                     it  would   be    opening
the

      One more letter may perhaps be quoted as illustrating
the clearness of vision in administrative matters which made

it impossible for him to sit quietly by and see a tactical
blunder being committed, even though his formal position
might not seem to warrant his interference. This is his

apologia for such a step.

                                                                                 Dec. 16, 1886.

    My dear Foster --On thinking over this morning's Committee

work,* it strikes my conscience that being neither President or Chair

man nor officer I took command of the boat in a way that was hardly

justifiable.                                                                         for once was
      But it occurred to me that our sagacious

                1 Some Committee of the Royal Society.

148               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                              chap, ix

Igoing astray and playing into                       's  hoafnd"ss, alwusithSooucitetcalteisarlsyupsreeeminag
                                                    me
what he was doing, and bethought

lex," and made up my mind to stop the muddle we were getting into
Iat all costs.    hope he was not disgusted nor you either. X. ought

to have cut in, but he did not seem inclined                        to do so.  do -- anyhow.
     I am clearly                                                   thing to
--                    convinced             it was  the  right                 T. H. H.
    Ever yours,

     The chronicle of the year may fitly close with a letter

from Ilkley to Dr. Dohrn, apropos of his recommendation of
                                                                    The " honest
a candidate for a biological professorship.

sixpence got by hard labour," refers to a tour in the High

lands which he had once taken with Dr. Dohrn, when, on a

rough day, they were being rowed across Loch Leven to

Mary Stuart's castle. The boatman, unable to make head

single-handed against the wind, asked them each to take an

oar ; but when they landed and Huxley tendered the fare,
the honest fellow gave him back two sixpences, saying, " I

canna tak' it : you have wrocht as hard as I." Each took a

coin ; and Huxley remarked that this was the first sixpence

he had earned by manual labour. Dr. Dohrn, I believe, still

carries his sixpence in memory of the occasion.

                                               Wells House, Ilkley, Yorkshire,
                                                               Dec. I, 1886.

     My dear Dohrn -- You see by my address Ithat am en retraite,

for a  time.    As    gooof dtheciarthsooulilcss--wsoithId, rafowr  from the world now and
then   for the  sake                                                the sake of my body (and

cmhoioerfsly--ofthme yneliavreers)t  have retired for a  fortnight  or so to the Yorkshire
                                      place to London               can find dry air 1500
                                                         where I

feet above the sea, and the sort of uphill exercise which routs out

all the unoxygenated crannies of my organism. Hard frost has set in,

Iand had a walk over the moorland which would have made all the
blood of the Ost-see pirates -- which I doubt not you have inherited

,--alive, and cleared off the fumes of that detestable Capua to which

Iyou are condemned. should like to have seen the nose of one [of]
your Neapolitan nobilissimes after half-an-hour's exposure to the

north wind, clear and sharp as a razor, which very likely looked down
     Loch Leven
on   Ah well ! "   a few             hours  ago.
                  fuimus                    am amused
                                     "-- I               at the difficulty you find in
Itaking up the position of a " grave and reverend                                 "
                                                                    senior              because
                                                                                     ;

   can by  hnaoirsme"aangse          accustom  myself    to the like dignity.  "  In spite of
my grey                              hath not  cooled    the Douglas blood
                                                                                  altogether,

1886 LETTER TO DOHRN                                                          149

and I have a gratifying sense that (liver permitting) I am still capable
of much folly. All this, however, has not much to do with poor
Dr. to whom, I am sorry to say, your letter could do
Ino good, as it arrived after my colleagues and
                                                          had settled the

business.

But there were a number of strong candidates who had not much
Ifchance.
            it is open to me to serve him hereafter, however, your
Iletter will be of use to him, for know you do not recommend men

lightly.                   months of misery --the first thing that did
      After some eighteen

me any good was coming here. But I was completely set up by six
                     aatndArodlalaughitnersthe anVdalaIis.spenTthemohsottelofwaosur64t0im0 efeeint
or seven    weeks
up, and    the wife

scrambling about the 2000 feet between that and the snow. Six
            I had made up my

            well as did when
I I Imonths ago
   walked as
                                         mind to be       an invalid, but at  Arolla
                                         you and          made pilgrimages
                                                                              -- and

I

           ?
                      is
                             a

                                                      a

                                           (I,

                                               I

                                                         I
                                                                   I
earned the only honest sixpence                  at any rate) ever got for hard
                                                 brought me down again, so
labour. Three        m" omnethnsdeidn."  London
came here to be

You know English literature so well that perhaps you have read
Wordsworth's "White Doe of Rylstone."
                                                          am in that country,

within walk of Bolton Abbey.             kindly  to  the  Signora--and  thank her
       Please remember me very

for copying the letter in such charmingly legible hand.                       wish

mine were like it.
If am alive we shall go to Arolla next summer. Could we not
            It       fair half-way. -- Ever yours,
meet there                                                T. H. Huxley.

                CHAPTER X

                1887

The first half of 1887, like that of the preceding year, was
chequered by constant returns of ill-health. " As one gets

older," he writes in a New Year's letter to Sir J. Donnelly,

" hopes for oneself get more moderate, and I shall be content

if next year is no worse than the last. Blessed are the poor
             "
in  spirit      The good effects of the visit to Arolla had not
            !

outlasted the winter, and from the end of February he

was obliged to alternate between London and the Isle of

Wight.

    Nevertheless, he managed to attend to a good deal of

business in the intervals between his periodic flights to the

country, for he continued to serve on the Royal Society

Council, to do some of the examining work at South

Kensington, and to fight for the establishment of adequate

Technical Education in England. He attended the Senate

and various committees of the London University and of the

yMeaarriSn--eevteoBriaoclloomlgetmicteaermls oArraestfseeorcitaotthioetnh.eoccparsoiopnosably--tithewaessttahbelisJuhbmileenet

of the Imperial Institute. To this he gladly gave his

support ; not indeed to the merely social side ; but in the

opportunity of organising the practical applications of science

to industry he saw the key to success in the industrial war

of the future. Seconding the resolution proposed by Lord

Rothschild at the Mansion House meeting on January 12,

he spoke of the relation of industry to science --the two great

developments of this century.  Formerly practical men
looked askance at science, " but within the last thirty years,

1887 THE IMPERIAL INSTITUTE                                                   151

more particularly," continues the report in Nature (vol. xxxiii.
p. 265) "that state of things had entirely changed. There
began in the first place a slight flirtation between science

and industry, and that flirtation had grown into an intimacy,

he might almost say courtship, until those who watched the
signs of the times saw that it was high time that the young

people married and set up an establishment for themselves.
This great scheme, from his point of view, was the public and
ceremonial marriage of science and industry."

      Proceeding to speak of the contrast between militarism

and industrialism, he asked whether, after all, modern
industry was not war under the forms of peace. The

difference was the difference between modern and ancient

war, consisting in the use of scientific weapons, of organisa
tion and information. The country, he concluded, had
dropped astern in the race for want of special education
which was obtained elsewhere by the artisan. The only
possible chance for keeping the industry of England at the
head of the world was through organisation.

      Writing on January 18, to Mr. Herbert Spencer, who
had sent him some proofs of his Autobiography to look

through, he says :--

    II see that your proofs  have     been   in   my   hands longer than           I
                             have     seen  that      have been " starring
thought for. But you may                                                           "

at the Mansion House.

     This was not exactly  omnee--of  those bits of over-easiness to pressure
with which you reproach               but the resultant of a composition of
            one of which was the conviction that the " Institute "
pressures,
might be    made into something very useful and greatly wanted -- if

only the    projectors  could be made to believe      thwaatnttshedyonhea--d  always
intended    to do that   which your humble servant                            that is

the establishment of a sort  of       Royal Society for the   --impbryovveomluennttaroyf
industrial knowledge and     an        industrial university

association.

    II hope my virtue may be its own reward. For except being

knocked up for a day or two by the unwonted effort, doubt whether

Ithere will be any other. The thing has fallen flat as a pancake, and

   greatly doubt whether any good will come of it. Except a fine in

the shape of a subscription, I hope to escape further punishment for

my efforts to be of use.

However, this was only the beginning of his campaign.

152            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                   chap, x

      On January 27, a letter from him appeared in the Times,
guarding against a wrong interpretation of his speech, in the
general uncertainty as to the intentions of the proposers of

the scheme.

     I had no intention (he writes) of expressing any enthusiasm on
Ibehalf of the establishment of a vast permanent bazaar.  am not
Icompetent to estimate the real utility of these great shows. What
do see very clearly is that they involve difficulties of site, huge

working expenses, the potentiality of endless squabbles, and apparently

the cheapening of knighthood.

     As for the site proposed at South Kensington, " the
arguments used in its favour in the report would be con
clusive if the dry light of reason were the sole guide of
human action." But it would alienate other powerful and
wealthy bodies, which were interested in the Central
Institute of the City and Guilds Technical Institute, " which
looks so portly outside and is so very much starved inside."

   He wrote again to the Times on March --2 1 :

     The Central Institute is undoubtedly a splendid monument of

the munificence of the city. But munificence without method may
Iarrive at results indistinguishably similar to

have been blamed for saying that the Central
                               those of   stising"insetassrv. ed."
                               Institute

Yet a man who has only half as much food as he needs is indubitably

starved, even though his short rations consist of ortolans and are

served upon gold plate.

     Only half the plan of operations as drawn up by the
Committee was, or could be, carried out on existing funds.

     The later part of his letter was printed by the Committee

as defining the functions of the new Institute :--

     That with which I did intend to express my strong sympathy
was the intention which I thought I discerned to establish something

which should play the same part in regard to the advancement of

industrial knowledge which has been played in regard to science and

...learning in general, in these realms, by the Royal Society and the
Universities.  I pictured the Imperial Institute to myself as a

house of call for all those who are concerned in the advancement of

industry ; as a place in which the home-keeping industrial could find

out all he wants to know about colonial industry and the colonist

about home industry ; as a sort of neutral ground on which the

capitalist and the artisan would be equally welcome ; as a centre of

intercommunication in which they might enter into friendly discus

                              THE IMPERIAL INSTITUTE                       '53

sion of the problems at issue between them, and, perchance, arrive

at a friendly solution of them. I imagined it a place in which the

fullest stores of industrial knowledge would be made accessible to

the public ; in which the higher questions of commerce and industry

would be systematically studied and elucidated ; and where, as in an
If Iindustrial university, the whole technical education of the country
might find its centre and crown.                        earnestly desire to see such
Ian institution created, it is not because think that or anything else
                                                        -- as
swuigllgepsutteda, n--ebnudt  to pauperism    and want         somebody    has absurdly
                                            believe it  will   supply a  foundation for
                               because I

that scientific organisation of our industries which the changed

Iconditions of the times render indispensable to their prosperity.
do not think I am far wrong in assuming that we are entering,

indeed, have already entered, upon the most serious struggle for

existence to which this country has ever been committed. The
latter years of the century promise to see us embarked in an

industrial war of far more serious import than the military wars of

its opening years. On the east, the most systematically instructed
and best-informed people in Europe are our competitors ; on the
west, an energetic off-shoot of our own stock, grown bigger than its
parent, enters upon the struggle possessed of natural resources to
which we can make no pretension, and with every prospect of soon
possessing that cheap labour by which they may be effectually

utilised. Many circumstances tend to justify the hope that we may

hold our own if we are careful to "organise victory." But to those

who reflect seriously on the prospects of the population of Lancashire
and Yorkshire--- should the time ever arrive when the goods which

are produced    by their labour and their               skill are   to be  had cheaper
                 those who remember the                   cotton   famine    and reflect
elsewhere --to

how much worse a customer famine would be, the situation appears

very grave.

       On February 19 and 22, he wrote again to the Times

declaring against the South Kensington site. It was too
far from the heart of commercial organisation in the city,

and the city people were preparing to found a similar
institution of their own. He therefore wished to prevent

the Imperial Institute from becoming a weak and unworthy
memorial of the reign.

     A final letter to the Times on March 2 1 , was evoked by

the fact that Lord Hartington, in giving away the prizes at
the Polytechnic Y.M.C.A., had adopted Huxley's position as

defined in his speech, and declared that science ought to be
aided on precisely the same grounds on which we aid the

army and navy.

154                       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           chap, x

     In this letter he asks, how do we stand prepared for the

task thus imperatively set us ? We have the machinery

for providing              instruction  and information, and                       for      catching
                          but both in   a disjointed condition                              all mere
tcoarpsaobsle--mfeinne,,                                                           --"

                          but fragmentary." " The ladder from the
School Board to the Universities, about which I dreamed

dreams many years ago, has not yet acquired much more

substantiality than the ladder of Jacob's vision," but the
Science and Art Department, the Normal School of Science,

and the Central Institute only want the means to carry out

the recommendations already made by impartial and inde
pendent authority. " Economy does not lie in sparing

money, but in spending it wisely."
      He concluded with an appeal to Lord Hartington to

take up this task of organising industrial education and

bring it to a happy issue.

    A proposal was also made to the Royal Society to

cooperate, and Sir M. Foster writes on February 19: " We
have appointed a Committee to consider and draw up a

draft reply with a view of the R.S. following up your letter."

     To this Huxley replied on the 22nd :--

     . . . My opinion is that the R.S. has no right to spend its

money or pledge its credit for any but scientific objects, and that we

have nothing to do with sending round the hat for other purposes.

     The  SporoujtehctKeonfsitnhgetoInnstsitituet--e iCs ocmonmdiettmeenedas   it   stands   connected
with the                                                                      by   all the  city people

and will receive none but the most grudging support from them.

They are going to set up what will be practically an Institute of

Itheir own in the city.                                     it will go on and
      The thing is already a failure.   succedsasr--esatyo  become eventually                 be
varnished into a simulacrum of                                                                  a

ghost like the Albert Hall or revive as a tea garden.

     The   following      --letter also touches upon                          the  function   of the
Institute   from the
                          commercial side :

                                        4 Marlborough Place,

            Donnelly --Mr.                                                    Feb. 20, 1887.

           the notions that
    IMy dear

definition to
                                         ILaw's suggestion gives admirable

                                        were floating in my mind when

wrote in my letter to the Times, that   imagined the Institute

would be a "place in which the fullest stores of industrial know
ledge would be made accessible to the public." A man of business

                      TECHNICAL EDUCATION                                                                          155

who wants to know anything about the prospects of trade with say,

Boorioboola-gha (vide Bleak House) ought to be able to look into
the Institute and find there somebody, who will at once fish out for

him among the documents in the place all that is known about

Boorioboola.

But a Commercial Intelligence Department is not all that is

wanted, vide valuable letter aforesaid.
    I hope
               your   --appmetinitee   for  the breakfast was none the worse                                       f--or
last night's  doings                  was                                                 I Ha.mHduogx-lteireyd..
Ever yours                                  rather  improved,  but

              very faithfully,                                   T.

I return Miss             's note.          She evidently thinks my cage is

labelled "These animals bite."

Later in the year, the following letters show him con

tinuing the campaign. But an attack of pleurisy, which

began the very day of the Jubilee, prevented him from

coming to speak at a meeting upon Technical Education.

In the autumn, however, he spoke on the subject at

Manchester, and had the satisfaction of seeing the city
" go solid," as he expressed
                                                    for technical education.
                          I

                                            4 it,

                                                                                      1,
The circumstances of this visit are given later.

                                                    Marlborough Place, N.W.,

                                                    May                                   1887.

My dear Roscoe -- met Lord Hartington at the Academy

Dinner last night and took the opportunity of urging upon him the
importance of following up his technical education speech. He

told me he had been in communication with you about the matter,

and he seemed to me to be very well disposed to your plans.

may go on crying in the wilderness until am hoarse, with no
II                                                  4
result, butI ishe and      you and Mundella will               take                           up, something
may be done. -- Ever      yours very faithfully,        I
          a if                                                   T.                       H. Huxley.
                                                                  it
                  II                                          Marlborough Place,
                      I                                         June 28, 1887.

My dear Roscoe -- Donnelly was here on Sunday and was quite

right up to date.     felt ought to be better, and could not make

out why  the deuce    of  wpalseunroist.y--Ywehsitcehrdahyas  the mischief came                  by  out.
There          touch                                            been covered                          the

muscular rheumatism.

     So am relegated to bed and told to stop there -- with the

company of cataplasms to keep me lively.                       serious -- but

do not think the attack                     in      any way                                      M.                PI.

                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                                           CHAP. X

is a gentleman not to be trifled with, when you are over sixty, and

there is nothing for it but to obey my doctor's orders.
      IPray do not suppose would be stopped by a trifle, if my com
Iing

will
      to the meeting   1  would     rebaellyabsheanvt.e--bEeevner  of use.        hope you
      say how grieved                                               yours         faithfully,
                          I am to                                           very
                                                                   T. H. Huxley.

      My dear Roscoe--I have scrawled                    4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                June 29, 1887.

                                                        a variety of comments on

the paper you sent me. Deal with them as you think fit.

    Ever since I was on the London School Board I have seen that
the key of the position is in the Sectarian Training Colleges and

that wretched imposture, the pupil teacher system. As to the former

Delendae sunt no truce or pact to be made with them, either
Church or Dissenting. Half the time of their students is occupied

with grinding into their minds their tweedle-dum and tweedle-

dee theological idiocies, and the other half in cramming them with
boluses of other things to be duly spat out on examination day.

Whatever is done do not let us be deluded by any promises

of theirs to hook on science or technical teaching to their present

work.
Itfuon-neriIgalhatmt2o--g-dreabayut)tly--mydeivsbgerunosttheiefdr-mint-yhlaawtd'osIctocdraenahtnhaodtwcnoooumtldefohratboviedTdsyetonnpdpameldle's
                                                                                                                                                      dinner
                                                                                                                                                    me (the
                                                                                                                                                    to leave

my bed. He says have some pleuritic effusion on one side and
                 P's and Q's. -- Ever
must   mind  my                        yours            very  faithfully,
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

    A good deal of correspondence at this time with Sir M.
Foster relates to the examination of the Science and Art

Department. He was still Dean, it will be remembered, of
the Royal College of Science, and further kept up his

connection with the Department by acting in an honorary

capacity as Examiner, setting questions, but less and less

looking over papers, acting as the channel for official
                                                                   24), " I send
communications, as            wdhoecnumheentws ri--tes   (April                                                                                      you
some Department                                         nothing      alarming,                                                                      only

more worry for the Asst. Examiners, and that we do not
mind " ; and finally signing the Report. But to do this

after taking so small a share in the actual work of examin

ing,  hgerewwritemsor:e--and  more  repugnant           to    him,  till on October

12

       1 Of July 1, on Technical Education.                        2 See p. 166.

1887 PSEUDO-SCIENTIFIC REALISM  157

    I will read the Report and sign it if need be-- though there

really must be some fresh arrangement.

    Of course I have entire confidence in your judgment about
Ithe examination, but have a mortal horror of putting my name to
things I do not know of my own knowledge.

      In addition to these occupations, he wrote a short paper

upon a fossil, Ceratochelys, which was read at the Royal
Society on March 31 ; while on April 7 he read at the
Linnean (Botany: vol. xxiv. pp. 10 1-1 24), his paper, " The

Gentians : Notes and Queries," which had sprung from his
holiday amusement at Arolla.

      Philosophy, however, claimed most of his energies. The
campaign begun in answer to the incursion of Mr. Lilly was

continued in the article "Science and Pseudo- Scientific

Realism" (Coll. Essays, v. 59-89) which appeared in the
Nineteenth Century for February 1887. The text for this
discourse was the report of a sermon by Canon Liddon,
in which that eminent preacher spoke of catastrophes as the
antithesis of physical law, yet possible inasmuch as a " lower
law " may be " suspended " by the " intervention of a higher,"
a mode of reasoning which he applied to the possibility of

miracles such as that of Cana.

      The man of science was up in arms against this incar
nation of abstract terms, and offered a solemn protest against
that modern recrudescence of ancient realism which speaks
of " laws of nature " as though they were independent enti
ties, agents, and efficient causes of that which happens,
instead of simply our name for observed successions of facts.

      Carefully as all personalities had been avoided in this
article, it called forth a lively reply from the Duke of

Argyll, rebuking him for venturing to criticise the preacher,

whose name was now brought forward for the first time, and
raising a number of other questions, philosophical, geological,
and biological, to which Huxley rejoined with some selec
tions from the authentic history of these points in " Science
and Pseudo-Science" (Nineteenth Century, April 1887, Coll.

Essays, v. 90- 125).
      Moreover, judging from the vivacity of the Duke's reply

that some of the shafts of the first article must have struck
nearer home than the pulpit of St. Paul's, he was induced

           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                               chap, x

to read " The Reign of Law," the second chapter of which,
dealing with the nature of " Law," he now criticised sharply
as " a sort of ' summa ' of pseudo-scientific philosophy," with
its confusions of law and necessity, law and force, " law in
the sense, not merely of a rule, but of a cause."

      He wound up with some banter upon the Duke's picture
of a scientific Reign of Terror, whereby, it seemed, all men

of science were compelled to accept the Darwinian faith,
and against which Huxley himself was preparing to rebel,

as  if,

        I  am supposed to be waiting for the signal of " revolt,'
forsooth,

which some fiery spirits among these young men are to raise before

I  dare express my real opinions concerning questions about which

wganreadnodldoilbeorlqouqmeuenynt--heaopdfithsteoot mfieogthfht inignRewtihghenichtoeefmthTigehrotrforfai--elmrcobesetfopruejubsltiocifuyropeevpxeocneslilteitonhtne
                             a

successors had left school.

    Here for while the debate ceased. But in the Sep
           a

tember number of the Nineteenth Century, the Duke of

Argyll returned to the fray with an article called " A Great

Lesson," in which he attempted to offer evidence in support

of his assertions concerning the scientific reign of terror.

The two chief pieces of evidence adduced were Bathybius

and Dr. (now Sir J.) Murray's theory of coral reefs. The

former was instanced as a blunder due to the desire of

finding support for the Darwinian theory in the existence

of this widespread primordial life the latter as case in
                                ;
                                              !

                                                                a
which a new theory had been systematically burked, for

fear of damaging the infallibility of Darwin, who had pro

pounded a different theory of coral reefs

    Huxley's reply to this was contained in the latter half

of an article which appeared in the Nineteenth Century for
November 1887, under the title of " Science and the Bishops "

(reprinted both in Controverted Questions and in the Col
lected Essays, v. 126, as " An Episcopal Trilogy
                                                                   Preach
                                                  ").
ing at Manchester this autumn, during the meeting of the
                                                                       !'
British Association, the Bishops of Carlisle, Bedford, and

Manchester had spoken of science not only with knowledge,
but in the spirit of equity and generosity. " These sermons,"
he exclaims, " are what the Germans call Epochemachend

                 AN EPISCOPAL TRILOGY                                                                       159

     How often was it my fate (he continues), a quarter of a century
ago, to see the whole artillery of the pulpit brought to bear upon
the doctrine of evolution and its supporters ! Anyone unaccustomed
to the amenities of ecclesiastical controversy would have thought
we were too wicked to be permitted to live.

After thus welcoming these episcopal advances, he once

more repudiated the d priori argument against the efficacy
of prayer, the theme of one of the three sermons, and then

proceeded to discuss another sermon of a dignitary of the

Church, which had been sent to him by an unknown cor
                                                                                                            --
respondent, for  "there seems   tcooubnetenaannceimptroesisti--on    abroad
                   to give any                                     that I                                   am
I do not desire

fond of reading sermons."

Now this preacher was of a very different mind from

the three bishops. Instead of dwelling upon the "supreme

importance of the purely spiritual in our faith," he warned

his hearers against dropping off any of the miraculous
integument of their religion. " Christianity is essentially
miraculous, and falls to the ground if miracles be impossible."

He was uncompromisingly opposed to any accommodation

with advancing knowledge, or with the high standard of

veracity, enforced by the nature of their pursuits, in which

Huxley found the only difference between scientific men

and any other class of the community.

But it was not merely this misrepresentation of science

on its speculative side which Huxley deplored ; he was

roused to indignation by an attack on its morality. The
preacher reiterated the charge brought forward in the " Great
Lesson," that Dr. Murray's theory of coral reefs had been

actually suppressed for two years, and that by the advice

of those who accepted        for fear of upsetting the infalli
                           it,
bility of the great master.
                                                                                                         ;
Hereupon he turned in downright earnest upon the

originator of the assertion, who, he considered, had no more

than the amateur's knowledge of the subject. A plain

statement of the facts was refutation enough. The new

theories, he pointed out, had been widely discussed they

had been adopted by some geologists, although Darwin him

self had not been converted, and after careful and prolonged

re-examination of the question, Professor Dana, the greatest

i6o            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     chap, x

"Ifliving authority on coral reefs, had rejected them. As
Professor Judd said,            this be a ' conspiracy of silence,'
                          geological speculator seek for fame ? "
where, alas ! can the

Any warning not to publish in haste was but advice to

a still unknown man not to attack a seemingly well-estab

lished theory without making sure of his ground.*

        As for the Bathybius myth, Huxley pointed out that

his announcement of the discovery had been simply a state

ment of the actual facts, and that so far from seeing in it a

confirmation of Darwinian hypotheses, he was careful to
warn his readers "to keep the questions of fact and the
questions of interpretation well apart." " That which in
terested me in the matter," he says, " was the apparent

..."analogy of Bathybius with other well-known forms of lower
life,"         if Bathybius were brought up alive from the

bottom of the Atlantic to-morrow, the fact would not have
the slightest bearing, that I can discern, upon Mr. Darwin's

speculations,  or upon any of the disputed problems of biology."
               his " eating the leek " afterwards, his ironical
And as for

account of it is an instance of how the adoption of a plain,

straightforward course can be described without egotism.

     IThe most considerable difference         note among men (he

concludes) is not in their readiness to fall into error, but in their
readiness to acknowledge these inevitable lapses.

        As the Duke in a subsequent article did not unequi

vocally withdraw his statements, Huxley declined to continue

public controversy with him.

        Three years later, writing (October 10, 1890) to Sir J.
Donnelly apropos of an article by Mr. Mallock in the Nine
                                               " Bathybius
--teenth Century,  which  made  use of the                  myth,"

he says :

      Bathybius is far too convenient a stick to beat this dog with
to be ever given up, however many lies may be needful to make
the weapon effectual.

    I told the whole story in my reply to the Duke of Argyll,

but of course the pack give tongue just as loudly as ever. Cleri
cally-minded people cannot be accurate, even the liberals.

      I give here the letter sent to the " unknown corre

                          1 Letter in Nature.

1887 SCIENTIFIC CREEDS                                                      161

spondent " in question, who had called his attention to the

fourth of these sermons.

                                                  4 Marlborough Place,

                                                           Sept. 30, 1887.

    I have but just returned to England after two months' absence,

and in the course of clearing off a vast accumulation of letters,

I have come upon yours.

     The Duke of Argyll has been making capital out of the same

circumstances as those referred to by the Bishop. I believe that

the interpretation put upon the facts by both is wholly misleading

and erroneous.

     It is quite preposterous to suppose that the men of science of

this or any other country have the slightest disposition to support
any view which may have been enunciated by one of their col

leagues, however distinguished, if good grounds are shown for

believing it to be erroneous.

    When Mr. Murray arrived at his conclusions I have no doubt

he was advised to make his ground sure before he attacked a

generalisation which appeared so well founded as that of Mr.

IfDarwin respecting coral reefs.

        he had consulted me I should have given him that advice
myself, for his own sake. And whoever advised him, in that sense,

in my opinion did wisely.

But the theologians cannot get it out of their heads, that

as they have creeds, to which they must stick at all hazards, so
have the men of
                  science. There is no            more ridiculous   delusion.
We, at any rate,  hold ourselves morally          bound to " try   all things
and hold fast to  that which is good " ;
                                                  and among public bene

factors, we reckon him who explodes old error, as next in rank

to him who discovers new truth.

     You are at liberty to make any use you please of this letter.

      Two letters on kindred subjects may appropriately

follow in this place. Thanking M. Henri Gadeau de Ker

ville for his " Causeries sur le Transformisme," he writes

(Feb. i):--
Dear Sir --Accept my best thanks for your interesting " caus

eries," which seem to me to give a very clear view of the present

state of the evolution doctrine as applied to biology.

     There is a statement on p. 87 "Apres sa mort Lamarck fut
completement oublie," which may be true for France but certainly

is not   so for  "EPnrginlacnipdl.es  From 1830    onwards   for  more than forty
years   Lyell's                       of Geology  " was one       the most widely
                                                              of

read scientific books in this country, and it contains an elaborate

criticism of Lamarck's views.         Moreover, they were largely debated
                                                                                    M
     VOL. II

162                  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                   chap, x

during the controversies which arose out of the publication of the
" Vestiges of Creation " in 1844 or thereabouts. We are certainly
not guilty of any neglect of Lamarck on this side of the Channel.

    If I may make another criticism it is that, to my mind, atheism

is,
             is

                                                       ;
                                                                       a
     on purely philosophical grounds, untenable. That there                                         no
                                                                                I iIf
evidence of the existence of such                                         being as the God of the theois
                                                                                                        a
logians              true enough but strictly scientific reasoning can take

us no further. Where we know nothing we can neither affirm nor

deny with propriety.

     The other in answer to the Bishop of Ripon, enclosing
a
                           is
     few lines on the principal representatives of modern

science, which he had asked for.                                                Marlborough Place,

                                                  I                             June 16, 1887.

                                                                  it 4
                                                                         is
     My dear Bishop of Ripon -- shall be very glad                                              can be

of any use to you now and always. But                                           not an easy task to

put into half-a-dozen sentences, up to the level of your vigorous

English,             statement that shall be unassailable from the point of
view of
I                    scientific fault-finder -- which shall be intelligible to the
    I

                 aa
general public and yet accurate.

         have made several attempts and enclose the final result.

think the substance               I is     all right, and though the form might

certainly be improved,                     leave that to you. When              get to
certain point of tinkering my phrases
                                                                          it Ihave to put them aside

for day or two.a
     Will you allow me to suggest that
                                                                                might be better not to

name any living man            ?           The temple of modern science has been

the work of many labourers not only in our own but in other

countries. Some have been more busy in shaping and laying the

stones, some in keeping off the Sanballats, some prophetwise in

indicating the course of the science of the future. It would be

hard to say who has done best service. As regards Dr. Joule, for

example, no doubt he did more than any one to give the doctrine

of the conservation of energy precise expression, but Mayer and

others run him hard.

     Of deceased Englishmen who belong to the first half of the

Victorian epoch, should say that Faraday, Lyell, and Darwin had
a

              I
                   I

                                                           I
exerted the greatest influence, and all three were models of the

highest and best class of physical philosophers.

     As for me, in part from force of circumstance and in part from

  conviction could be of most use in that way, have played the
part of something between maid-of-all-work and gladiator-general

for Science,         maned. --dWesietrhve     no   such   prominence as         your kindness has
assigned to                                our    united   kind regards         to Mrs. Carpenter
                                                                                T. H. Huxley.
and yourself, ever yours very faithfully,

             FACT AND SPECULATION                                   163

     A brief note, also, to Lady Welby, dated July 25, is
characteristic of his attitude towards unverified speculation.

I have looked through the paper you have sent me, but I

cannot undertake to give any judgment upon it. Speculations

such as you deal with are quite out of my way. I get lost the
moment I lose touch of valid fact and incontrovertible demonstration

and find myself wandering among large propositions, which may be

quite true but which would involve me in months of work if I were

to set myself seriously to find out whether, and in what sense, they
Iare true. Moreover, at present, what little energy
                                                                    possess is

mortgaged to quite other occupations.

     The following letter was in answer to a request which
I was commissioned to forward him, that he would consent
to serve on an honorary committee of the Societe des Pro-

fesseurs de Francais en Angleterre.

                                       Jan. 17, 1887.

    I quite forgot to say anything about the Comite d'honneur, and

as you justly remark in the present strained state of foreign politics

tIheshaclolnsbeeque"npceros udmaayn'  be serious. Please tell your  colleague that
                                      'appy." You need not tell      him that my

pride and happiness are contingent on having nothing to do for

the honour.

      In the meantime, the ups and downs of his health are
reflected in various letters of these six months. Much set
up by his stay in the Isle of Wight, he writes from Shanklin
on April 1 1 to Sir E. Frankland, describing the last meeting
of the x Club, which the latter had not been able to attend,

as he was staying in the Riviera : --

    IHooker, Tyndall, and alone turned up last Thursday. Lub

bock had gone to High Elms about used up by the House of
Commons, and there was no sign of Hirst.

     Tyndall seemed quite himself again. In fact, we three old fogies
voted unanimously that we were ready to pit ourselves against any
three youngsters of the present generation in walking, climbing, or

Ihead-work, and give them odds.

         hope you are in the same comfortable frame of mind.

    I had no notion that Mentone had suffered so seriously in the

earthquake of 1887. Moral for architects: read your Bible and
build your house upon the rock.

     The sky and sea here may be fairly matched against Mentone or

164  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, x

any other of your Mediterranean places. Also the east wind, which
has been blowing steadily for ten days, and is nearly as keen as the
Tramontana. Only in consequence of the long cold and drought
not a leaf is out.

      Shanklin, indeed, suited him so well that he had half a
mind to settle there. " There are plenty of sites for building,"
he writes home in February, " but I have not thought of

commencing a house yet." However, he gave up the idea ;

Shanklin was too far from town.

     But though he was well enough as long as he kept out

of London, a return to his life there was not possible for any

considerable time. On May 19, just before a visit to Mr.
F. Darwin at Cambridge, I find that he went down to St.

Albans for a couple of days, to walk ; and on the 27 th he
betook himself, terribly ill and broken down, to the Savernake
Forest Hotel, in hopes of getting " screwed up." This
" turned out a capital speculation, a charming spick-and-span

little country hostelry with great trees in front." But the
weather was persistently bad, " the screws got looser rather

than tighter," and again he was compelled to stay away

from the x.

    A week later, however, he writes :--

     IThe weather has been detestable, and  got no good till
Iyesterday, which was happily fine. Ditto to-day, so am picking
up, and shall return to-morrow, as, like an idiot as I am, I promised

to take the chair at a public meeting about a Free Library for

Marylebone on Tuesday evening.          I find it charming.

    I wonder if you know this country.

     On the same day as that which was fixed for the meeting

in favour of the Free Library, he had a very interesting

interview with the Premier, of   which he left the  :--following
notes, written at the Athenaeum  immediately after

                                                                                    June 7, 1887.
     Called on Lord Salisbury by appointment at 3 p.m., and had
twenty minutes' talk with him about the "matter of some public
interest" mentioned in his letter of the (29th).
     This turned out to be a proposal for the formal recognition of
distinguished services in Science, Letters, and Art by the institution
of some sort of order analogous to the Pour le Mcrite. Lord
Salisbury spoke of the anomalous present mode of distributing

1887 AN ENGLISH 1POUR LE MJSlilTE'                         165

honours, intimated that the Queen desired to establish a better
system, and asked my opinion.

    I said that I should like to separate my personal opinion from
Ithat which believed to obtain among the majority of scientific
Imen ; that thought many of the latter were much discontented

with the present state of affairs, and would highly approve of such a
proposal as Lord Salisbury shadowed forth.

That, so far as my own personal feeling was concerned, it was
Iopposed to anything of
                                                said that in Science
we had two advantages
either good or bad ; and
                        the kind for Science.
                        -- first, that a
                                                thmean"'scowntoermk piosradryempoonstsetrriatybly"
                        secondly, that

of foreigners judges us, and rewards good work by membership of

Academies and so forth.

     In Art, if a man chooses to call Raphael a dauber, you can't

prove he is wrong ; and literary work is just as hard to

judge.

    I then spoke of the dangers to which science is exposed by the

undue prominence and    wepiguhrpt oosefsm--en  who successfully apply scientific
knowledge to practical                          engineers, chemical inventors,

etc. etc. ; said it appeared to me that a Minister having such order

at his disposal would find it very difficult to resist the pressure

brought by such people as against the man of high science who

had not happened to have done anything to strike the popular
mind.

Discussed the possibility of submission of names by somebody
Ifor the approval and choice of the Crown. For Science,
Ithe R.S. Council might discharge that duty very fairly.   thought
                                                           thought
that the Academy of Berlin presented people for the Pour le
Aferite, but Lord S. thought not.

    In the course of conversation I spoke of Hooker's case as a

Iglaring example of the wrong way of treating distinguished men.

Observed that though did not personally care for or desire the

institution of such honorary order, yet I thought it was a mistake in

policy for the Crown as the fountain of honour to fail in recognition

of that which deserves honour in the world of Science, Letters,

and Art.                                        " Well, it seems that you
     Lord Salisbury smilingly summed up.
don't desire the establishment of such an order, but that if you were
in my place you would establish it," to which I assented.
Said he had spoken to Leighton, who thought well of the

project.

     It was not long, however, before he received imperative
notice to quit town with all celerity. He fell ill with what
turned out to be pleurisy ; and after recruiting at Ilkley, went

again to Switzerland.

166             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 chap, x

                                                    4 Marlborough Place,

     ...My dear Foster--                                     June 27, 1887.

                                      I am very sorry that it will be im

                                   [tIheammweeetlilngenooufghcomtomitlteeaeve  down for the
                                                                                the house
If Ipossible for me to attend

following Wednesday].
must go into the country that day to attend the funeral of my wife's

brother-in-law and my very old friend Fanning, of whom I may have
spoken to you. He has been slowly sinking for some time, and this

morning we had news of his death.                                              I had a con
      Things have been very crooked for me lately.
glomerate of engagements of various degrees of importance in the

latter half of last week, and had to forego them all, by reason of a
devil in the shape of muscular rheumatism of one side, which entered

me last Wednesday, and refuses to be wholly exorcised (I believe it
is my Jubilee Honour).* Along with and suppose the cause of
      regular liver upset.            iIf
                                                 it,
                                                   I
                                                                     if
it,                            II  am very seedy yet, and even Fanning's
   a

death had not occurred doubt            should have been ready to face

the Tyndall dinner.

     The reference to this " Tyndall dinner " explained inis
the following letters, which also refer to a meeting of the
London University, in which the projects of reform which

he himself supported met with smart rebuff.
                                      a
                                                    4  Marlborough Place,

                                                                                   May 13, 1887 .

     My dear Tyndall -- am very sorry to hear of your gout, but
                               I

they say when comes out at the toes flies from the better parts,
             is                                 it
                is

                     it
and that to the good.

     There      no sort of reason why unsatisfied curiosity should con

tinue to disturb your domestic hearth your wife will have the gout
too goes on. "They" can't bear the strain.;
     if
                                         is
         it
                                                   I
                                                         Ia
     The history of the whole business          this. A day or two before

I  spoke to you, Lockyer told me that various people had been talking

about the propriety of recognising your life-long work in some way

or other that, as you would not have anything else, dinner had
             ;

been suggested, and finally asked me to inquire whether you would
accept that expression of goodwill. Of course said would, and

   asked accordingly.
I

          1

                   I
                            I
     After you had assented spoke to several of our friends who
                                   I

      On the same day he describes this to Sir      Evans -- " have hardly been
                                              J.

                                                                 :

                                                               aI

                                                                             is
                                                                                      a
out of the house as far as my garden, and not much off my bed or sofa since              I

saw you last.   have had an affection of the muscles of one side of my body, the

proper name of which do not know, but the similitude thereof                             bird of prey

periodically digging in his claws and stopping your breath in playful way."

1887 A DINNER TO TYNDALL                                                     167

Iwere at the Athenaeum, and wrote to Lockyer.                 believe a strong

committee is forming, and that we shall have a scientific jubilation

Ion a large scale ; but have purposely kept in the background, and
confined myself, like Bismarck, to the business of "honest broker."

      But of course nothing (beyond preliminaries) can be done till
you name the day, and at this time of year it is needful to look well

ahead if a big room is to be secured. So if you can possibly settle

that point, pray do.

There seems to have been some oversight on my wife's part

about the invitation, but she is stating her own case. We go on a

visit to Mrs. Darwin to Cambridge on Saturday week, and the

ISaturday after that I am bound to be at Eton.
      Moreover, have sacrificed to the public Moloch so far as to

promise to take the chair at a public meeting in favour of a Free

Library for Marylebone on the 7th. As Wednesday's work at the
IGeological Society and the soiree knocked me up all yesterday,
I Ifshall be about finished expect on the 8th.
                                                              you are going to be

at Hindhead after that, and would have us for a day, it would be
I Ijolly ; but cannot be away long, as have some work to finish
Ibefore go abroad.

    I Inever was so uncomfortable in my life, think, as on Wednes
day when L                   was speaking, just in front of me, at the University.
Of course I was in entire sympathy with the tenor of his speech, but
I was no less certain of the impolicy of giving a chance to such a
master of polished putting-down as the Chancellor. You know

Mrs.   Carlyle said          that  Owen's sweetness    reminded her   of sugar of
lead.    Granville's         was   that plus butter                   Ever yours
                                                     of antimony !--
                                                              T. H. Huxley.
veryNf.aBit.h--fulDlyo, n't  swear,  but  get  Mrs. Tyndall,  who is patient and

good-tempered, to read this long screed.

                                                              May 18, 1887.
My dear Tyndall--I was very glad to get your letter yesterday
Imorning, and conveyed your alteration at once to Riicker, who is
Iacting as secretary.
                                   asked him to communicate with you directly

to save time.

    I hear that the proposal has been received very warmly by all

sorts and conditions of men, and that is quite apart from any action

of your closer personal friends. Personally I am rather of your

mind about the "dozen or score" of the faithful. But as that was

Iby no means to the mind of those who started the project, and,

moreover, might have given rise to some heartburning, have not

thought it desirable to meddle with the process of spontaneous

combustion. So look out for a big bonfire somewhere in the middle
of June ! I have a hideous cold, and can only hope
                                                              that the bracing
air of Cambridge, where we go on Saturday, may
                                                              set me right. --
                                                              T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

i 68              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                   CHAP. X

     To recover from his pleuritic " Jubilee Honour " he went
for a fortnight (July 1 1-25) to Ilkley, which had done him
so much good before, intending to proceed to Switzerland as

soon as he conveniently could.

                                                          Ilkley, July 15, 1887.

    My dear Foster--I was very much fatigued by the journey
here, but the move was good, and I am certainly mending, though
not so fast as I could wish. I expect some adhesions are interfering
Iwith my bellows. As soon as I am fit to travel am thinking of

going to Lugano, and thence to Monte Generoso. The travelling
is easy to Lugano, and I know the latter place.

    My notion is I had better for the present avoid the chances of

...a wet, cold week in the high places.
      M.B.A.*     As to the employment of the Grant, I think it

ought to be on something definite and limited. The Pilchard

question would be an excellent one to take up.

       seems to have a notion of employing it on some geo

logical survey of Plymouth Sound, work that would take years and

years to do properly, and nothing in the way of clear result to show.
    I
        hope   to be in London on my way abroad in less than         ten
days'  time,
              and will let you know. -- Ever yours very faithfully,
                                                  T.'h. Huxley.

      And on the same day to Sir J. Donnelly :--

      I expect . . . that I shall have a slow convalescence.  Lucky

it is no worse !

      Much fighting I am likely to do for the Unionist cause or any

other ! But don't take me for one of the enrages. If anybody will

show me a way by which the Irish may attain all they want without

playing the devil with us, I am ready to give them their own talking-

shop or anything else.

    But that is as much writing as I can sit up and do all at once.

                  Marine Biological Association.

                             CHAPTER XI

                                 1887

On the last day of July he left England for Switzerland,
and did not return till the end of September. A second
visit to Arolla worked a great change in him. He renewed
his Gentian studies also, with unflagging ardour. The fol
lowing letters give some idea of his doings and interests :--

                  Hotel du Mont Collon, Arolla, Switzerland,

                                                               Aug. 28, 1887.

    My dear Foster -- I know you will be glad to hear that I con

sider myself completely set up again. We went to the Maderaner

IThai and stayed a week there. But got no good out of
                                                                    I
charmingly pretty, but damp and, moreover, the hotel was                    I it.
It                               I
50 per cent too full of people, mainly Deutschers, and we had to
      a isturn out into the open air after dinner because the salon and fumoira
               awere full of beds. So, in spite of all prudential considerations,;

made up my mind to come here. We travelled over the Furca, and

had capital journey to Evolena. Thence came on muleback (to
                                                     aa

                                                       I
my great disgust, but could not walk bit uphill) here.              began
                           I; I
to get better at once and in spite of heavy snowfall and arctic

weather           week ago,      have done nothing but mend. We have

glorious weather now, and        can take almost as long walks as

last year.

We have some Cambridge people here Dr. Peile of Christ's
                                                     ?
                                                       1
                                                              :
and his family. Also Nettleship of Oxford. What                     the myth
                                                                 is
about the Darwin tree in the Pall Mall                                         it
                                                               Dr. Peile believes to

be all flam.
1
      Forel has just been paying visit to the Arolla glacier for the
purpose of ascertaining the internal temperature. He told me hea

       " A tree planted yesterday in the centre of the circular grass-plot in the first

court of Christ's College, in Darwin's honour, was 'spirited' away at night."
--P.M.G. August 23, 1887.

              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, xi

much desired to have a copy of the Report of the Krakatoa Com
Ifmittee.
              it is published, will you have a copy sent to him ? He

is Professor at Lausanne, and a very good man.
Our stay here will depend on the weather. At present it is
            I do not suppose we shall leave before 7th or 8th of
perfect.

September,   and we shall    get  home   by easy stages    not  much  before
the end of                 Ever   yours  very faithfully,
            the month. --                              T. H. Huxley.

Madder than ever on Gentians.

     The following is in reply to Sir E. Frankland's enquiries
with reference to the reported presence of fish in the
reservoirs of one of the water-companies.

                                          Hotel Righi Vaudois, Glion,

                                                         Sept. 16, 1887.

We left Arolla about ten days ago, and after staying a day

at St. Maurice in consequence of my wife's indisposition, came on
Ihere where your letter just received has followed me.
                                                                am happy
I Ito say am quite set up again, and as can manage my 1500 or
I2000 feet as well as ever, may be pretty clear that my pleurisy has

not left my lung sticking anywhere.        (1) The faith of your small

    I will take your enquiries seriatim.

boyhood is justified. Eels do wander overland, especially in the
                                              But so far as I know
wet stormy nights they prefer for migration.
this is the habit only of good-sized, downwardly-moving eels. I am

not aware that the minute fry take to the land on their journey

upwards.
(2) Male eels are now well known. I have gone over the
evidence   myself and   examined many.       But the   r--epjruosdt utchteivecoonrgtraanrsy
of both   sexes remain  undeveloped in    fresh water

of salmon, in which they remain undeveloped in salt water.

    (3) So far as I know, no eel with fully-developed reproductive

organs has yet been seen. Their matrimonial operations go on in

the sea where they spend their honeymoon, and we only know the
result in the shape of the myriads of thread-like eel-lets, which

Imigrate up in the well-known "eel-fare."     think it possible that the

      (4) On general principles of eel-life
Inspector's theory may be correct. But your story about the roach
is a poser. They certainly do not take to walking abroad. It

reminds me    of the story   of the Irish   milk-woman who was        con
fronted with  a stickleback  found in the  milk. " Sure, then, it     must

have been bad for the poor cow when that came through her teat."

      Surely the Inspector cannot have overlooked such a crucial fact
as the presence of other fish in the reservoirs ?

1887 LETTERS FROM SWITZERLAND                                                              171

    We shall be here another week, and then move slowly back to
           I
London.        am loth to leave   this  pliance,alwl hdicirhecistiovnesry--btweaoutoifrul   with
splendid  air  and charming      walks                                                     three

thousand feet up if you like.

                        Hotel Righi Vaudois, Glion, Switzerland,

                                         Sept. 16, 1887.

    My dear Donnelly -- We left Arolla for this place ten days

ago, but my wife fell ill, and we had to stay a day at St. Maurice.

She has been more or less out of sorts ever since until to-day.

IHowever, hope now she is all right again.
GeneTvhais--is15a00verfyeect haabromviengthpelaclaekea--t tahned
higher up if you like.                                            east    end  of the Lake of
                                                                   you    can  walk 3000 feet
      What they call a
ifof 1 in               " funicular     railway                   " hauls  you up a gradient
                                                                  in ten   minutes. At first
           from the station on the shore

the sensation on looking down is queer, but you soon think nothing

of it. The air is very fine, the weather lovely, the feeding

unexceptionable, and the only drawback consists in the "javelins,"

as old Francis Head used to call them -- stinks of such wonderful

crusted flavour that they must have been many years in bottle. But
I Ithis
    is a speciality of all furrin parts that                        have  ever visited.  --legs
      am very well and extremely lazy so                          far as  my head goes
I am willing to use to any extent up hill or down dale. They wanted
                                         in the middle of October, but
me to go and speechify at      Keighley
                               from the  authorities. Moreover, I really
I could not get permission

mean to keep quiet and abstain even from good words (few or
many) next session. My wife joins with me in love to Mrs.

Donnelly and yourself.

of   She thought she had written,    --buEt vdeoruybotusrsw,hetheTr .          in the multitude
    her letters she did not forget.                                             H. Huxley.

    From Glion also he writes to Sir M. Foster :--

    I have been doing some very good work on the Gentians in the

interests of the business of being idle.

    The same subject recurs in the next letter :--

                        Hotel Righi Vaudois, Glion, Switzerland,

                                         Sept. 21, 1887.

    IMy dear Hooker -- saw in the Times yesterday the
Iannouncement of Mr. Symonds' death.
                                                                  suppose the deliverance

from so painful a malady as heart-disease is hardly to be lamented

in one sense ; but these increasing gaps in one's intimate circle are
very saddening, and we feel for Lady Hooker and you. My wife has

1 72            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                       chap, xi

been greatly depressed by hearing of Mrs. Carpenter's fatal disorder.

One cannot go away for a few weeks without finding somebody gone

on one's return.

    I got no good at the Maderaner Thai, so we migrated to our
old quarters at Arolla, and there I picked up in no time, and in a
fortnight could walk as well as ever. So if there are any adhesions

they are pretty well stretched by this time.

     I have been at the Gentians again, and worked out the develop
ment of the flower in G. purpurea and G. campestris. The results

are very pretty. They both start from a thalamifloral condition,

then become corollifloral, G. purpurea at first resembling G. lutea

and G. campestris, an Ophelia, and then specialise to the Ptychantha

and Stephanantha forms respectively.                           The

     In G. campestris there is another very curious thing.

anthers are at first introrse, but just before the bud opens they

assume     thisInpoGsi.tipounrp[uskreetacht]hisanddoetshennot  turn right over and become
extrorse.                                                       happen, but the anthers are

made to open outwards by their union on the inner side of the slits

of dehiscence.

     There are several other curious bits of morphology have turned

up, but I reserve them for our meeting.

      Beyond pottering away at my Gentians and doing a little with

that extraordinary Cynanchum I have been splendidly idle. After
three weeks of the ascetic life of Arolla, we came here to acclimatise

ourselves to lower levels and to fatten up. I go straight through the

table d'hote at each meal, and know not indigestion.

      My wife has fared not so well, but she is all right again now.

We go home by easy stages, and expect to be in Marlborough Place

on Tuesday.                     to Lady Hooker                 and yourself -- Ever
      With all our best wishes                                   T. H. Huxley.

yours,

     The second visit to Arolla did as much good as the first.

Though unable to stay more than a week or two in London
itself, he was greatly invigorated. His renewed strength

enabled him to carry out vigorously such work as he had
put his hand to, and still more, to endure one of the greatest
sorrows of his whole life which was to befall him this autumn
in the death of his daughter Marian.

      The controversy which fell to his share immediately upon
his return, has already been mentioned (p. 1 6 8). This was
all part of the war for science which he took as his necessary

portion in life ; but he would not plunge into any other
forms of controversy, however interesting. So he writes to

        SCIENCE AND POLITICS

his son, who had conveyed  him a message from  the editor of

a political review :--

                                          4 Marlborough Place,

                                                    Oct. 19, 1887.

INo political article from me !           have had to blow off my

Iindignation incidentally now and then lest worse might befall me,
but as to serious political controversy,  have other fish to fry.
Such influence as I possess may be most usefully employed in
promoting various educational movements now afoot, and I do not

want to bar myself from working with men of all political parties.

So excuse me in the prettiest language at your command to

Mr. A.

      Nevertheless politics very soon drew him into a new con
flict, in defence, be it said, of science against the possible
contamination of political influences. Prof, (now Sir) G. G.
Stokes, his successor in the chair of the Royal Society,
accepted an invitation from the University of Cambridge to
stand for election as their member of Parliament, and was
duly elected. This was a step to which many Fellows of the
Royal Society, and Huxley in especial, objected very
strongly. Properly to fulfil the duties of both offices at

once was, in his opinion, impossible. It might seem for the

moment an advantage that the accredited head of the

scientific world should represent its interests officially in
Parliament ; but the precedent was full of danger. Science
being essentially of no party, it was especially needful for
such a representative of science to keep free from all possible

entanglements ; to avoid committing science, as it were,
officially to the policy of a party, or, as its inevitable con

sequence, introducing political considerations into the choice
of a future President.

      During his own tenure of the Presidency Huxley had

carefully abstained from any official connection with societies
or public movements on which the feeling of the Royal

Society was divided, lest as a body it might seem committed
by the person and name of its President. He thought it a
mistake that his successor should even be President of the

Victoria Institute.

      Thus there is a good deal in his correspondence

174                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                   chap, xi

bearing       on this  matter.   He writes on November 6 to Sir J.
Hooker
              :--

     I am extremely exercised in my mind about Stokes' going into
Parliament (as a strong party man, moreover) while still P.R.S. I do
wnorotngkn--owanwd hdaet gyraoduingmaytothtihnek                   to my mind
                                                  about      but  introducing
                                                           it,
                                                  Society--     by

                                                                                            it
                                                                                                 is
                                                                                        utterly
                                                                               politics into

its affairs.

     And on the same day to Sir M. Foster --
                                                             a
                                                                          :

                                                                        I
                                                                                        I
I      think   it  is  extremely improper for the President of the R.S. to

accept position as party politician. As Unionist should vote
       a                  a

for him  iIf   had vote for Cambridge University, but for all that
                       a

think  it      most lamentable that the Presidency of the Society should
           is

be dragged into party mud.

     When was President refused to take the Presidency of the
              I                  I

Sunday League, because of the division of opinion on the subject.

Now we are being connected with the Victoria Institute, and

sucked into the slough of politics.

     These considerations weighed heavily with several both

of the older and the younger members of the Society but
                                                                  ;
                                                                                                ;
the majority were indifferent to the dangers of the precedent.

The Council could not discuss the matter they waited in

vain for an official announcement of his election from the

President, while he, as          it               turned out, expected them to

broach the subject.

     Various proposals were discussed but                                   seemed best
                                                             ;

                                                                        it

that, as preliminary to further action, an editorial article
              a
                              a
written by Huxley should be inserted in Nature, indicating
what was felt by section of the Society, and suggesting that
resignation of one of the two offices was the right solution

of the difficulty.     seemed that perhaps, after all, " masterly

     Finally,      it                                                       a

inactivity " was the best line of action. Without risk of an
authoritative decision of the Society " the wrong way," out

of personal regard for the President, the question would be
solved for him by actual experience of work in the House of

Commons, where he would doubtless discover that he must
" renounce either science, or politics, or existence."

     This campaign, however, against principle, was carried  a
on without any personal feeling. The perfect simplicity of

the President's attitude would have disarmed the hottest

1887 SCIENCE AND POLITICS                                                             175

opponent, and indeed Huxley took occasion to write him

tFhoesteforll:o--wi"ngI  letter, in reference to which he writes to                   Dr.
                         hate doing things in the dark and could                      not

stand it any longer."

                                                                                                             Dec. 1, 1887.

    IMy dear Stokes -- When we met in the hall of the Athenaeum

on Monday evening was on the point of speaking to you on a some

what delicate topic ; namely, my responsibility for the leading article

Ion the Presidency of R.S. and politics which appeared a fortnight
ago in Nature. But was restrained by the reflection that I had

Ino right to say anything about the matter without the consent of
the Editor of Nature.    have obtained that consent, and I take

the earliest opportunity of availing myself of my freedom.
        I should have greatly preferred to sign the article, and its anony

mity is due to nothing but my strong desire to avoid the introduc

tion of any personal irrelevancies into the discussion of a very grave

question of principle.

I I may add that as you are quite certain to vote in the way that

   think right on the only political questions which greatly interest

me, my action has not been, and cannot be, in any way affected by

political feeling.
    IAnd
Iman of
        sacsientcheere--isnonoonoene   of whom         have a  higher opinion as a
                                      whom      should be      more glad to serve

under, and to support year after year in the Chair of the Society,
        no one for whom I entertain       feelings of more sincere friendship
Ia--nd                                   there is a word in the article which
        trust you will believe that, if

appears inconsistent with these feelings, it is there by oversight, and

is sincerely regretted.

        During the thirty odd years we have known one another, we

have often had stout battles without loss of mutual kindness. My

        object in troubling you with this letter
        whatever happens, this state of things
chief                                             is to
                                                  may
Ithat,
                                                               ceoxpnrteinssue.th--e  hope
                                                               T. H. Huxley.            am,

yours very faithfully,
        PS. --I am still of opinion that it is better that my authorship
Ishould not be officially recognised, but you are, of course, free to

use the information have given you in any way you may think fit.

      To this the President returned a very frank and friendly
reply ; saying he had never dreamed of any incompatibility

existing between the two offices, and urging that the Presi

dency ought not to constrain a man to             give         up  his  ordinary

duties as a citizen. He concludes :--

    IAnd now have stated my case as it appears to myself ; let me

assure you that nothing that has passed tends at all to diminish

176             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xi

my friendship towards you. My wife heard last night that the article
Iwas yours, and told me so.
                                                                       rather thought it must have been
written by some hot Gladstonian. It seems, however, that her

informant was right. She wishes me to tell you that she replied
to her informant that she felt quite sure that if you wrote
                                                                            is                             was

because you thought                                                             I
I                                                                                         it,I

                                  it.                                                                  it

                                                                         :
     To which Huxley replied --

     am much obliged for your letter, which just such as felt

sure you would write.

     Pray thank Mrs. Stokes for her kind message.                           am very grate

ful for her confidence in my uprightness of intention.

     We must agree to differ.

     It may be needful for me and those who agree with me to place

our opinions on record but you may depend upon that nothing
     It                                                                     it
        J.

                                                 ;
                                                                    ;
will be done which can suggest any lack of friendship or respect for

our President.

a         will be seen from this correspondence and the letter
                           aato Sir Donnelly of July 15 (p. 179), that Huxley was a
staunch Unionist. Not that he considered the actual course
of English rule there ideal his main point was that under
the circumstances the establishment of Home Rule was a
distinct betrayal of trust, considering that on the strength
of Government promises, an immense number of persons

had entered into contracts, had bought land, and staked their

fortunes in Ireland, who would be ruined by the establish
ment of Home Rule. Moreover, he held that the right of

self-preservation entitled a nation to refuse to establish at

its very gates power which could, and perhaps would, be

  danger to its own existence. Of the capacity of the Irish

peasant for self-government he had no high opinion, and
what he had seen of the country, and especially the great
central plain, in his frequent visits to Ireland, convinced him

that the balance between subsistence and population would

speedily create new agrarian question, whatever political
schemes were introduced. This was one of " the only poli

tical questions which interested him."
      Towards the end of October he left London for Hastings,

partly for his own, but still more for his wife's sake, as she
was far from well. He was still busy with one or two Royal

Society Committees, and came up to town occasionally to

attend their meetings, especially those dealing with the

                       ROYAL SOCIETY BUSINESS                                                                  177

borings in the Delta, and with Antarctic exploration.                                                        Thus

he writes :--

                                                      II EVeRsFIEld PlACe, HAsTINGs,

                                                                                     Oct. 31, 1887.

    My dear Foster -- We have been here for the last week, and

are likely to be here for some time, as my wife, though mending, is

getting on but slowly, and she will be as well out of London through

beastly November. I shall be up on Thursday and return on Friday,
Ibut do not want to be away longer, as it is lonesome for the wife.

    I quite agree to what you propose on Committee, so I need

not be there. Very glad to hear that the Council "very much

Iapplauded what we had done," and hope we shall get the £500.

         don't believe a word in increasing whale fishery, but scientifi

cally, the Antarctic expedition would, or might be very interesting,

and if the colonies will do their part, I think we ought to do ours.

    TYhouursdwaoyn.'t--wEavnet r  me at    that   Committee                          either.     Hope to see  you
                                   yours,                                                        H. Huxley.
on                                                                                           T.

    Hideous pen !

    But he did not come up that Thursday. His wife was

for a time       too   ill to be left, and               he   winds                  --up his        letter    of
November         2 to   Dr. Foster with               the    reflection                 :

    Man is born to trouble as the sparks, etc. --but when you have
                                                      as I do-- Lucky it is no worse.
come to my       tim6.e--oIf      life  you will say  hear that the £500 is granted,
       November                   am    very glad to
and I will see to what is next to be done as soon as I can. Also I

am very glad to find you don't want my valuable service on Council

R.S. I repented me of my offer when I thought how little I

might be able to attend.

    One thing, however, afforded him great pleasure at this

time.   H:--e    writes           on    November      6     to                       his old     friend,  Sir  J.
Hooker

    IfI write just to say what infinite satisfaction the award of the
Copley Medal to you has given me.                               you                  woefrejunsotitcem--y odfeawr hoicldh
                                                            matter
friend, it would rejoice                me   as   a   mere
there is none too much                  in  this
                                                   "        rum world," as Whitworth's

friend called    it it.

                                                                                  :
    To the reply that the award was not according to rule,

inasmuch as was the turn for the medal to be awarded                                                           in

another branch of science, he rejoins --

    vol. II                                                                                               N

178                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y             CHAP. XI

     I had forgotten all about the business -- but he had done nothing
Ito deserve the Copley,                can say is that if the present
                                      hass " as Mr. Bumble said.
is contrary to law, the
                           and all                                     award
                           " law's a
                                                                       But I

don't believe that it is.

      He replies also on November 5 to a clerical correspondent
who had written to him on the distinction between shehretz
and rehmes, and accused him of " wilful blindness " in his

theological controversy of 1886: --

     Let me assure you that it is not my way to set my face against

being convinced by evidence.
      I really cannot hold myself to be
of                                       responsible for the translators
     the Revised Version of the O.T.
                                         If I had given a translation of

Ithe passage to which you refer on my own authority, any mistake
would be mine, and should be bound to acknowledge              As did
                            's
not, have nothing to admit.
                              I is
                                   I

                                            is

                                          I
                                              I

                                                                     it it.
                                                                                          it.

                                                                        I

                                                                                                      in is
     If, I                            have every respect for your and
                 's
Mr. authority as Hebraists, but have noticed that Hebrew

scholars are apt to hold very divergent views, and before admitting

either your or Mr.            interpretation, should like to see the

question fully discussed.

     when the discussion concluded, the balance of authority

against the revised version,          will carefully consider how far the

needful alterations may affect the substance of the one passage

my reply to Mr. Gladstone which affected by

     At present      I   am by no means clear that  will make much

difference, and in no case will the main lines of my argument as to

the antagonism between modern science and the Pentateuch be
                              Ifhave made are public property.
affected. The statements    it, I
                                             I

                                                            I
you think they are in any way erroneous        must ask you to take

upon yourself the same amount of responsibility as have done,

and submit your objection to the same ordeal.

     There nothing like this test for reducing things to their true
     is

            if
proportions, and you try you will probably discover, not without

some discomfort, that you really had no reason to ascribe wilful

blindness to those who do not agree with you.

     He was now preparing to complete his campaign of

the spring on technical education by delivering an address

to the Technical Education Association at Manchester on

November 29, and looked forward to attending the anni

versary meeting of the Royal Society on his way home next

day, and seeing the Copley medal conferred upon his old

friend, Sir          J.  Hooker. However, unexpected trouble befell

him. First he was much alarmed about his wife, who had

                 DEA TH OF HIS DA UGHTER                                179

been ill more or less ever since leaving Arolla. Happily it

turned out that there was nothing worse than could be set

right by a slight operation. But nothing had been done

"Iwhen news came of the sudden death of his second daughter
on November 19.                have no heart for anything just now,"

he writes ; nevertheless, he forced himself to fulfil this

important engagement at Manchester, and in the end the

necessity of bracing himself for the undertaking acted on

him as a tonic.

It is a trifle, perhaps, but a trifle significant of the

disturbance of mind that could override so firmly fixed a

habit, that the two first letters he wrote after receiving the

news are undated ; almost the only omission of the sort I

have found in all his letters of the last twenty-five years of

his life.

His daughter's long illness had left him without hope

for months past, but this, as he confessed, did not mend

matters much. In his letters to his two most intimate

friends, he recalls her brilliant promise, her happy marriage,
her " faculty for art, which some of the best artists have told

me amounted to genius." But he was naturally reticent in

these matters, and would hardly write of his own griefs

unbidden even to old friends.

                                          85 Marina, St. Leonards,

                                                        Nov. 21, 1887.

My dear Spencer -- You will not have forgotten my bright girl

Marian, who married so happily and with such bright prospects half

a dozen years ago ?

     Well, she died three days ago of a sudden attack of pneumonia,

which carried her off almost without warning. And I cannot convey

to you a sense of the terrible sufferings of the last three years better
than by saying that I, her father, who loved her well, am glad that

the end has come thus. . . .

My poor wife is well- nigh crushed by the blow. For though I

Ihad             was    --not  in the nature of things that she should.
lost hope, it     this
Don't answer                   have half a mind to tear it up -- for when

one is in a pool of trouble    there  is no sort of good in splashing other
                                                            T. H. Huxley.
people. -- Ever yours,

     As for his  plans,  he    writes to  Sir J.  Hooker  on  November

--2 1 :

i8o           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         CHAP. XI

     II had set my heart on seeing you get the Copley on the 30th.
In fact, I made the Manchester people, to whom                            had made a

promise to go down and address the Technical Education Associa

tion, change their day to                the 29th for that reason.    up  the  business
                                         in the lurch after stirring
    I cannot leave them
I Iin the way have done, and must go and give my address. But
I must get back to my poor wife as fast as I can, and I cannot face

any more publicity than that which it would be cowardly to shirk
just now. So I shall not be at the Society except in the spirit. --
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours,

     And again to Sir M. Foster :--

     You cannot be more sorry than I am                         that  I   am going      to
rMuannncihnegstearw, ayb--ut foIr                                     no   popery "  and
                                   am    not proud of chalking  up "
                                    all  Evans' and your chaff  -- and, having done a

good deal to stir up the Technical Education business and the

formation of the Association, I cannot leave them in the lurch when

they urgently ask for my services. . . .                                  I have no

      The Delta business must wait till after the 30th.
heart for anything just now.

     The letters following were written in answer to letters
of sympathy.

                                         85 Marina, St. Leonards,

                                                      Nov. 25, 1887.

     My dear Mr. Clodd-- Let me thank you on my wife's behalf

and my own for your very kind and sympathetic letter.

      My poor child's death is the end of more than three years of

suffering on her part, and deep anxiety on ours. I suppose we

ought to rejoice that the end has come, on the whole, so mercifully.

But I find that even I, who knew better, hoped against hope, and

my poor wife, who was unfortunately already very ill, is quite heart

broken. Otherwise, she would have replied herself to your very

kind letter.
IhardShweorhkastonetevaecrhyehterl.e--arnEevderthyeouarrst
                                         of sparing herself,              and  find it
                                         very faithfully,

                                                                T. H. Huxley.

     I n the same strain he writes to Dr. Dyster :--

      Rationally we must admit that it is best so. But then, what

ever Linnaeus may say, man is not a rational animal -- especially

in his parental capacity.

1887 TECHNICAL EDUCATION                                                                          1S1

                                    85 Marina, St. Leonards,

                                                 Nov. 25, 1887.

     My dear Knowles -- I really    must thank you      very heartily for
your letter. It went to our hearts  and did us good,
                                                        and I know you

will like to learn that you have helped us in this grievous time.

    My wife is better, but fit for very little; and I do not let her
write a letter even, if I can help it. But it is a great deal harder to

keep her from doing what she thinks her duty than to get most

other people    to do what plainly is their duty.  of  you-- Ever,                            my  dear
      With our  kindest love and thanks to all         T. H. Huxley.

Knowles, yours very faithfully,

    Yes, you are quite right about "loyal." I love my friends and

hate my enemies, which may not be in accordance with the Gospel,

but I have found it a good wearing creed for honest men.

     The " Address on behalf of the National Association for
the Promotion of Technical Education," first published in the
ensuing number of Science and Art, and reprinted in Collected
Essays, iii. 427-451, was duly delivered in Manchester, and

produced a considerable effect.

     He writes to Sir M. Foster, December --1 :

II am glad resisted the strong temptation to shirk the business.
Manchester has gone solid for technical education, and if the idiotic

London papers, instead of giving half a dozen lines of my speech,

had mentioned the solid contributions to the work announced at the

...meeting, they would have enabled you to understand its importance.
work,       Iamhavneontehethseatwisofarcsetionphyosficahlalyvi--ngragtohterththroeubgehttear  hard bit of
       and                                                                                     for having

to pull myself together.

And to Sir J. Hooker :--            85 Marina, St. Leonards,

                                                  Dec. 4, 1887.

My     dear     Hooker --x=S, 6.30. I meant to          have written to
       all to
you             put off the x till next Thursday, when  I could attend,
Ibut I have been so bedevilled forgot it. I shall ask for a bill
of indemnity.
                                                                                              In fact my
    I was rather used up yesterday, but am picking up.

Manchester journey convinced me that there was more stuff left than
II thought for.
                 travelled 400 miles, and made a speech of fifty
minutes in a hot, crowded room, all in about twelve hours, and was

none the worse. Manchester, Liverpool, and Newcastle have now

182           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xi

gone in for technical education on a grand scale, and the work is
practically done. Nunc Dimittis !

    I hear great things of your speech at the dinner. I wish I could

have been there to hear it. . . .

     Of the two following letters, one refers to the account of
Sir J. D. Hooker's work in connection with the award of the

Copley medal ; the other, to Hooker himself, touches a
botanical problem in which Huxley was interested.

     ...My dear Foster --               St. Leonards, Nov. 25, 1887.

                                  I forget whether in the notice of

Hooker's work you showed me there was any allusion made to
that remarkable account of the Diatoms in Antarctic ice, to which I

once drew special attention, but Heaven knows where ?
     Dyer perhaps may recollect all about the account in the Flora

Antarctica, if I mistake not. I have always looked upon Hooker's
              pthieeceimopforitnaqnucieryo--f athnetsiceiptahtiinvges
insight into                                                            and their skeletons  as a
remarkable                                                             of subsequent deep     sea

work.

     Best thanks for taking so much trouble about H                           . Pray tell
Ihim if ever you
              write   that  have  tnhoint kanmswyesreildencheisTu.lentcHtiev.ril.Honu. lyx. l.be--eyc.Eauvseer
I awaited yourreply.        may
                        He
yours,

                                            4 Marlborough Place,

                                                       Dec. 29, 1887.

      Where is the fullest information about distribution of Coniferae ?

Of course I have looked at Genera PL and De Candolle.
    I have been trying to make out whether structure or climate or

paleontology throw any light on their distribution -- and am drawing

complete blank. Why the deuce are there no Conifers but Podo

carpus and Widringtonias in all Africa south of the Sahara ? And

why the double deuce are about three-quarters of the genera

huddled together in Japan and N. China ?

    I am puzzling over this group because the paleontological record

is comparatively so good.

    I am beginning to suspect that present distribution is an affair
rather of denudation than
      Sequoia! Taxodium !   migration.      Araucaria                  I all  in Europe,
                            Widringtonia !

in Mesozoic and Tertiary.

      The following letters to Mr. Herbert Spencer were
written as sets of proofs of his Autobiography arrived.

                                                                                       183

That to Sir J. Skelton was to thank him for his book on
Maitland of Lethington, the Scotch statesman of the time
of Queen Mary.

                                                                       Jan. 18, 1887.

             (The first part of this letter is given on p. 161.)

IMy dear Spencer-- I see that your proofs                              have  been  in my
hhaavnedsbeloennge"r   than     "thaot utghhet   for. But you   may    have  seen
                      starring                  Mansion House.                     that I
                                                                   ..  .
I am immensely tickled with your review of your own book.
That is something most originally Spencerian. I have hardly any

suggestions to make, except in what you say about the Rattlesnake

work and my position on board.                         survey of the so-called "inner
     Her                                               and the east coast of Australia ;
          "  proper business was                  the
passage      between the Barrier                Reef

the New Guinea work was a hors d'auvre, and dealt with only a

Ismall part of the
      Macgillivray
                      swoausthenrantucraoalisstt.--    was actually Assistant-Surgeon
and nothing else. But I was recommended to Stanley by Sir

John Richardson, my senior officer at Haslar, on account of my
scientific proclivities. But scientific work was no part of my duty.

How odd it is to look back through the vista of years ! Reading

your account of me, I had the sensation of studying a fly in amber.
I had utterly forgotten the particular circumstance that brought

Ius together.         Considering what wilful tykes we both are (you
                      think it is a great credit to both of us that we are
particularly),

firmer friends now than we were then. Your kindly words have

given me much pleasure.
This is a deuce of a long letter to inflict upon you, but there is
more coming. The other day a Miss
                                                                , a very good, busy
woman of whom I and my wife have known a little for some years,

sent me a proposal of the committee of a body calling itself the

London Liberty League (I think) that I should accept the position

of one of three honorary something or others, you and Mrs.

IFawcett being the other two.                          should be glad enough to be

      Now you may be sure that

associated with you in anything ; but considering the innumerable

battles we have fought over education, vaccination, and so on, it
seemed to me that if the programme of the League were wide

enough to take us both for figure-heads, it must be so elastic as to

verge upon infinite extensibility ; and that one or other of us would

be in a false position.                         to that effect, and the matter then

    So I wrote to Miss

dropped.

184                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         chap, xi

     Misrepresentation is so rife in this world that it struck me I had

better tell you exactly what happened.
      On the whole, your account of your own condition is encourag

ing ; not going back is next door to going forward. Anyhow, you
have contrived to do a lot of writing.

     We are all pretty flourishing, and if my wife does not get worn

out with cooks falling ill and other domestic worries, I shall be

content.   this       really  is the  end. --Ever  yours very  truly,
      Now                                                      T. H. Huxley.

                                      4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,
                                                            March 7, 1887.

    My dear Skelton -- Wretch that I am, I see that I have never

had the grace to thank you for Maitland of Lethington which

Ireached me do not choose to remember how long ago, and which
I read straight off with lively satisfaction.

    There is a paragraph in your preface, which I meant to have

charged you with having plagiarised from an article of mine, which

had not appeared when I got your book. In that Hermitage of

yours you are up to any Codesicobuddhistotelepathic dodge !

     It is about the value of practical discipline to historians. Half
of them know nothing of life, and still less of government and the

Iways of men.

         am quite useless, but have vitality enough to kick and scratch

a little when prodded.

    I am at present engaged on a series of experiments on the thick

ness of skin of that wonderful little wind-bag                 . The way that

second-rate amateur poses as a man of science, having authority as

a sort of papistical Scotch dominie, bred a minister, but stickit,
really "rouses my corruption." What a good phrase that is! I
am cursed with a lot of and any fool can strike ile. -- Ever yours
                                      it,

very faithfully,                                    T. H. Huxley.*

     Please remember me very kindly to Mrs. Skelton.

                                           II EVeRsFIeld PlACe, HAsTINGs,

                                                   Nov. 18, 1887.

         My dear Spencer -- was very glad to get your letter this
                                      II
morning.              heard all about you from Hirst before left London,
           I                                                   I

               a
                             a
now nearly            month ago, and       I  promised myself that instead of

bothering you with letter would run over from here and pay you

visit.
a
      1  This letter  is  one of the twelve from T. H. H. already published by Sir

John Skelton in his Tatic Talk Shirley, p. 295 sq.
                                      of

                    LETTERS TO MR. SPENCER

      Unfortunately, my wife, who had been ill more or less ever
since we left Arolla and came here on Clark's advice, had an attack

one night, which frightened me a good deal, though it luckily

turned out to arise from easily remediable causes.

    Under these circumstances you will understand how I have not

made my proposed journey to Brighton.

    I am rejoiced to hear of your move. I believe in the skill of
IDr. B. Potter and her understanding of the case more than do in

all the doctors and yourself put together. Please offer my respect

ful homage to that eminent practitioner.
           You see people won't let me alone, and I have had to tell the
IDuke to " keep on board his own ship," as the Quaker said, once
more.        seek peace, but do not ensue            a it.

           Send any quantity of proofs, they are good sign. By the way,

we     move  to 85  Marina, St. Leonards, to-morrow.
       Wife  sends
                    her kind regards. -- Ever yours very        faithfully,

                                                                T. H. Huxley.

                                                85 Marina, St. Leonards,

                                                                  Dec. 1887.

           My dear Spencer-- have nothing to criticise in the enclosed
                                I
except that the itineraries seem to me rather superfluous.I

       It Iam glad to find that you forget things that have happened to

y"oSuir    as completely as     do. should      cut almost      as bad      figure as
           Roger " : iIf        cross-examined  about my        past life.I
                             awere                                             a
                           I                                                     I
           Your allusion to sending me the proofs made me laugh by

reminding me        of        particularly insolent  criticism with       which     once
favoured you        " No      objection except to    the whole."

             was some piece of diabolical dialectics, in which could pick
                    the premises were granted -- and even then could be
no hole,     a if

                    by
questioned only an ultra-sceptic
     Do you see that the American Association of Authors has
                                      is
adopted Resolution, which                 a!    complete endorsement of my
view of the stamp-swindle
                                ?

           We have got our operation over, and my wife going on very
                                                                is
well.        Overmuch     anxiety has been    telling       on              shall throw
    off.                   very faithfully,                       I       Huxley.
           -- Ever yours                                        me, but
it
                                                                  T. H.

                          CHAPTER XII

                          1888

Huxley had returned to town before Christmas, for the house

in St. John's Wood was still the rallying-point for the family,
although his elder children were now married and dispersed.

But he did not stay long. "Wife wonderfully better," he
writes to Sir M. Foster on January 8, " self as melancholy as

a pelican in the wilderness." He meant to have left London

on the 1 6th, but his depressed condition proved to be the

beginning of a second attack of pleurisy, and he was unable

to start for Bournemouth till the 24th.
Here, however, his recovery was very slow. He was
                                               of the x Club. "
unable to   come up to the first meeting       at the next x-- but  I
trust," he                                                          I
            writes, " I shall be able to be

am getting on very slowly. I can't walk above a couple of

miles without being exhausted, and talking for twenty minutes

has the same effect. I suppose it is all Anno Domini."

      But he had a pleasant visit from one of the x, and

writes :--

                          Casalini, West Cliff, Bournemouth,

                                Jan. 29, 1888.

     My dear Hooker -- Spencer was here an hour ago as lively as
a cricket. He is going back to town on Tuesday to plunge into the
dissipations of the Metropolis. I expect he will insist on your all

going to Evans' (or whatever represents that place to our descend

Iants) after the x.       --took me six weeks  tnoowgTe. t.--thHEev.merHmuyeoxnulderseyd.vlearsyt

     Bellows very creaky   may expect as long

time, so I suppose

faithfully,

1S88 THE 'STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE'                                                           187

As appears from the letters which follow, he had been

busied with writing an article for the Nineteenth Century, for
February, on the " Struggle for Existence," 1 which on

the one hand ran counter to some of Mr. Herbert Spencer's

theories of society ; and on the other, is noticeable as
briefly enunciating the main thesis of his " Romanes
Lecture " of 1893.

                                                               85 Marina, St. Leonards,

                                                                                                 Dec. 13, 1887.

My dear Knowles -- I have to go to town to-morrow for a day,

so that puts an end to the possibility of getting my screed ready for

January. Altogether it will be better to let it stand over.

    I do not know whence the copyright extract came, except that,
as Putnam's name was on the envelope, I suppose they sent it.

      Pearsall Smith's practice is                   a   wonderful    commentary    --oint   his
theory. Distribute the contents                          the baker's   shop gratis          will
                                                     of

give people a taste for bread !
      Great is humbug, and it will prevail, unless the people who do

not like it hit hard. The beast has no brains, but you can knock

the heart out of him. -- Ever yours very truly, T. H. Huxley.

                                                             4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                      Jan. 9, 1888.

My dear Donnelly -- Here is my proof. Will you mind

running your eye over it ?

      The article is long, and partly for that reason and partly because

the general public wants principles rather than details, I have con

densed   the practical  h"aJluf.s "  will  be            in  a white  rage with me. --Ever
         Spencer and
     H.                                                                T. H. Huxley.

yours very faithfully,

To Professor Frankland, February 6 :--

    I am glad you like my article. There is no doubt it is rather
Ilike a tadpole, with a very big head and a rather thin tail. But the

subject is a ticklish one to deal with, and deliberately left a good

deal suggested rather than expressed.

                                     Casalini, West Cliff, Bournemouth,

                                                             Feb. 9, 1888.

     My dear Donnelly        -- No         !         I don't think softening   has      begun
yet --vide " Nature " this                           I am glad you found       the      article
                             week.2

* Coll. Ess. ix. 195.
     f Nature (xxxvii. 337)  f"orInFdeubsrturaiaryl   9, 1888 : review of his  article  in the
Nineteenth Century on the                            Struggle for Existence."

iSS             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                  CHAP. XII

Iworth a second go.                             took    a  vast of trouble (as the  vceoryuntarnygrfyol--ks
say) about it. I am                             afraid     it has made Spencer
but he knows I think he has been doing mischief this long time.
      IfBellows to mend ! Bellows to mend ! I am getting very tired
of it.       I walk two or three miles, however slowly, I am regularly
                                                        I expect there has been more mischief
done for at the end of it.
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.
than I thought for.
      How about the Bill ?-- Ever yours,

      However, he and Mr. Spencer wrote their minds to each

other on the subject, and as Huxley remarks with reference
to this occasion, " the process does us both good, and in no

way interferes with our friendship."
     The letter immediately following, to Mr. Romanes,

answers an enquiry about a passage quoted from Huxley's
writings by Professor Schurman in his Ethical Import of

Ddiaffrewriennistme.ssaysT,hriusnspasassagfoel,lomwasd:e--up of sentences from two

     It is quite conceivable that every species tends to produce

varieties of a limited number and kind, and that the effect of natural

selection is to favour the development of some of these, while it

opposes the development of others along their predetermined line of
modification.* A whale does not tend to vary in the direction of

producing feathers, nor a bird in the direction of producing

w" hSac"lheubOromnnaent.hf erepsrteresenngttsh   of  these extracts   "    (writes Mr. Romanes),
                                                     ' to presuppose     design, since development
                                                you

takes place along certain predetermined lines of modification.' But
as he does not give references, and as I do not remember the

I Ipassages, cannot consult the context, which fancy must give a

different colouring to the extracts."

                                                                         4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                                   Jan. 5, 1888.

     My dear Romanes -- They say that liars ought to have long
                I am sure authors ought to. I could not at first
memories.
Iremember where the passage Schurman quotes occurs, but did find
it in the Encyclopedia Britannica article on "Evolution,"1 reprinted
Iin Science
             and Culture, p. 307.                                     " whale " here.     Neverthe-
      But    do not find anything about the

             f  In "Mr.           1 Coll. Ess. ii. 223.                  Ess.  ii.  181.
                         Darwin's Critics," 187 1 ; Coll.

iSSS THE ARGUMENT FROM DESIGN                                                                                                    189

Iless have a consciousness of having said something of the kind

somewhere.*

    If you look at the whole passage, you will see that there is not

Ifthe least intention on my part to presuppose design.

          you break a piece of Iceland spar with a hammer, all the pieces
will have shapes of a certain kind, but that does not imply that the

Iceland spar was constructed for the purpose of breaking up in this
way when struck. The atomic theory implies that of all possible

compounds of A and B only those will actually exist in which the
proportions of A and B by weight bear a certain numerical ratio.

But it is mere arguing in a circle to say that the fact being so is

evidence that it was designed to be so.
I am not going to take any more notice of the everlasting D
                                                                                                                                         ,

taisonysoPuroaafypdpguirtvoyeprahinaidmtelpyalecadasrleul srhesi.inm--g, --uEnvitetilrwhyieloluhrbases  withdrawn his slanders. . .      .
                                                                                                        one of those rare combina

                                                                                                        very faithfully,
                                                                                                        T. H. Huxley.

He was, moreover, constantly interested in schemes for

the reform of the scientific work of the London University,

and for the enlargement of the scope and usefulness of the

Royal Society. As for the latter, a proposal had been made

for federation with colonial scientific societies, which was

opposed by some of his       friends in  the x                                                          Club  ;         and  he  writes
to Sir E. Frankland on       February
                                         3 :--

I am very sorry you are all against Evans' scheme.                                                                           I am for
Iit. think it a very good proposal, and after all the talk, I do not

want to see the Society look foolish by doing nothing.

     You are a lot of obstructive old Tories and want routing out.

If I were only younger and less indisposed to any sort of exertion, I

would rout you out finely !

With respect to the former, it had been proposed that

medical degrees should be conferred, not by the university,

but by a union of the several colleges concerned.                                                                                He

writes :--

                                                                                                        4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                    Jan. 11, 1888.                                               "

My dear Foster -- I send back the " Heathen Deutscheree's
                         letter lest I forget
(whose ways are dark)                                                                                    it to-morrow.
      Meanwhile perpend    these two things
                                                                                                        :--

1. United Colleges propose to give just as good an examination

1 In "Mr. Darwin's Critics," 1871 ; Coll. Ess. ii. 181.

190            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                   chaii. xii

and require as much qualification as the Scotch Universities. Why

then give their degree a distinguishing mark ?

      2. "Academical     distinctions" in                       medicine   aCreambarllidgheum--buagn.d
You are making a        medical technical                       school at
                                        Coorlleasgelist,tleif"atchaedy emdoicatlhediirstibnucstiinoenss"
quite right too. The        United
properly, will confer just  as much,

as Cambridge by their degree.                                   of

as   3. The    F"eallcoawdsehmipicalof  tdhiestiCncotllieonge"  as  Surgeons is in every sense
    much an                                                         the Masterships in Surgery

or Doctorate of Medicine of the Scotch and English Universities.

     4. You may as well cry for the moon as ask my colleagues in

the Senate to meddle seriously with the Matriculation. They are
possessed by the devil that cries continually, "There is only the
Liberal education, and Greek and Latin are his prophets."

     At Bournemouth he also applied himself to writing the

Darwin obituary notice for the Royal Society, a labour of

love which he had long felt unequal to undertaking. The

MS. was finally sent off to the printer's on April 6, unlike

the still longer unfinished memoir on Spirula, to which

allusion is made here, among other business of the Challenger
Committee, of which he was a member.

    On February 1 2 he writes to Sir J. Evans :--

     Spirula is a horrid burden on my conscience -- but nobody could

make head or tail of the business but myself.

     That and Darwin's obituary are                                 tuhnetBiluctIhiegIef tdbsouabcnkjeoctttosgeLtoonfmdoumncy.h
                       I wake in
meditations    when    am afraid I      the night.
" forrarder,"                           shall not
               and I

                                                                Bournemouth, Feb. 14, 1888.

IpropMosyitiodneawrhiFchosrteelirev--esNothemdoufbrotmthfeurtThreeraseuxrpyenwseill--jbuumtp  at any
                                                                                              cannot
say I like the notion of leaving some of the most important results

of the Challenger voyage to be published elsewhere than in the

official record. . . .

      Evans made a deft allusion to Spirula, like a powder between

two dabs of jam. At present I have no moral sense, but it may

awake as the days get longer.

    I have been reading the Origin slowly again for the nth time,

with the view of picking out the essentials of the argument, for the

obituary notice. Nothing entertains me more than to hear people

call it easy reading.       Darwin's forte -- and his English

      Exposition was not    is a marvellous dumb sagacity                  aibs osuotmehtiimme--s
wonderful. But there

1888 WORKING AT THE DARWIN OBITUARY

like that of a sort of miraculous dog --and he gets to the truth by
       as dark as those of the Heathen
Iways  am getting quite sick of all the                   Chinee.          philosophers," as     old
                                                          " paper

Galileo called them, who are trying to stand upon Darwin's shoulders

Iand look bigger than he, when in point of real knowledge they are                                    I
not fit  to black his shoes. It is just                   a"s   well am collapsed                or
believe                                                        Fur Darwin."
         I should break out with a final
II will think of you when get as far as the fossils. At present
I am poking over P. sylvestris and P. pinnata in the intervals of

weariness.     joins with            me  in  love     to  you  both. --Ever        yours         very
                                                                              T. H. Huxley.
     My wife

faithfully,

      Snow and cold winds here.                       Hope you are as badly off at
Cambridge.

                                                      Bournemouth, Feb. 21, 1888.

My dear Foster-- We have had nothing but frost and snow

here lately, and at present half a gale of the bitterest north-easter I

I Ihave felt since we were at Florence is raging.*

    I believe am getting better, as have noticed that at a par
ticular stage of my convalescence from any sort of illness I pass

through a condition in which things in general appear damnable and

I myself an entire failure. If that is a sign of returning health you

may look upon my restoration as certain.

    If it is only Murray's speculations he wants to publish separately,

I should say by all means let him. But the facts, whether advanced
by him or other people, ought all to be in the official record. I

agree we can't stir.                     How confoundedly proud you are of                            . it!

    I scented the "goak."

In former days have been known to joke myself.
I                                                                              In my present
     I                                                                        views of critics.

              I

                                  a
         will  look   after          the questions    --oynouDilzikzye'.s                        state
of mind        shall  be              capital critic  if
-- Ever yours,                                                                                   ..
                                                                             a
                                                                                   T. H. H.

       This year Huxley was appointed                                           Trustee of the

British Museum, an office which he had held ex officio from
1883 to 1885, as President of the Royal Society.
     This referred to in the following letter of March                                           --
1                                                                                  9

              is is                                                                    :

                 J. I
     My dear Hooker-- Having nothing to do plays the devil with

doing anything, and suppose that why have been so long about
answering your letter.

     There nothing the matter with me now except want of strength.
                                                      is

                                                            I

       Similarly to Sir              "IEvans on the 28th --        get my strength back but

slowly, and think of migrating to Greenland or Spitzbergen for milder climate.
                                                                                a

192              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                          chap, xn

II am tired out with a three-mile walk, and my voice goes if talk
I Ifor any time. I do not suppose shall do much good till get into

Ihigh and dry air, and it is too early for Switzerland yet. . . .

     You see was honoured and gloried by a trusteeship of the

B.M.* These things, I suppose, normally come when one is worn-out.
When Lowe was Chancellor of the Exchequer I had a long talk with
him about the affairs of the Nat. Hist. Museum, and I told him that

he had better put Flower at the head of it and make me a trustee to

Iback him. Bobby no doubt thought the suggestion cheeky, but it

is odd that the thing has come about now that don't care for
        is

           I
                        a

                                     it
                                                                                            a

                                                                                                        it it,
and desire nothing better than to be out of every description of

bother and responsibility.

      Have not Lady Hooker and you yet learned that large country
house of all places the most detestable in cold weather? The

neuralgia was mild and kindly hint of Providence not to do

again, but am rejoiced has vanished.

     Pronouns  kginotdemstixreedgasrodms --ehoEwv.er  yours,         T. H. Huxley.
     With our

     More last words --What little faculty have has been bestowed
                      II :                            I

on the obituary of Darwin for R.S. lately.                    I      have been trying to

make an account of his intellectual progress, and                            hope   will
       it                                                             I            it
                                                                                           is
have some interest.       thAem"onOgrigoitnheorf      things      have    Ibeen trying to set
out the argument of                                    Species,"   and     reading the book
for the nth time for that purpose. It                 is

                                                        I
                                                              one of the hardest books

to understand thoroughly that know of, and suppose that
                               I

the reason why even people like Romanes get so hopelessly wrong.
    If you don't mind,
                            should be glad            if        you   wstoaugeld--ruLnorydoukrnoewyes
over the thing when       get as far as the                   proof

when that will be.

     A few days later he wrote again on the same subject,

after reading the obituary of Asa Gray, the first American
supporter of Darwin's theory.

     March 23. -- suppose Dana has sent you his obituary of Asa
is
Gray. 1
          is
                       p.

                  I

                             I

                                                                      in
                                                                           it

                                                 I is

                                                                                 I:

                                                                                                                        It
     The most curious feature                note                 that neither of them

seems to have mastered the principles of Darwin's theory. See the

bottom  of 19    "anAdntit-hDearwtoinpiaonf  p.       20. As        understand Darwin
there   nothing                               "       in either   of the two doctrines

mentioned.

       Replying on the 2nd to Sir John Evans' congratulations, he says -- "

    some months since Lord Salisbury made the proposal to me, and was
beginning to wonder what had happened -- whether Cantuar had put his foot
down for example, and objected to bad company."

1888 ARGUMENT OF THE ' ORIGIN'                                                                193

    Darwin has left the causes of variation and the question whether

it is limited or directed by external conditions perfectly open.
    The only serious work I have been attempting lately is Darwin's
Iobituary. I do a little every day, but get on very slowly.
                                                                                              have

read the life and letters all through again, and the Origin for the

sixth or seventh time, becoming confirmed in my opinion that it is

one of the most difficult books to exhaust that ever was written.
    I have a notion of writing out the argument of the Origin in
Isystematic shape as a sort of primer of Darwinismus.
                                                                              have not

Imuch stuff left in me,  and it            wdooulydoubethains kg?o--odEvaewr ayyouorfs,using  what
                           What
there is as know of.                                     T. H. Huxley.

     In reply to this Sir J. Hooker was inclined to make the

biographer alone responsible for the confusion noted in the

obituary of Asa Gray. He writes :--

                                                                      March 27, 1888.

    Dear Huxley -- Dana's Gray arrived yesterday, and I turned to
Ipp. 19, 20. I see nothing Anti- Darwinian in the passages, and do

not gather from them that Gray did.

    I did not follow Gray into his later comments on Darwinism,
and I never read his Darwiniana. My recollection of his attitude

after acceptance of the doctrine, and during the first few years of his
active promulgation of
              it                           that he understood clearly, but sought
                                                                    J. it
                               it,
                                 is                                             a
to harmonise           with his prepossessions, without disturbing its
                                                                                          I
physical principles in any way.
     He certainly showed far more knowledge and appreciation of

the contents of the Origin than any of the reviewers and than any

of the commentators, yourself excepted.
      Latterly he got deeper and deeper into theological and meta

physical wanderings, and finally formulated his ideas in an illogical

...fashion.    Be all  thissealfs-sougmhtay,onDea. --na    seems to   be  in     muddle       on
           and quite   a                                 Ever yours,          Hooker.
p.  20,                           it

                                                                          D.

    The following        is           a letter of thanks to Mrs. Humphry

Ward for her novel Robert Elsmere.

                                           Bournemouth, March 15, 1888.

    My dear Mrs. Ward -- My wife thanked you for your book

which    you were so    kind   as to       send us.      aBfutetr-tthhaatnkwsgaisvinggrace--baenfdore
meat,    which lacks   the "  physical
                                            basis " of

am going to supplement                it,  after my most excellent repast.

     VOL. II                                                                  O

194                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xii

    I am not going to praise the charming style, because that was in
Ithe blood and you deserve no sort of credit for it. Besides, should

-bheill--steqpupiitneg   beyond my    last.     But as  an observer           of the human ant
                        impartial by  this              think your            picture of one of
                                             time-- I

the deeper aspects of our troubled time admirable.

    You are very hard on the philosophers. I do not know whether
ILangham or the Squire is the more unpleasant -- but have a great
If Ideal of sympathy with the latter, so I hope he is not the worst.

            may say so, I think the picture of Catherine is the gem of
the book. She reminds me of her namesake of Siena --and would

as little have failed in any duty, however gruesome. You remember

Sodoma's picture.

     Once more, many    tlhoaven.k--s fEovrear  great     pleasure.
     My wife sends her                          yours      very faithfully,
                                                          T. H. Huxley.

      Meanwhile, he had been making no progress towards
health ; indeed, was going slowly downhill. He makes fun
of his condition when writing to condole with Mr. Spencer
on falling ill again after the unwonted spell of activity

already mentioned ; but a few weeks later discovered the
cause of his weakness and depression in an affection of the
heart. This was not immediately dangerous, though he
looked a complete wreck. His letters from April onwards
show how he was forced to give up almost every form of

occupation, and even to postpone his visit to Switzerland,

until he had been patched up enough to bear the journey.

                                    Casalini, West Cuff, Bournemouth,

                                                                       March 9, 1888.

    My dear Spencer -- I am very sorry to hear from Hooker that

you have been unwell again. You see if young men from the

country will go plunging into the dissipations of the metropolis

nemesis follows.

     Until two days ago, the weathercocks never overstepped N. on the

one side and E. on the                other   ever since  soyfotnueslse--ft.     Then   they went
west with sunshine and                most   enjoyable                                   S. with a
                                                                              but next
gale and rain -- all ablowin' and agrowin' at this present.
    II have nothing to complain of so long as I do nothing ; but

although my hair has grown with its usual rapidity differ from

Samson in the absence of a concurrent return of strength. Perhaps
that is because a male hairdresser, and no Delilah, cut it last ! But

I waste Biblical allusions upon you.

     My wife and Nettie, who is on a visit, join with me in best

wishes.

1888 RENEWED ILL-HEALTH                                                             '95

      Please   le--t Emveerhayvoeursa  line to say how you    are -- Gladstonianly  on
   post-card.                          very faithfully,         T. H. Huxley.
a

                                          Bournemouth, April 7, 1888.

    My dear Foster-- "Let thy servant's face be white before
Ithee." The obituary of Darwin went to Rix 1 yesterday ! It is not

for lack of painstaking if it is not worth much, but have been in a

Ibad vein for work of any kind, and thought I should never get

even this simple matter ended.

    I have been bothered with precordial uneasiness and inter
Imittent pulse ever since have been here, and at last I got tired of

it and went home the day before yesterday to get carefully over

Ihauled. Hames tells me there is weakness and some enlargement

of the left ventricle, which is pretty much what expected. Luckily

Ithe valves are all right.                myself to   coaxing the         left v. wall to
thickenamprotoratgao--aanmd ondgevothtee  mountains,  and to have         nothing to do

with any public functions or other exciting bedevilments. So the

International Geological Congress will not have the pleasure of
Iseeing its Honorary President in September.
                                                                    am disgusted at
Ihaving to break an engagement, but cannot deny that Hames is
right. At present the mere notion of the thing puts me in a funk.

  ...I II wish could get out of the chair of the M.B.A. also.
know that you and Evans and Dyer will do your best, but you are

all  eaten up with other    oycocuurpamtioinnds.--there's                 fellow -- just
     Just turn it over in
                                                           a  dear  good

as if you hadn't any other occupations.

      With which eminently reasonable     and unselfish             request believe

me -- Ever yours,                                                    T. H. H.

                                          Bournemouth, April 10, 1888.

    IMy dear

your sake and
               Foster-- I              send by this   post    the   last  --      hope for
                                       the recording  angel
               for that of                                    --of            .*   I agree

to all Brady's suggestions.

    With all our tinkering I feel inclined to wind up the affair after
the manner of Mr.
Tristram's breeches  --Sha"nAdyn'sd     summing [up] of       the   discussion about
                                       when he has got        'em   he'll look a beast

in 'em."-- Ever yours,                                              T. H. H.

     April 1 2. To the same :--

     1 Assistant Secretary of the Royal Society.           A paper of his, contributed to
     2 The "Heathen Deutscheree" of p. 189.
the Royal Society, had been under revision.

196           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, xn

    AI am quite willing to remain at the MB.                     till the opening.  If
Evans will be President I shall be happy.

     "        is a very good  man, but you must not expect too much                 of
        wild-cat " element,   which is so useful in the world, in him.
the  I am disgusted with myself for letting everything go by the run,

but there is no help for it. The least thing bowls me over just now.

                                   Casalini, West Cliff, Bournemouth,

                                                      April 12, 1888.

    My dear Hooker --I plead       not guilty.f       AIptriwl --as     agreed at   the
                                   be none in                                        by
last meeting that there should                                         I suppose
Ireason of Easter, so sent no notice. This is what Frankland told
I Ime in his letter of the 2nd. However, see you were present, so

can't make it out.

     My continual absence makes me a shocking bad Treasurer, and
I am sorry to say that things will be worse instead of better. Ever
Isince this last pleuritic business
                                         have been troubled with pre

Icordial uneasiness. [After an account of his symptoms he con

tinues] So am off (with my wife) to Switzerland at the end of
this month, and shall be away all the summer. We have not seen

Ithe Engadine and Tyrol yet, so we shall probably make a long

circuit. It is a horrid nuisance to be exiled in this fashion.

have hardly been at home one month in the last ten. But it is of

no use to growl.
     Under these circumstances, would you mind looking after the x

while I am away ? There is nothing to do but to send the notices

on   Saturday previous  to the meeting.  Hirst --though
                         to hear about
     I am very grieved                                           to say truth,      the

way he has held out for so long has been a marvel to me. The
last news I had of Spencer was not satisfactory.
     Eheu ! the " Table             " is breaking
     were such pleasant    Round                      up.         It's a great      pity ;
                         fellows,  weren't we ?--     Ever       yours,
we                                                               T. H. Huxley.

                                   Casalini, West Cliff, Bournemouth,

                                                     April 18, 1888.

of   My dear  Foster -- I          a"mLifceheearnedd  by your    liking of  t"heOrnigoitnic,"e
     Darwin.  I read the                              Letters,"  and the
I IKrause's " Life," and some other things over again in order to do it.

But have not much go in me, and was a scandalous long time

pottering over the writing.
    I have                                                                          I
            sent the    tphreoo"f   back with a variety of interpolations.          I
would have  brought                Spirula " notes down here to see what
Icould do, but I felt pretty sure that if brought two things I should

     1 In the matter of sending out no notices for a meeting of the x Club.

1888 DEA TH OF MA TTHE W A RNOLD                                                                 197

I Inot do one. Nobody could do anything with it but myself. I will
try what  can do when go to town. How much time is there

before the wind-up of the Challenger?
    IWe go up to town Monday next, and I am thinking of being off
the Monday following       (Ap. 30).               have come to the same con
clusion as yourself, that  Glion would
                                                  be better than Grindelwald. I

should like very much to see you. Just drop me a line to say when
you are likely to turn up.
      Poor Arnold's death 1 has been a great                    shock--rather               for  his
wife than himself -- I mean on her account than his. I have always

thought sudden death to be the best of all for oneself, but under

such circumstances it is terrible for those who are left. Arnold
                                                                I do not suppose
told me years ago that he had heart disease.

there is any likelihood of an immediate catastrophe in my own case.
I should not go abroad if there were. Imagine the horror of leaving

one's wife to  fight all the     difficulties of sudden         aEtuAthraonllaa.si--a            in a
Swiss hotel !                    of that two years ago                                           Ever
yours,         I saw enough                                     T. H. Huxley.

    My dear Hooker--All                           4 Marlborough Place,
    the head -- at any rate for                          April 25, 1888.

on                               my               pbreeasuentitfu--l Sinwisfasvopulranos f  are knocked
                                 the                                                        horizontally

and Digitalis here. The journey up on Monday demonstrated that

I Itravelling, at present, was impracticable.                                               am quite

      Hames is sanguine shall get right with rest, and
satisfied with his opinion, but for the sake of my belongings he

thinks it right to have Clark's opinion to fortify him.
    It is a bore to be converted into a troublesome invalid even for
Ia few weeks, but
                 "  comfort   myself with my usual reflection on the
chances of life,    Lucky it
                     by what     is no worse."                  MAonsyeleiympthaitsienmcoernwinogu--ld
Ihave been checked                  heard about
                                                  A man in the prime of life !
that he has sunk into hopeless idiocy.                      T. H. Huxley.

-- Ever yours,

                                                  4 Marlborough Place,
                                                           May 4, 1888.

     My dear Hooker -- Best thanks for your note and queries.
    I remember hearing what you say about Darwin's father long

Iago, am not sure from what source. But if you look at p. 20 of

tmheindLif"ewaasndnoLtetstecrisentyifoiuc."willI  see that D.   himself says                 his father's
                                                  have altered   the passage                so as to use

these exact words.

     I used " malice " rather in the French sense, which is more

     1 Matthew Arnold died suddenly of heart disease at Liverpool, where he had
gone to meet his daughter on her return from America.

198               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                   chap, xn

innocent than ours, but " irony " would be better if " malice " in any

way suggests malignity.        "Chaff" is unfortunately beneath the

Idignity of an R.S. obituary.

         am going to add a short note about Erasmus Darwin's views.
     IIt is a great comfort to me that you like the thing.
                                                                                                 am
getting nervous over possible senility-- 63 to-day, and nothing of

your evergreen ways about me.

    II am decidedly mending, chiefly to all appearance by allowing

myself to be stuffed with meat and drink like a Strasburg goose.

am also very much afraid that abolishing tobacco has had something

to do with my amendment.                                           --keep
    But I
doctor. --   am   mindful of   your maxim                                      a  Ttig. htH.hoHlduxovleery.your
            Ever   yours very   faithfully,

     P.S. 1. -- Can't say I have sacrificed anything to penmanship,

and am     n2o.t--atItalils  sure about           --lutchiedriety   !  a  dot  over  the  i-- reopened
     P.S.
                             "Friday"                              is

my letter to crow !

     The following letter to Mr. Spencer is in answer to a

note of condolence           on his illness, in which the following

--passage occurs :

    I was grieved to hear of so serious an evil as that which [Hirst]

named. It is very depressing to find one's friends as well as one's

self passing more and more into invalid life.
      Well, we always have one consolation, such as it that we have

made our lives of some service in the world, and that, in fact, we
                                                                                     8, is,
are suffering from doing too much for our fellows. Such thoughts
do not go far in the way of mitigation, but they are better than                              I is
                                                                                                   I
nothing.

                                                                             Marlborough Place,
                                                        a
                                                                        4         May 1888.

     My dear Spencer -- have been on the point of writing to      I
I
    Iyou, but put off for lack of anything cheerful to say.

           itAfter had recovered from my pleurisy,                                could not think why

          Ia I
               I, I it

                                               a

                             I
my strength did not come back. It turns out that there                                       some

weakness and dilatation of the                    heart,           pbruiztelupckigil--y npohyvsaiclvaul laarndmimscehnietaf.l
    am condemned to the life
                                                  of

idleness, and corporeal stuffing with meat and drink, and am

certainly improving under the regimen.

     am told have fair chance of getting all right again. But

take as pretty broad hint to be quiet for the rest of my days.

At present        have to be very quiet, and                              I  spend most of my time

on my back.
     You and my dear friend, have had our innings, and carry our

1888 LETTERS                                                                                                     199

bats out while our side is winning. One could not reasonably ask

for more. And considering the infinite possibilities of physical and
                                               us, I,
moral   saurfeferninogwowrsheic. h--bEevseert          for my part, am            well          pleased        that
things                                         yours   very faithfully,
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

                                                       4           Marlborough Place,               N.W.,
                                                                            June I, 1888.
          dear Knowles --
for  My   last six weeks --no                  I have been living the        life               of a prize pig
                                                                            and                 drink, and as
     the                                        exercise, much meat

few manifestations of intelligence as possible, for the purpose of

Ipersuading my heart to return to its duty.                        a  kick  left                in  me --even
         am astonished to find that there is

when your friend Krapotkin pitches into me without the smallest
justification. Vide XIX., June, p. 820.
     Just look at XIX., February, p. 168.                             I say, " At the present

time, the produce of the soil does not suffice," etc.

    I did not say a word about the capabilities of the soil
                                                                   I                                       as part

                                                                                   is a
                                                                                    it

                                                                                                      a if,
and parcel of political and social revolution on the grandest scale,
          a
                    a
we all took to spade husbandry.

     As matter of fact, did try to find out year or two ago,
                       I
whether the soil of these islands could, under any circumstances,
                            is
feed its present population with wheat.                            could not get any definite

information, but understood Caird to think that could.
     In my argument, however, the questiona
                                                                                  of no moment.
                is I
There must be some limit to the production of food by given

area, and there none to population.

     What stimulus vanity !-- nothing but the vain dislike of being

thought in the wrong would have induced me to trouble myself or

bore you with this letter. Bother Krapotkin                           !

II      athminkgethtiisngarbtiectlteerv, erbyutinvteerryestsinlogwlya. n--d Eimveprorytaounrts  nevertheless.
                                                                                                 very truly,
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

     In reply, Mr. Knowles begged him to come to lunch
and a quiet talk, and further suggested, " as an entirely

unbiassed person," that he ought to answer Krapotkin's

errors in the Nineteenth Century, and not only in private
                                                                                                    Ia
letter behind his      back.                   --                                                           I
     The answer          as follows
                       is
                                                                   Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                       :
                                                                4

                                                                      June 1888.
              Knowles --Your invitation                            is
     My dear                                                                  3,                           wish
could accept                                                             tantalising.

                       But now some six weeks that my excursions
              it.
                             it
                                 is

200               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                    chap, xn

Ihave been limited to a daily drive. The rest of my time spend

on the flat of my back, eating, drinking, and doing absolutely

nothing besides, except taking iron and digitalis.
     I meant to have gone abroad a month ago, but it turned out
Ithat my heart was out of order, and though am getting better,
Iprogress is slow, and
                        do not suppose 1 shall get away for some

weeks yet.

    I have neither brains nor nerves, and the very thought of

controversy puts me in a blue funk !

     IMy doctors prophesy good things, as there is no valvular disease,
only dilatation. But    fovriewth)e--pYreosuenr t       must  subscribe myself (from
an editorial point of                              worthless   and useless and bad-
                                                                 T. H. Huxley.
hearted friend,

     The British Association was to meet at Plymouth this
year ; and Mr. W. F. Collier (an uncle of John Collier, his
son-in-law) invited Huxley and any friend of his to be his
guest at Horrabridge.

                                                   4 Marlborough Place,
                                                          June 13, 1888.

    My dear Mr. Collier --It would have been a great pleasure to

me to be your guest once more, but the Fates won't have it this time.

    IDame Nature has given me a broad hint that have had my

innings, and, for the rest of my time, must be content to look on at

the players.

    IIt is not given to all of us to defy the doctors and go in for a
new lease, as am glad to hear you are doing. I declare that your

open invitation to any friend of mine is the most touching mark of
confidence I ever received. I am going to send
Ially Michael Foster, Secretary of the Royal Society.         it to my great
Iwhether he has made any other arrangements, and                 do not know

                                                                am not quite
sure whether he and his wife are going to Plymouth. But I hope

they may be able to accept, for you will certainly like them, and

they will certainly like you. I will ask him to write directly to you

to save time.     kind  remembrances               to Mrs. Collier -- Ever yours
      With very
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

     II forgot to say that I am mending as fast as can expect to do.

                       CHAPTER XIII

                       1888

It was not till June 23 that Huxley was patched up suffi

ciently by the doctors for him to start for the Engadine.
His first stage was to Lugano ; the second by Menaggio
and Colico to Chiavenna ; the third to the Maloja. The

summer visitors who saw him arrive so feeble that he could

scarcely walk a hundred yards on the level, murmured that
it was a shame to send out an old man to die there. Their

surprise was the greater when, after a couple of months, they

saw him walking his ten miles and going up two thousand
feet without difficulty. As far as his heart was concerned,
the experiment of sending him to the mountains was perfectly
justified. With returning strength he threw himself once
more into the pursuit of gentians, being especially interested
in their distribution and hybridism, and the possibility of

natural hybrids explaining the apparent connecting links
between species. No doubt, too, he felt some gratification
in learning from his friend Mr. (now Sir W.) Thiselton Dyer,
that the results he had already obtained in pursuing this

hobby had been of real value :--

has  Your important    paper "On Alpine Gentians"    It(whraitsesledtheBalailtltoenr),

     begun to attract   the attention of botanists.

who is the most acute of the French people, to make some observa

tions of his own.

     At the Maloja he stayed twelve weeks, but it was not

until nearly two months had elapsed that he could write
of any decided improvement, although even then his anticipa
tions for the future were of the gloomiest. The " secret "

202                        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap, xiii

alluded to      in the     fmoelldoawlin:--g letter   is the destined award                                                                                 to
him of the      Copley

                                                      Hotel Kursaal, Maloja,
                                                   Ober Engadine, Aug. 17, 1888.

      IMy dear Foster -- know you will be glad to hear that, at last,
I can report favourably of my progress.
                                                       The first          wsiixndwye--eksin  of our
stay here the weather was cold, foggy,                wet, and
Ifeverything that it should not be.                                                           short,

                                      it

                                            I
                                                           I
                                                                               I is,
                                                   the hotel had not been as it

aswbhybhooincuuahltdmtelhah,eiadvaenmmdoedswot neuelcpl.oumfopfrAotrsotteanhbilsedwawayisson,rkoS--rwgiskotoztin.edrallayvAnedlroyB,orkibgeadhddotoannaftottetadrcokkmcnteooo.rwf--"wBlhivlaueter,t"t

      With the  early       days of   August the   hwadeathpeerrfeccht ansguemdmefror--thdeaybeattfteerr,
and for the     last       fortnight   we have

day.        soon picked up my walking power, and one day got up to
a

      I
            I

                       is
Lake Longhin, about 2000 feet up. That was by way of an experi
                                                      but usually my walks are of
ment, and was none the worse for                   I

more modest description. To-day we are all clouds and rain, andit,
                           down to zero, with precordial discomfort. It seems
my courage                                                         ;

to me that my heart        --quitealsl trtohneg     enough            to  do all that can reason
                           it is                                    the   machinery in good
ably be required of             if                 rest of                it
                                                                               is
order, and the outside conditions are favourable. But the poor old
pump cannot contend with grit or want of oil anywhere.                            is

II    mean to stay here as long as can they say                                     often very

fine up to the middle of September. Then we shall migrate lower,

probably on the Italian side, and get home most likely in October.

But really am very much puzzled to know what to do.

      My wife has not been very well lately, and Ethel has contrived

to sprain her ankle at lawn-tennis. Collier has had to go to Naples,

but   we expect him back in           a  few  days.                       youTrs.elHf --. HEvuexrleyoyu.rs,
      With our united love to          Mrs.   Foster
                                                      and

      was very pleased to hear of secret my wife communicated to
   I
                 I
                                    IIa
                                                    I
me. So long as was of any use, did not care much about having

the   fact  rec"oFguniismeud,s." but   now that    am used up like        the       feather                                                                 in
my    cap.                            Let us have  some news of you.

      Sir M. Foster, who was kept in England by the British

Association till September 10, wrote that he was going

abroad for the rest of September, and proposed to spend

some time at               Menaggio,  --whence he hoped to effect meeting.
He winds up                with jest
                                      at his recent unusual occupation
I

                                    a
                                                                                                     a

                                                                                                                                                         :
" have had no end of righteousness accounted to me for

iSSS A T MALOJA

helping to entertain Bishops at Cambridge."                                     Hence the

postscript in reply :--

                                             Hotel Kursaal, Maloja,

                                                                                              Sept. 2, 1888.

      My dear Foster--A sharp fall of snow has settled our minds,

which have been long wavering about future plans, and we leave

this for Menaggio, Hotel Vittoria, on Thursday next, 6th.1
      All the wiseacres tell us that there are fresher breezes (vento di
            Menaggio than                    in the Como country,
Lecco) at   we are going to  anywhere else                                                        and
at anyrate                   try whether we  can exist there. If it                              does

not answer, we will leave a note for you there to say where we are
Igone. It would be very jolly to forgather.

       am sorry to leave this most comfortable of hotels, but I do not
Ithink that cold would suit either of us. am marvellously well so long
I Ias am taking sharp exercise, and do my nine or ten miles without
I Ifatigue. It is only when am quiet that know that I have a heart.
      I do not feel at all sure how matters may be 4000 feet lower,
Ibut what    have gained is all to the good in the way of general
health. In spite of                                                      had, I have nothing
                     all the bad   weather   we have
but praise for this                 air is  splendid,                     excellent walks for
                     place -- the

invalids, capital drainage, and the easiest to reach of all places

6000 feet up.

looksMyforwwifaerdsetnodsmheeertinlogveh, ear.n--d tEhvaenrksyoMurrss,.  Foster for her letter,  and
                                                                               T. H. Huxley.

     Wash yourself clean of all that episcopal contamination or you

may infect me !

      But adverse circumstances prevented the meeting.

                                                           Hotel Kursaal. Maloja,

                                                                                             Sept. 24, 1888.

      My dear Foster--As ill luck would have we went over to
                                                                         ? it,
Pont Resina to-day (for the first time), and have only just got back
             have just telegraphed to you.
(5.30).
    I All our plans have  dboewennpouuprseht erbey--thuepsFeothnthewirnodad, sw, haincdh  gave us
four      I                                                                               flooded
       days' continuous

the Chiavenna-Colico Railway. We hear that the latter                           a         not yet
                                                                                   is
repaired.
         was going to write to you at the Vittoria, but thought you

could have hardly got there yet. We took rooms there week ago,

and then had to countermand them. If there are any letters kicking

about for us, will you ask them to send them on
     By way of an additional complication my poor wife gave herself

an unlucky strain this morning, and even the railway mended
                                            if                                  is               I

               He did not ultimately leave till the 22nd.

204             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                               chap, xiii

do not think she will be fit to travel for two or three days. We are

very disappointed. What is to be done ?

    I Iam wonderfully better. So long as am taking active exercise
Iand the weather is dry, I am quite comfortable, and only discover
that I have a heart when am kept quiet by bad weather or get my
liver out of order. Here I can walk nine or
                                                                                                       Iten miles up hill and
down dale  iswidthoouubttfudli.f--ficuElvtyeroyrofuartsig, ue.  What
elsewhere                                                                                                 may be able to do
                                                                                                         T. H. Huxley.

     It would do you and Mrs. Foster a great deal of good to come

up here. Not out of your way at all ! Oh dear no !

                                                                                                       Zurich, Oct. 4, 1888.

    My dear Foster -- I should have written to you at Stresa, but
I had mislaid your postcard, and it did not turn up till too late.

idnouwnnWdaettoiomnthased--eLasuokpewsoe--urwwmehneitnredtshtehaeftoegrthroeaurllnwdtahyawtoouwvleedr  would as soon not go

            from T.    tofirsRt a--gactoz,ld                                                           be drying up after the
                                                                                                        the Julier to Tiefen
            steamy at                                                                                  Ragatz
Ikasten, and                                  wahnedrestewaemystaayfteedrwaardwse--ek.but               earlier

was hot and
in the season, should think, it would be pleasant.

      Last Monday we migrated here, and have had the vilest weather

until to-day. All yesterday it rained cats and dogs.

     IfTo-day we are off to Neuhausen (Schweitzerhof) to have a look
at the Rhine falls.    it is pleasant we may stop there a few days.

Then   we go to    Stuttgart,  on   our       thweay"           to Nuremberg, which                    neither
of us  have seen.    We shall   be   at                         Bavarian Hotel," and                   a letter
Iwill catch us there, if you have anything to say, daresay up to the

middle of the month. After that Frankfort, and then home.

      We do not find long railway journeys very good for either of us,

Iand am trying to keep within six hours at a stretch.
    I Iam not so vigorous as was at Maloja, but still infinitely better
than when I left England.
     I hope the mosquitoes left something of you in Venice. When
I was there in October there were none !
     My wife joins with me in love to Mrs. Foster and yourself. --
                                                                                                       T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

     Some friendly chaff in Sir M. Foster's reply to the latter
contains at least a real indication of the way in which Huxley

became the centre of the little society at the Maloja :--

    IYou may reflect that you have done the English tourists a good

service this summer. At most tatle d'hdtes in the Lakes over

heard   people  talking about the    joys of                    Mwaitlohja",                           and giving themselves
great  airs on  account of their    intimacy                                                           Professor Huxley " ! !

1888

      But indeed he made several friends here, notably one in

an unexpected quarter. This was Father Steffens, Professor

of Palaeography in Freiburg University, resident Catholic

priest at Maloja in the summer, with whom he had many

discussions, and whose real knowledge of the critical questions

confronting Christian theology he used to contrast with the

frequent ignorance and occasional rudeness of the English

representatives of that science who came to the hotel.
     A
        letter to  :--Mr.  Spencer  from  Ragatz     shows       him  on   his
return  journey

    In fact, so long as I was taking rather sharp exercise in sunshine
I felt quite well, and I could walk as well as any time these ten
years. It needed damp cold weather to remind me that my pumping

apparatus was not to be depended upon under unfavourable con

ditions. Four thousand feet descent has impressed that fact still

more forcibly upon me, and I am quite at sea as to what it will be

best to do when we return.         Quite certainly,  however, we shall not
                                    the place, but   the air is too soft and
go to Bournemouth. I like
moist for either of us.
     I should be very glad if we could be within reach of you and
help to cheer you up, but I cannot say anything definite at present

about our winter doings. . . .

My wife sends her kindest regards. She is much better than
when we left, which is lucky for me, as I have no mind, and could not
make it up if I                    only vigour I
                 had  any. The     -- Ever yours,    have is in  my legs,  and
that only when   the  sun shines.
                                                          T. H.  Huxley.

     A curious incident on this journey deserves recording, as

an instance of a futile " warning." On the night of October

6-7, Huxley woke in the night and seemed to hear an inward
voice say, " Don't go to Stuttgart and Nuremberg ; go
straight home." All he did was to make a note of the
occurrence and carry out his original plan, whereupon

nothing happened.
      The following to his youngest daughter, who had gone

back earlier from the Maloja, refers to her success in winning
the prize for modelling at the Slade School of Art.

                                          SCHWeITZeRHOF, NeUHAUseN,
                                                           Oct. 7, 1888.

    Dearest Babs -- I will sit to you     like " Pater on a monument
                                          IAs to the photographs,
smiling at grief" for the medallion.                                       will

2o6         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 CHAP. XIII

try to get them done to order either at Stuttgart or Nuremberg, if

Iwe stay at either place long enough. But am inclined to think

they had better be done at home, and then you could adjust the

length of the caoutchouc visage to suit your artistic convenience.

      We have been crowing and flapping our wings over the medal

and trimmings. The only thing I lament is that "your father's

influence" was not brought to bear; there is no telling what you

might have got if it had been. Thoughtless -- very ! !

     So sorry we did not come here instead of stopping at Ragatz.

The falls are really fine, and the surrounding country a wide table

land, with the great snowy peaks of the Oberland on the horizon.

Last evening we had a brilliant sunset, and the mountains were

lighted up with the most delicate rosy blush you can imagine.
     To-day it rains cats and dogs again. You will have seen in the

papers that the Rhine and the Aar and the Rhone and the Arve are

all in flood. There is more water here in the falls than there has

been these ten years. However, we have got to go, as the hotel

shuts up to-morrow, and there seems a good chance of reaching

Stuttgart without water in the carriage.

     Long railway journeys do not seem to suit either of us, and we

have fixed the maximum at six hours. I expect we shall be home

sometime    in the third week of this month.  may  be  at            home. --Ever
      Love  to Hal and anybody else who

your                                                                 Pater.

                                              4 Marlborough Place,

                                                       Oct. 20, 1888.

     My dear Foster--We got back on Thursday, and had a very

g"oLoodrdpasWsaagred,enan"d  took  it easy  by staying the night at  Dover.   The
                             gave  us the   worst dinner we have     had for  four
Imonths, at double the price of the good dinners.
                                                          wonder why we

cannot manage these things better in England.

      We are both very glad to be at home again, and trust we may be

allowed to enjoy our own house for a while. But, oh dear, the air

is not Malojal ! not even at Hampstead, whither I walked yesterday,

and the pump labours accordingly.

    I found the first part of the fifth edition of the Text-book among

the two or three cwt. of letters and books which had accumulated

during four months. Gratulire !
       the way, S. K. has sent me some inquiry
    IBy                                            about   Examinations,
          treat with contempt, as doubtless you    have
which                                                      a duplicate. --
                                                   T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

      On October 25 he announces his          return   to Sir Joseph
Hooker, and laments his loss of vigour        at the
                                                       sea-level : --

iS88 BOTANY AT MALOJA                                      207

    Hames won't let me stay here in November, and I think we
Ishall go to Brighton. Unless on the flat of my back, in bed, shall

not have been at home a month all this year.

    I have been utterly idle. There was a lovely case of hybridism,
IGentiana lutea and G. punctata, in a little island in the lake of Sils ;
but fell ill and was confined to bed just after I found it out. It
would be very interesting if somebody would work out Distribution

five miles round the Maloja as a centre. There are the most curious

local differences.

    IYou asked me to send you a copy of my obituary of Darwin.

So put one herewith, though no doubt you have seen it in
Proc. R. S.

    I should like to know what you think of xvii-xxii. If ever I am
Iable to do anything again will enlarge on these heads.

      In these pages of the Obituary  Notice  (Proc. Roy.  Soc.

XLIV., No. 269) he endeavours

to separate the substance of the theory from its accidents, and to
show that a variety, not only of hostile comments, but of friendly

would-be improvements lose their raison d'etre to the careful

student. . . .

     It is not essential to Darwin's theory that anything more should
be assumed than the facts of heredity, variation, and unlimited

multiplication ; and the validity of the deductive reasoning as to

the effect of the last (that  of the struggle for existence which
it
                           is
                            it

                                                        is,

                                                                                   it
                                                                                                  is

                                                                                                          it
involves) upon the varieties resulting from the operation of the
former. Nor  essential that one should take up any particular

position in regard to the mode of variation, whether, for example,

takes place per saltum or gradually; whether  definite in

character or indefinite. Still less are those who accept the theory
bound to any particular views as to the causes of heredity or of

variation.

      The remaining letters of the year trace the gradual
bettering of health, from the " no improvement " of October
to the almost complete disappearance of bad symptoms in
December. He had renounced Brighton, which he detested,
in favour of Eastbourne, where the keen air of the downs

and the daily walk over Beachy Head acted as a tolerable
substitute for the Alps. Though he would not miss the
anniversary meeting of the Royal Society, when he was
to receive the Copley medal, one more link binding him
to his old friend Hooker, he did not venture to stay for the

dinner in the evening.

208

      This autumn also he resigned his place on the board of
Governors of Eton College. " I think it must be a year
Iand a half," he writes, " since
                                                              attended a meeting, and

I am not likely to do better in the future."

                                                              4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                        Oct. 28, 1888.

     My   dear           "Hthoaot keberf--oreBesytouthadnekcsideforonyouBrrigsuhgtogenstioMnrs.aboHuutxltehye

cottage,  viz.

Ishould come down and look at the cottage below my house" at
Sunningdale, but         do not see my way to adopting it. A house,

however small, involves servants and ties one to one place. The

Iconditions that suit me do not seem to be found anywhere but in
the high Alps, and           can't afford to keep a second house in the

country and pass the summer in Switzerland as well.

     We are going to Brighton (not because we love
                                               is                                     quite t'other)
                                                                            it,
on account of the fine weather that to be had there in November

and   December. We shall be            back    --forMsaolmveernweepkosssaibbloyu--t Cohutrisotfmtahse,
and   then get away somewhere            else

east winds of February and March.

        do not like this nomadic life at all, but                                   appears to be
    ; II                                                              It
Hobson's choice between that and none.
          it                                                                   it

           I                                                                  iIf
                                                                                     I
        am sorry to hear you are troubled by your ears.                                                am so

deaf that begin to fight shy of society.                              irritates me not to

hear      irritates me still more to be spoken to as                                  were deaf,

and the absurdity of being irritated on the last ground irritates me

still more.

        wish you would start that business of giving                                  competent
     I                                                                         a
                                                                                   is
young     Ebontgaandisitnew--ithfrogmoodtheleMgsalo£j1a 0a0s
in the                                                                                  a
                                                                                                    a
                                                              to go   --anind  study distribution
                                                              centre            circle of radius

of eight or ten miles. The distribution of the four principal coni

fers, Arolla, pine larch, mountain pine and spruce,                                   most curious,

the why and wherefore nowise apparent.
                                           at x
         am very sorry       cannot    be  Ever  on Thursday, but                     they won't       let
      be out at night        present.                                                  Huxley.
    I                                  --

                        I

me                       at                                   yours,           T. H.

                                                                      Marlborough Place,
                                                              is
                                                                      4Oct. 28, 1888.

                                                                                it
      My dear Foster--No fear of my trying to stop in London.
Hames won't have it. He came and overhauled me the other day.
As expected, the original mischief just as
     I                                                                              was. One does

                     is
not get rid either of dilatation or its results at my time of life. The

only thing to keep the pipes clear by good conditions of existence.
      After endless discussion we have settled on Brighton for

1888 THE 'CASKET LETTERS'                                                  209

November and December. It is a hateful place to my mind, but

there is more chance of sunshine there (at this time) than anywhere
else. We shall come up for a week or two on this side of Christ

mas, and then get away somewhere else out of the way of the east

winds of February and March.

    I do not think that the Hazlemere country would do for us,

nor indeed any country place so long as we cannot regularly set

Iup house.
      Heaven knows don't want to bother about anything at present.
But I should like to convince
                                       that he does not yet under

stand the elements      of  i[shi!s--  subject]. What  a copious inkspilling
cuttlefish of a writer  he             Ever yours,       T. H. Huxley.

                               4 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.,

                                                        Nov. 2, 1888.

My dear Skelton -- Best thanks for the second volume of
                               I have been in

                            to repair the crazy
Maitland of Lethington.                                               for the
                                                                      live in,"
Ilast four months, trying
                                                       the  Engadine
                                                       old  " home
Iand meeting with more success than hoped for when I left home.
     Your volume turned up amidst a mountain of accumulated

Ibooks, papers, and letters, and can only hope it has not been too

Ilong without acknowledgment.

          have been much interested in your argument about the
"Casket letters." The comparison of Crawford's deposition with
Ithe Queen's letter leaves no sort of doubt that the writer of one had
the other before him ; and under the circumstances          do not see

how it can be doubted that the Queen's letter is forged.                   can

    IBut though thus wholly agreeing with you in substance,

not help thinking that your language on p. 341 may be seriously

pecked at.

     My experience of reporters leads me to think that there would

be no discrepancy at all comparable to that between the two

accounts, and I speak from the woeful memories of the many Royal
ICommissions have wearied over. The accuracy of a good modern

reporter is really wonderful.
IAnd do not think that "the two documents were drawn by
Ithe same hand."        should say that the writer of the letter had

Crawford's deposition before him, and made what he considered

improvements here and there.

     You will say this letter is like FalstafFs reckoning, with but a

pennyworth of thanks to this monstrous quantity of pecking.

But the gratitude is solid and the criticism mere two dimension
stuff. It is a charming book.
With kind remembrances to Mrs. Skelton -- Ever yours very
                                                            T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,
VOL. II
                                                                      P

210     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                              chap, xm

                               10 SOUTHClIFF TeRRACe, EAsTBOURNe,
                                                    Nov. 9, 1888.

     My dear Foster -- We came here on Tuesday, on which day,

by ill luck, the east wind also started, and has been blowing half

a gale ever since.  We are     in  --theloolaksint g  house    but one    to  the west,
and as high up as   we dare    go                       out  on the sea.
                                                                              The first

day we had to hold on to our chairs to prevent being blown away

in the sitting-room, but we have hired a screen and can now croon

over the fire without danger.

     A priori, the conditions cannot be said to have been promising

Ifor two people, one of whom is liable to bronchitis and rheumatism

and the other to pleurisy, but, as am so fond of rubbing into

Herbert Spencer, a priori reasonings are mostly bosh, and we are

Ithriving.                     find the air on Beachy Head eminently
      With three coats on

refreshing, and there is so much light in the southern quarter just

now, that we confidently hope to see the sun once more in the

course of a few days.
     I IAs told you in my official letter,
                                                      am going up for the 30th.
IBut am in a quandary about the dinner, partly by reason of the
Iinevitable speech, and partly the long sitting.
like to attend, and I think I could go through with          should very much

                                                             On the other
        I
            is
                    I it

                               I
                                     I

                                                                                       it.

                                                         I
hand, my wife declares         would be very imprudent, and am not

quite sure she wrong.          wish you would tell me exactly what

you think about the matter.

     The way pick up directly get into good air makes me

suspect myself of   malingering,     a--ndEvyeert          certainly had grown very
seedy in London     before we left.
                                                      yours, T. H. Huxley.

                               10 Southcliff Terrace, Eastbourne,

                                                      Nov. 13, 1888.

     My dear Foster--We are very sorry to hear about Michael

Junior.* Experto crede of all anxieties the hardest to bear                   I is          that
     1
about one's children. But considering the way you got off yourself
           I is
                           I;
and have become the hearty and bucolic person you are, think

you ought to be cheery. Everybody speaks well of the youngster,

and he  bound to behave himself well and get strong as swiftly

as possible.                                          I      But unless       is I          am on
      Though very loth, give up the dinner.                  think that                       com
                                                                                   a
my back shall turn up at the meeting.

promise very creditable to my prudence.

        Sir M. Foster's son was threatened with lung trouble, and was ordered to live
abroad. He proposed to carry his medical experience to the Maloja and practise
there during the summer. Huxley offered to give him some introductions.

i88S RECEIVES THE COPLEY MEDAL                                                    21 I

Though it is blowing a gale of wind from S.W. to-day there is
                            Bfraiigrlhytowna. r--m.EveIr
real sunshine,   and it is                                am very glad we came    here
instead of that   beastly                                 yours very faithfully,
                                                            T. H. Huxley.

                            IO SOUTHClIFF TeRRACe, EAsTBOURNe,

                                                          Nov. 15, 1888.

My dear Evans -- I am very sorry to have missed you. I told
my doctor that while the weather was bad it was of no use to go

away, and when it was fine I might just as well stop at home ; but
he did not see the force of my reasoning, and packed us off here.
IThe award of the Copley is a kindness I feel very much. . . .
The Congress 1 seems to have gone off excellently.                        consider

that my own performance of the part of dummy was            d"istLinagwueissheDde. o,"
       So the Lawes business is fairly settled at last !

as the Claimant might have said. But the pun will be stale, as you

doubtless have already made all possible epigrams and punnigrams

on the topic.

      My wife joins with me in kindest regards to Mrs. Evans and

yourself. If Mrs. Evans had only come up to the Maloja, she would
have had real winter and no cold. -- Ever yours very faithfully,

                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

                            10 Southcliff Terrace, Eastbourne,

                                                    Nov. 15, 1888.

My dear Hooker-- You would have it that the R.S. broke the

law in giving you the Copley, and they certainly violated custom
in giving it to me the year following. Who ever heard of two
biologers getting it one after another ? It is very pleasant to have
                                                             It is getting on for
our niches   in the  wPeanwtheereonfircsltose"   together.
forty years  since                              acquent,"   and considering with

what a very considerable dose of tenacity, vivacity, and that glorious

firmness (which the beasts who don't like us call obstinacy) we are
both endowed, the fact that we have never had the shadow of a

shade of a quarrel is more to our credit than being ex-Presidents

and Copley medallists.

But we have had a masonic bond in both being well salted in
I Iearly life.
               have always felt owed a great deal to my acquaint

Iance with the realities of things gained [in] the old Rattlesnake.
          am getting on pretty well here, though the weather has been
Imostly bad. All being well I shall attend the meeting of the
Society on the 30th, but not the dinner.                    am very sorry to miss
Ithe latter, but dare not face the fatigue and the chances of a third

dose of pleurisy.

1 The International Geological Congress, at which he was to have presided.

212                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                      CHAP. XIII

tionsM. --y  wife  sends  kindest regards   and     thanks    for your congratula
             Ever  yours  very faithfully,                    T. H. Huxley.

                                 10 SOUTHClIFF TeRRACe, EAsTBOURNe,
                                                         Nov. 17, 1888.

     My dear Flower -- . . . Many thanks for taking my trouble

someness     in good      part.     My  mfarinend"   will be   greatly consoled to
know that    you have     the    poor               in your   eye." Schoolmaster,

Inaturalist, and coal merchant used to be the three refuges for the

incompetent. Schoolmaster is rapidly being eliminated, so sup

pose the pressure on Natural History and coals will increase.
     I am glad you have got the Civil Service Commissioners to
Ilisten to common sense.
                                 had an awful battle with them (through

the Department) over Newton, who is now in your paleontological
If Idepartment.
                          recollect rightly, they examined him inter alia on

the working of the Poor Laws !

     IThe Royal Society has dealt very kindly with me. They patted
me on the back when              started thirty-seven years ago, and it was

a great encouragement. They give me their best, now that my
                                                    At the far end of life all
race is run, and it is a great consolation.

one's work looks so uncommonly small, that the good opinion of

Ione's contemporaries acquires a new value.
      We     have a summer's day, and am writing before          an open
window                                                           faithfully,
             ! Yesterday it blew great guns. -- Ever yours very
                                                              T. H. Huxley.

     The following letter to Lady Welby, the point of which
is that to be " morally convinced " is not the same thing as
to offer scientific proof, refers to an article in the Church
Quarterly for October called " Truthfulness in Science and
Religion," evoked by Huxley's Nineteenth Century article on
" Science and the Bishops."

                                                              Nov. 27, 1888.

    Dear Lady Welby -- Many                 thanks for        the article in the
                                             herewith.
Church Quarterly, which I return                              I am not disposed

to bestow any particular attention upon it ; as the writer, though

evidently a fair-minded man, appears to me to be entangled in a

Ifhopeless intellectual muddle, and one which has no novelty.
Christian beliefs profess to be based upon historical facts.     there

was no such person as Jesus of Nazareth, and if His biography

given in the Gospels is a fiction, Christianity vanishes.

     Now the inquiry into the truth or falsehood of a matter of

history is just as much a question of pure science as the inquiry
into the truth or falsehood of a matter of geology, and the value of

1888 ' TRUTHFULNESS IN SCIENCE AND RELIGION' 213

Ifevidence in the two cases must be tested in the same way.                    any

one tells me that the evidence of the existence of man in the mio

Icene epoch is as good as that upon which I frequently act every

day of my life, reply that this is quite true, but that it is no sort

of reason for believing in the existence of miocene man.

Surely no one but a born fool can fail to be aware that we

constantly, and in very grave conjunctions, are obliged to act upon

extremely bad evidence, and that very often we suffer all sorts of

penalties in consequence. And surely one must be something

worse than a born fool to pretend that such decision under the

pressure of the enigmas of life ought to have the smallest influence

in those judgments which are made with due and sufficient delibera

I Ition. You will see that these considerations go to the root of the
whole matter.  regret that cannot discuss the question more at

length and deal with sundry topics put forward in your letter. At

present writing is a burden to me.

     A letter to Professor Ray Lankester mixes grave and

gay in a little homily, edged by personal experience, on the
virtues and vices of combativeness.

                                          10 Southcliff, Eastbourne,

                                                        Dec. 6, 1888.

    I think it would be a very good thing both for you and for

Oxford if you went there. Oxford science certainly wants stirring
up, and notwithstanding your increase in years and wisdom, I think

you would bear just a little more stoning 1 down, so that the con

ditions for a transfer of energy are excellent !

    Seriously, I wish you would let an old man, who has had his

share of fighting, remind you that battles, like hypotheses, are not

to be multiplied beyond necessity.        Science might   say  tfoair,yo"u        as
the Staffordshire collier's wife said to  her husband at  the
                                                                               Get

thee foighten done and come whoam." You have a fair expectation

of ripe vigour for twenty years ; just think what may be done with

that capital.                 aUnnddedrutyth. e--cEirvceurmsytoaunrcsesveroyf  the time,
                                                                               faithfully,
     No use to tu quoque me.              T. H. Huxley.

warfare has been my business

     Two more letters of the year refer to the South Kensing
ton examinations, for which Huxley was still nominally
responsible. As before, we see him reluctant to sign the
report upon papers which he had not himself examined ; yet

                      1 i.e. "holystoning," as the decks of a man-of-war.

214          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                               chap, xiii

at the same time doing all that lay in his power to assist
by criticising the questions and thinking out the scheme of
teaching on which the examination was to be based. He

replies to some proposed changes in a letter to Sir M. Foster
of December --1 2 :.

    I am very sorry I cannot agree with your clients about the

examination. They should recollect the late Master of Trinity's

aphorism that even the youngest of us is not infallible.
     I know exactly upon what principles I am going, and so far
Ias
ITwo         paremseqnut iteinfcolremaredabothuatt--adovnaentisagtehe  is peculiar to my side.
     am at                                                             exclusion of Amphioxus,
     points
and the other the retention of so much of the Bird as will necessitate

a knowledge of Sauropsidan skeletal characters and the elements of

skeletal homologies in skull and limbs.
I--
        have taken a  g--ooadnddemalakoifngparionos movfeorr  drawing up a new syllabus
   including dogfish                                          it by excluding Amphioxus
Iand all of bird except skeleton.
                                                  have added Lamprey (cranial
and spinal skeleton, not face cartilages), so that the intelligent student

may know what a notochord means before he goes to embryology.
I have excluded Distoma and kept Helix.
     IThe Committee must now settle the matter.
                                                                           have done with

     it.

     On December 27 he writes :--

     I have been thinking over the Examinership business without

I Icoming to any very satisfactory result. The present state of things
is not satisfactory so far as am concerned.                            do not like to appear
to be doing what I am not doing.
          would of course be the successor indicated, if he had not

so carefully cut his own throat as an Examiner. . . . He would be

...bringing an action against the Lord President before he had been
three years in office !                      As I told Forster, when he was Vice-
President, the whole value of the Exr. system depends on the way

the examiners do their work. I have the gravest doubt about
Isteadily plodding through the disgustful weariness of it as you and

have done, or observing any regulation that did not suit his fancy.

     With this may be compared the letter of May 19, 1889,

"tosleSeirpiJn.gDpoanrntneellyrs,hiwph"enin  he   finally resolved         to give up the
                                             the   examination.

     His last letter of the year                  was written          to  Sir  J.  Hooker,
when transferring to him the                      " archives "                  x   Club, as
                                                                       of  the

the new Treasurer.

iSSS RECOVERY                                                                      215

                                                          4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                   Dec. 29, 1888.

My dear Hooker -- All good wishes to you and yours, and

many of 'em.

      Thanks for the cheque.  IYou            are very confiding to      send it with
out looking at the account.                     have packed up the        " Archives,"
                              But

which poor dear Busk handed over to me, and will leave them at the

Athenaeum for you. Among them you will find the account book.

IThere are two or three cases, when was absent, in which the names
are not down. I have no doubt Frankland gave them to me by

letter, but the book was at home and they never got set down.

Peccavi!

    I have been picking up in the most astonishing way during the

last fortnight or three weeks at Eastbourne. My doctor, Hames,

carefully examined my heart yesterday, and told me that though

some slight indications were left, he should have thought nothing of
them if he had not followed the whole history of the case. With

Ifresh air and exercise and careful avoidance of cold and night air

am to be all right again in a few months.
    I am
           not   fond   of  bceocdaudslieng"  ; but   as  Paddy gave     "h--is  pig the best
corner in  his  cabin                         shure,  he  paid the rint
                       --                                                        I feel bound

to take care of myself as a household animal of value, to say nothing

Iof any other grounds. So, much as should like to be with you all
Ion the 3rd, must defer to the taboo.
     The wife got a nasty bronchitic cold as soon as she came up.

She is much better now. But I shall be glad to get her down to

IEastbourne again.                                        hope you are. -- Ever
                                                          T. H. Huxley.
      Except that, we are all very flourishing, as

yours very faithfully,

                CHAPTER XIV

                                 1889

The events to be chronicled in this year are, as might be

expected, either domestic or literary. The letters are full
of allusions to his long controversy in defence of Agnosticism,

mainly with Dr. Wace, who had declared the use of the
name to be a " mere evasion " on the part of those who

ought to be dubbed infidels ; to the building of the new

house at Eastbourne, and to the marriage in quick succession
of his two youngest daughters, whereby, indeed, the giving up
of the house in London and definite departure from London

was made possible.

    All the early part of the year, till he found it necessary

to go to Switzerland again, he stayed unwillingly in East

bourne, from time to time running up to town, or having

son or daughter to stay with him for a week, his wife being

too busy to leave town, with the double preparations for the
                                                     b: e"--I foferel
weddings on hand, so that he writes to    her                            worse
                                          to                           leaving
than the ' cowardly agnostic ' I am said

you to face your botherations alone." One can picture
him still firm of tread, with grizzled head a little stooped

from his square shoulders, pacing the sea wall with long

strides, or renewing somewhat of his strength as it again

began to fail, in the keener air of the downs, warmly de
                                      cap -- for he
fended against  chill  --byanad  big                  had   been suffer
ing from his    ears              a   long rough     coat.
"I(February 22):                                              He writes

                       have bought a cap with flaps to pro
tect my ears. I look more ' doggy ' than ever." And on
March 3 :--

1889 MARRIAGE OF HIS YOUNGEST DAUGHTER                                       217

      We have had a lovely day, quite an Italian sky and sea, with a

good deal of Florentine east wind. I walked up to the Signal House,

and was greatly amused by a young sheep-dog whose master could
hardly get him away from circling round me and staring at me with

a short dissatisfied bark every now and then. It is the undressed

wool of my coat bothers all the dogs. They can't understand why

Ia creature which smells so like a sheep should walk on its hind legs.

I wish could have relieved that dog's mind, but I did not see my

way to an explanation.

       From this time on, the effects of several years' com

parative rest became more perceptible. His slowly return

ing vigour was no longer sapped by the unceasing strain of
                           And if his recurrent ill-health
multifarious occupations.

sometimes seems too strongly insisted on, it must be re

omfemhbiserepdowtehrsat--hethehadlimailtw, ayass   worked at the extreme    limit
                                                    he used regretfully to
imposed on his brain by his                                                  say,
                                                  other organs -- and that  after

his first breakdown he was never very far from a second.

When this finally came in 1 8 84, his forces were so far spent

that he never expected to recover as he did.

       In the marriage this year of his youngest daughter,

Huxley was doomed to experience the momentary little

twinge which will sometimes come to the supporter of an

unpopular principle when he first puts it into practice among

his own belongings.

                                                            Athen.*um Club,

                                                            Jan. 14, 1889.

My dear Hooker --I have                           left the x " Archives " here for
I Iyou.
       left them on my table by mischance when came here on

the x day.
I have a piece of family news for you. My youngest daughter

Ethel is going to marry John Collier.
    I have always  been a  g"reDaetceaadsveodcateWiffeo'rs  the triumph of common
                   in the
sense and justice                                            Sister " business -- and
Ionly now discover, that had a sneaking hope that all of my own

Idaughters would escape that experiment 1                   would not wish a

      They are quite suited to one another and
Ibetter match for her. And whatever annoyances and social pin

-pricks may come in Ethel's way, know nobody less likely to care

Iabout them.                                      believe, to get the business
      We shall have to go to Norway,

done.

2lS                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, x1v

     In the meantime, my wife (who has been laid up with bronchitic

cold ever since we came home) and I have had as much London

as we can stand, and are off to-morrow to Eastbourne again, but to

more sheltered quarters.
    I
        hope  Lady Hooker and         you are thriving.      meDoonf 'tdocinogn.ce--al    the
news    from  her, as my wife is      always accusing         T. H. Huxley.             Ever

yours,

                        To Mr. W. F. Collier

                                                        4 Marlborough Place,
                                                               Jan. 24, 1889.

     Many thanks for your kind letter. I have as strong an affection
          as if he were my own              anhdimI--habvye
for Jack                              son,                    felt      very keenly the
ruin we   involuntarily brought       upon                    our        poor darling's
terrible illness and death. So that if I had not already done my best

to aid and abet other people in disregarding the disabilities imposed
by the present monstrous state of the law, I should have felt bound
...Ito go as far as could towards mending his life. Ethel is just
suited to him.          Of course I could have wished that she should

be spared the petty annoyances which she must occasionally expect.
IBut know of no one less likely
                                      to care for them.       am        afraid      it must
     Your Shakespere parable 1 is                                                   " divine
                                      charming-- but I

Wbeillpiaumt sam"onasg    the endless things that are   read  in        to  the
                        the Frenchman called him.

     There was no knowledge of the sexes of plants in Shakespere's

time, barring some vague suggestion about figs and dates. Even in

the 1 8th century, after Linnaeus, the observations of Sprengel, who
was a man of genius, and first properly explained the action of insects,

were set aside and forgotten.
    I take
                  it that Shakespere   is really alluding to the "enforced
chastity " of     Dian (the moon).    The poets ignore that little Endymion

I Ibusiness when they like !                                                            can

         have recovered in such an extraordinary fashion that
plume myself on being an " interesting case," though I am not going
to compete with you in that line. And if you look at the February

INineteenth hope you will think that my brains are none the worse.

But perhaps that conceited speech is evidence that they are.

     We came to town to make the acquaintance of Nettie's fiance,

     1 The second part of the latter replies to the question whether Shakespeare

had any notion of the existence of the sexes in plants and the part played in their

fertilisation by  insects, which,  of course, would be  prevented from  --visiting  them by
rainy weather,    when he wrote     in the Midsummer    Night's Dream

                        The moon, methinks, looks with a watery eye,
                        And when she weeps, weeps every little flower,
                        Lamenting some enforced chastity.

1889 DECEASED WIFE'S SISTER BILL  -'9

and I am happy to say the family takes to him. When it does not

take to anybody, it is the worse for that anybody.

    ISo, before long, my house will be empty, and as my wife and I

cannot live in London, think we shall pitch our tent in Eastbourne.
Good Jack offers to give us a pied a terre when we come to town.
To-day we are off to Eastbourne again. Carry off Harry, who is
done up from too zealous Hospital work. However, it is nothing

serious.

     The following is in reply to a request that he would
write a letter, as he describes it elsewhere, " about the wife's

sister business -- for the edification of the peers."

                                                  3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                                         March 12, 1889.

    IMy dear Donnelly -- feel "downright mean," as the Yankees
Isay, that have not done for the sake of right and justice what I am
Imoved to do now that I have a personal interest in the matter of

the directest kind ; and rather expect that will be thrown in my

Iteeth if my name is at the bottom of anything write.
    IOn the other hand, loathe anonymity. However, we can take

time to consider that point.

    Anyhow I will set to work on the concoction of a letter, if you

will supply me with the materials which will enable me to be
thoroughly posted up in the facts.

over I yheasvteerdjauyst--reict ewivaesd veyroyurfinsee.c--ondEvleertteyro. ursPivtyeryyofuaitchofuulldly,not stay

                                                                      T. H. Huxley.

    The letter in question is as follows :--

                                                                                  April 30, 1889.

    Dear Lord Hartington -- I am assured by those who know

more about the political world than I do, that if Lord Salisbury would
hold his hand and let his party do as they like about the D.W.S. Bill

which is to come on next week, it would pass. Considering the
irritation against the bishops and a certain portion of the lay peers
among a number of people who have the means of making them
selves heard and felt, which is kept up and aggravated, as time goes
on, by the action of the Upper House in repeatedly snubbing the

Lower, about this question, I should have thought it (from a Con

servative point of view) good policy to heal the sore.
      The talk of Class v. Mass is generally mere clap-trap ; but, in

this case, there is really no doubt that a fraction of the Classes
stands in the way of the fulfilment of a very reasonable demand on
the part of the Masses.

220       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                 CHAP. XIV

     A clear-headed man like Lord Salisbury would surely see this if

it were properly pressed on his attention.

    I do not presume to say whether it is practicable or convenient

for the Leader of the Liberal Unionist party to take any steps in

Ithis direction ; and should hardly have ventured to ask you to
Itake this suggestion into consideration if the interest have always
                      Bill had not

                      my daughters
taken in

Imarriage
          the D.W.S.                recently been  quickened by      the
          of one of                 as a Deceased   Wife's Sister.
                                                                    --

am, etc.

     Meantime the effect of Eastbourne, which Sir John
Donnelly had induced him to try, was indeed wonderful.

He found in it the place he had so long been looking for.

References to his health read very differently from those of

previous years. He walked up Beachy Head regularly

without suffering from any heart symptoms. And though

Beachy Head was not the same thing as the Alps, it made

a very efficient substitute for a while, and it was not till

April that the need of change began to make itself felt.

And so he made up his mind to listen no more to the eager

friends who wished him to pitch his tent near them at either

end of Surrey, but to settle down at Eastbourne, and, by

preference, to build a house of the size and on the spot that

suited himself, rather than to take any existing house lower

down in the town.        He  must have been a trifle irritated      by
unsolicited advice    when
                             he wrote the following :--

     It is very odd that people won't give one credit for common
sense. We have tried one winter here, and if we tried another we

I Ishould be just as much dependent upon the experience of longer

residents as ever we were. However, as told X. was going to

Ifsettle matters to-morrow, there won't be any opportunity for discuss
ing that topic when he comes.       we had taken W.'s house, some

body would have immediately told us that we had chosen the dampest

site in winter and the stuffiest in summer, and where, moreover, the

sewage has to be pumped up into the main drain.

      He finally decided upon a site on the high ground near

Beachy Head, a little way back from the sea front, at the

corner of the Staveley and Buxton Roads, with a guarantee
from the Duke of Devonshire's agent that no house should
be built at the contiguous end of the adjoining plot of land
in the Buxton Road, a plot which he himself afterwards
bought. The principal rooms were planned for the back of

1889 DEFENCE OF AGNOSTICISM                                        221.

the house, looking S.W. over open gardens to the long line

of downs which culminate in Beachy Head, but with due

provision against southerly gales and excess of sunshine.

      On May 29 the builder's contract was accepted, and for
the rest of the year the progress of the house, which was

designed by his son-in-law, F. W. Waller, afforded a con

stant interest.

Meantime, with the improvement in his general health,

the old appetite for work returned with increased and
unwonted zest. For the first time in his life he declares

that he enjoyed the process of writing. As he wrote some

what later to his newly married daughter from Eastbourne,

where he had gone again very weary the day after her
wedding : " Luckily the bishops and clergy won't let me

alone, so I have been able to keep myself pretty well amused

in replying." The work which came to him so easily and

pleasurably was the defence of his attitude of agnosticism

against the onslaught made upon it at the previous Church

Congress by Dr. Wace, the Principal of King's College,

London, and followed up by articles in the Nineteenth

Century from the pen of Mr. Frederic Harrison and Mr.

Laing, the effect of which  upon      --him  he  describes  to Mr.
Knowles on December 30,     1888:

    I have been stirred up to the boiling pitch by Wace, Laing, and
Harrison in re Agnosticism, and I really can't keep the lid down

any longer. Are you minded to admit a goring article into the

February Nineteenth ?

    As for his health, --he adds :

    I have amended    wonderfully in the  course of the  last six  weuepk--s,
                                          be completely  patched
and my doctor tells  me I am going to

seams caulked and made seaworthy, so the old hulk may make

another cruise.                     have been able and willing to
                                      can say for myself for the first
    IWe shall see. At any rate
Iwrite lately, and that is more than

...three-quarters of the year.
          I was so pleased to see you were in trouble about your

house. Good for you to have a taste of it for yourself.

     To this controversy he contributed four articles ; three
directly in defence of Agnosticism, the fourth on the value

of the underlying question of testimony to the miraculous.

222   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY              chap, xiv

      The first article, " Agnosticism," appeared in the Feb

ruary number of the Nineteenth Century. No sooner was

this finished than he began a fresh piece of work, "which,"
he writes, " is all about miracles, and will be rather amusing."
This, on the " Value of Testimony to the Miraculous,"

appeared in the following number of the Nineteenth Century.
It did not form part of the controversy on hand, though

it bore indirectly upon the first principles of agnosticism.

The question at issue, he urges, is not the possibility of
miracles, but the evidence to their occurrence, and if from

preconceptions or ignorance the evidence be worthless the

historical reality of the facts attested vanishes. The cardinal
point, then, " is completely, as the author of Robert Elsmere

says, the value of testimony."

     The March number also contained replies from Dr. Wace

and Bishop Magee on the main question, and an article by
                                            to his own, "
Mrs.  Humphry Ward   on a kindred subject   February 27    The
New   Reformation."
                     Of these he writes on                 :--

     The Bishop and Wace are hammering away in the Nineteenth.

IMrs. Ward's article very good, and practically an answer to Wace.

Won't stir them up by and by!

    And a few days later :--

      Mrs. Ward's service consists in her very clear and clever exposi
tion of critical results and methods.

                            3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,

                                                   Feb. 29, 1889.

     My dear Knowles --I have just been delighted with Mrs.

Ward's article. She has swept away the greater part of Wace's

sophistries as a dexterous and strong-wristed housemaid sweeps away
cobwebs with her broom, and saved a lot of time.

    IWhat in the world does the Bishop mean by saying that have
called Christianity "sorry stuff" (p. 370)? To my knowledge I

never so much as thought anything of the kind, let alone saying
I

                                            a

                                    I
                                                                        by

                                                 I
                                                                                            if,
                                                        I
                                                                                                                 it.
      shall challenge him very sharply about this, and as believe,

he has no justification for his statement, my opinion of him will be

very considerably lowered.

     Wace has given me lovely opening  his profession of belief

in the devils going into the swine.  rather hoped should get this
out of him.

1889 DEFENCE OF AGNOSTICISM                                                                                                                                                                          223

I IsRheofouArldmfftienarbdtieoapnllep,oo"ptshlseeibsahlreraeelpl frwootrhaaticncmhkheinmthgtaeodthefaeggivtgoeeanmtdaheeowlfitEittmnlhegy lgislrsiehfheaotvpweeineotlpeltloresepsettt,hnheta.atn"d"   if it
                                                                                                                                                                                                     New

                                                                                                                                                                                                     they
care for nothing but religion and politics " is rather to their credit.
In the long run these are the two things that ought to interest a man

more than any others.

    I have been much bothered with ear-ache lately, but if all goes
well I will send you a screed by the middle of March.

      Snowing hard ! They have   had   yemarosrehersen.o--w   within the    last
month than they have known for   ten                         Ever yours   faith
                                              T. H. Huxley.
fully,

     He set to work immediately, and within ten day

despatched his second contribution, " Agnosticism, a
Rejoinder," which appeared in the April number of the

--Nineteenth Century.

      On March 3 he writes :

    I am possessed by a writing demon, and have pretty well

finished in the rough another article for Knowles, whose mouth is

wide open for it.

     And on the 9th :--

for  I sent off another article  to Knowles   last night-- a  regular facer
                                                              now for the
     the clericals. You can't    think how I  enjoy writing

first time in my life.

        He writes at greater length to Mr. Knowles :--

                                 3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                 March 10, 1889.

     My dear Knowles --There's a Divinity that shapes the ends
I(of envelopes !) rough-hew them how we will. This time went and
Ibought the strongest to be had, and sealed him up with wax in the
shop.   put no note inside, meaning to write to you afterwards,
Iand then forgot to do so.
     I can't understand Peterborough nohow. However, so far as

the weakness of the flesh would permit me to abstain from smiting

him and his brother Amalekite, I have tried to turn the tide of

battle to matters of more importance.

     The pith of my article is the proposition that Christ was not a
I ICfohrmris--tiafne.aring
        have not ventured to state            my thesis exactly  in that
                                              and proper way,      flatter
        the Editor -- but, in a mild

224                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                               chap, xiv

Imyself have demonstrated it. Really, when I come to think of

the claims made by orthodox Christianity on the one hand, and of

the total absence of foundation for them on the other, I find it hard

to abstain from using                ait phtroasethwehicRh essuhrorecckteiodn,me"  very much when
Strauss first applied                                                              Welthistorischer
Humbug ! "
    I Idon't
Iremember
             think I             --haave    ever  seen the portrait you speak of.
                                          clever   fellow, whose name, of course,
            the artist
Iforget -- but I do not think saw his finished work. Some of these
days I will ask to see it.
     I was pretty well finished after the wedding, and bolted here the
I Inext day.
            am sorry to say could not get my wife to come with
me. If she does    not knock up I shall
                                                          Ibe pleasantly surprised.                The
young couple are    flourishing in Paris.                      like what I have                seen of

him very much.     " Cloister             scheme  " P1    Recollect how far away I am
      What is the

from the world, the flesh and the d                       .

     Are you and Mrs. Knowles going to imitate the example of

Eginhard   and Emma? What                         good    pictures you             will  have  in  your
monastery                                           very  faithfully,
            church !-- Ever yours                                         T. H. Huxley.

     And again, a few days later :--

                                                  3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                                    March 15, 1889.

    My dear Knowles --I am sending my proof back to Spottis-
woode's. I did not think the MS. would make so much, and I am
afraid it has lengthened in the process of correction.

     You have a reader in your printer's office who provides me with
                                                                           MS. spoke of the pigs as
juonkwesi.llingLa"stpotritmeers  he  ocfortrheectedde, vilws,heirnetom"y  psaoyrke" rcsu."rrenAtnfdormthuisla,t"imhee,
                                 "

when I, writing about the Lord's Prayer,
has it "canting formula." If only Peterborough had got hold of
that ! And I am capable of overlooking anything in a proof.
     You see we have got to big questions now, and if these are once

fairly before the general mind all the King's horses and all the

King's   --meEnvewronyo'turpsutvetrhye     orthodox       Humpty          Dumpty where he was
before.                                   faithfully,                       T. H. Huxley.

     After the     article came                   out he                  wrote    again       to  Mr.

Knowles :--

   1 It referred to a plan for using the cloisters of Westminster Abbey to receive

the monuments of distinguished men, so as to avoid the necessity of enlarging

the Abbey itself.

1889 CITATION OF NEWMAN                                                                           225

                                                           4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                                     April 14, 1889.

    My dear Knowles -- I am going to try and stop here, desolate

as the house is now all the chicks have flown, for the next fortnight.
Your talk of the inclemency of Torquay is delightfully consoling.

London has been vile.

     I am glad you are going to let Wace have another "go." My

object, as you know, in the whole business has been to rouse people

to think. . . .

    Considering that I got named in the House of Commons last
Inight as an example of a temperate and well-behaved blasphemer,*
Ithink am attaining my object.

    Of course I go for a last word, and I am inclined to think that

whatever Wace may say, it may be                           best to get out of the region of
controversy as far as possible and                         hammer in two big nails -- (1)

that the Demonology of Christianity shows that its founders knew no

mNeowremaanb'osutdotchterinespoirfit"uaDl evweolorlpdmethnatn"  anybody     else, and       (2) that
                                                                is true to  an extent       of which

the Cardinal did not dream.

    I have been reading some of his works lately, and I understand
Inow why Kingsley accused him of growing dishonesty.
      After an hour or                    two  of him      --beEgvaenr  to lose  sight  of   the  dis
tinction between truth                    and  falsehood.               yours,

                                                                           T. H. Huxley.

      If Iyou are at home any day next week will look in for a chat.

      The controversy was completed by a third article,
" Agnosticism and Christianity," in the June number of the
Nineteenth Century. There was a humorous aspect of this

article which tickled his fancy immensely, for he drove

home his previous arguments by means of an authority

whom his adversaries could not neglect, though he was

the last man    they                      could have   --exCpaercdteindal  to see brought up
against them   in this                     connection                       Newman. There

is no better evidence for ancient than for modern miracles,

he says in effect ; let us therefore accept the teachings of

the Church which maintains a continuous tradition on the

subject. But there is a very different conclusion to be

drawn from the same premises ; all may be regarded as

said  1 "Inthethelasdtebaartteicluepobny  the Religious Prosecutions    Abolition Bill, Mr.  Addison
                                           Professor Huxley in the      Nineteenth Century    showed
that opinion was free when it was honestly expressed." -- Times, April 14.
      VOL. II
                                                                                             Q

226          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                          chap, xiv

equally doubtful, and                      so he writes       on  May 30                to Sir

J. Hooker :--

     By the way, I want you to enjoy my wind-up with Wace in this
month's Nineteenth in the reading as much as I have in the writing.

It's as full of malice * as an egg is full of meat, and my satisfaction in
making Newman my accomplice has been unutterable. That man

is the slipperiest sophist I have ever met with. Kingsley was

entirely right about him.
      Now for peace and quietness till after the next Church Con

gress !

     Three other letters to Mr. Knowles refer to this article.

                                                 4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                               May 4, 1889.

     My dear Knowles -- I am at the end of my London tether,

Iand we go to Eastbourne (3 Jevington Gardens again) on Monday.

         have been working hard to finish my paper, and shall send it
to you before I go.
     I am astonished at its meekness. Being reviled, I revile not ;
Inot an exception,
                                    believe, can be taken to the wording of one of
Ithe venomous paragraphs in which the paper abounds. And per
ceive the truth of a profound reflection I have often made, that

reviling is  often morally superior to           not reviling.    "        is  neither  straight
             up Peterborough. His "              Explanation
    I give

forward, nor courteous, nor prudent. Of which last fact, it may be,

he will be convinced when he reads my acknowledgment of his

favours, which is soft, not with the softness of the answer which

tDuernsdeethmonaaw.ay--wErvaethr ,    but  with  that of the  pillow which smothered
                                    yours  very  faithfully,        T. H. Huxley.

    I shall try to stand an hour or two of the Academy dinner, and

hope it won't knock me up.

                                                            4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                                                  May 6, 1889.

    My dear Knowles -- If I had not gone to the Academy dinner
II might have kept my promise about sending you my paper to-day.

   indulged in no gastronomic indiscretions, and came away after

H.R.H.'s speech, but I was dead beat all yesterday, nevertheless.
    We are off to Eastbourne, and I will send the MS. from there ;

there is very little to do.

                                    i.e. in the French sense of the word.

1889 CONTROVERSY WITH BISHOP MAG EE

   ISuch a waste !                           shall have to omit a paragraph that was really

a masterpiece.

    For who should I come upon in one of the rooms but the
IBishop ! As we shook hands,
                                                      h"e   asked whether that   was    before the
fight or after ; and answered,                                                  Then     we spoke
                                                           A little of both."

our minds pretty plainly ; and then we agreed to bury the hatchet.*                                                                                                                      I
                         I tore                                     I!t--wEavsersoyoauprpsr,opriate
       So   yesterday                         up the paragraph.
could      not even    save it               up for somebody else

                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

                                                      3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                                        May 22, 1889.

   My dear Knowles --I sent back my proof last evening. I

shall be in town Friday afternoon to Monday morning next, having

wna"ohllatoohsltetin.owgf otarhDdbiniod"gustyatoou"ddpnooao.rntc'etslSamoygiintylotdougmhoobmewl,eaty"loasnsitgtwtinheagltlgolbteehytsisamosenscersaeseo-ecedoloaawlnragefsivreiatsose"  of the
                  is                                       "),                                                                                                                           (I say
                                                                it
                      ?                                                                                                                                                                  be the

                       I                                                                                                                                                                    have
                                                                                is !
the last word. But you must expect nothing from me for the nextit
                                                                                   II
three or four months. We shall be off abroad, not later than the                          I is

8th June, and among the everlasting hills, fico for your contro
                                                                    a

versies           Wace's paper shall be waste paper for me. Oh                          This
a

  I
               !
my"gdooathukib"ntksw--yhobicuuhtarPeetrewigrabhsot rtoaobuooguhttewmthopeutinlwdgi.nneotaAnuldnldewtrhasettaenrtde.beutostianlelesrss--wohualdd

have been on my side.

   There no more curious example of the influence of education

than the respect with which this poor bit of conjuring                                  regarded.
Your genuine pietist would find mystical sense in thimblerig.
                                                         a
trust you have properly enjoyed the extracts from Newman. That
                                                                   aI
a  man  dorifvehli--s ibnytellPeacptissthryo,uld      be   brought down to     the utterance of
such                                                  one    of the strongest
                                                  is                           of.o--f  arguments
                                                           mankind, know                Ever yours
against that damnable perverter of                                     T. H. Huxley.

very faithfully,

   Shortly afterwards, he received                                     long and rambling

letter in connection with this subject. Referring to the
passage in the first article, " the apostolic injunction to

 suffer fools gladly should be the rule of life of a true
agnostic," the writer began by begging him " to suffer
'
                                               '

gladly' one fool more," and after several pages wound up                                I'

       As he says (Coll. Ess. v. 210), this chance meeting ended "a temporary

misunderstanding with man of rare ability, candour, and wit, for whom enter
tained great liking and no less respect."
   1
         a

                                          a

228          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                                         chap, xiv

with a variation of the same phrase. It being impossible

to give any valid answer to his hypothetical inquiries,
Huxley could not resist the temptation to take the opening

thus offered him, and replied :--

     Sir --

        the
Iwith
             I beg leave to acknowledge                                                    your letter.  have  complied
                                         opening paragraph. --                                                 Faithfully
             request preferred in its                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

yours,

     The following letter also arises out of this controversy :--

     IIts occasion (writes Mr. Taylor) was one which had written on
seeing an article in which he referred to the Persian sect of the
IBabis.
             had read with much interest the account of it in Count

Gobineau's book, and was much struck with the points of likeness to

the foundation of Christianity, and the contrast between the sub

sequent history of the two ; I asked myself how, given the points of

similarity, to account for the contrast ; is it due to the Divine within
Ithe one, or the human surroundings ? This question
                                                                                                               put to

Professor Huxley, with many apologies for intruding on his leisure,

and a special request that he would not suffer himself to be further

troubled by any reply.

             To Mr. Robert Taylor

                                         4 Marlborough Place, N.W.,
                                                     June 3, 1889.

     Sir -- In looking through  Ia mass of papers, before                                                      leave

England for some months among the mountains in search of health,

I Ihave come upon your letter of 7 th March. As a rule find that
Iout of the innumerable letters addressed to me, the only ones wish
to answer are those the writers of which are considerate enough to

ask that they may receive no reply, and yours is no exception.
     The question you put is very much to the purpose : a proper

and full answer would take up many pages ; but it will suffice to

furnish the heads to be filled up by your own knowledge.

bpeirrtmh1e--. atTeashdeNtaChzeharuewrncoihsrmldf--ouanbndudtedEdbibdioy nbJeiescmsoum.se  has not    made its way ; has  not
                                                                                             extinct                       its
                                                                                                       in the country of

     2. The Church that did make its way and coalesced with the

State in the 4th century had no more to do with the Church founded
by Jesus than Ultramontanism has with Quakerism. It is Alexan
drian Judaism and Neoplatonistic mystagogy, and as much of the

                              POSITIVISM                                                   229

old idolatry and demonology as could be got in under new or old

names.

3. Paul has said that the Law was schoolmaster to Christ with
more truth than he
                              knew.    Thhanroguergsh-oonut--tthheosEemwpihroe  t"hefeasryendagoGgoudes"
--hadantdheiwr hcolouwdereof  Gentile

                              fully prepared to accept a Christianity, which

was merely an expurgated Judaism and the belief in Jesus as the
Messiah.
     4. The   Christian       " Sodalitia " were      not merely                religious  bodies,

but friendly    societies,    b--urtihael  societies, and guilds.                  They hung
together for  all purposes                 mob hated them as it                 now hates the

Jews in Eastern Europe, because they were more frugal, more
industrious, and lived better lives than their neighbours, while they

              thliiknegsScaortechmsoe--n.
Istuck
     If
together           are so--what            and  appeal  to your knowledge of
  these            falsehood of

history that they                           has the   soufccJeesssuso?f--TC. hI Hrais.mti,Hanyuoitxuyrlsetyov.edryo
with the truth or                          the story

faithfully,

     The following letter was written in reply to one from
Mr. Clodd on the first of the articles in this controversy.
This article, it must be remembered, not only replied to

Dr. Wace's attack, but at the same time bantered Mr.

Frederic Harrison's pretensions on behalf of Positivism at
the expense alike of Christianity and Agnosticism.

                                           3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                             Fet. 19, 1889.

My dear Mr. Clodd-- I am very much obliged to you for
                                                      If I do not empty all
your cheery and appreciative letter.
Harrison's vials of wrath I shall be astonished ! But of all the

sickening humbugs in the world, the sham pietism of the Positivists

is to me the most offensive.               Ito say my say about these questions,
                                           This time last year was so ill that I
    I have long been wanting

but my hands were too full.
Ithought to myself, with Hamlet, "the rest is silence." But my wiry

constitution has unexpectedly weathered the storm, and have every

reason to believe that with renunciation of the devil and all his

works (i.e. public speaking, dining and being dined, etc.) my faculties
may be unimpaired for a good spell yet. And whether my lease is

long or short, I mean to devote them to the work I began in the
paper on the Evolution of Theology.
     You will see in the next Nineteenth a paper on the Evidence of
Miracles, which I think will be to your mind.

230

for  iHt. u--ttoEnveris   beginning   to drivel.*     There really is no other word
                         yours very  faithfully,                     T. H. Huxley.

                                     To the Same

                                                                        4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                              April 15, 1889.

     My dear Mr. Clodd--The adventurous Mr. C. wrote to me
I Isome time ago.
                                  expressed my regret that could do nothing for

the evolution of tent-pegs. What wonderful people there are in the

world !

    Many thanks for calling my attention to " Antiqua Mater." I

Iwill look it up. I have such a rooted objection to returning books,

that never borrow one or allow anybody to lend me one if I can

help it.

    I Ihear that Wace is to have another innings, and am very glad

of as will give me the opportunity of putting the case once more
a it,
       is it
as connected argument.

     It Baur's great merit to have seen that the key to the problem
of Christianity lies in the Epistle to the Galatians. No doubt he

and his followers rather overdid the thing, but that                                         always the
                                                                                       I is
way with those who take up new idea.                                                              I
                                     a

I      hmavyethsh"ad--fo1r.       some time  the notion of dealing with the " Three
                                  Creation;
great                                        2. Fall; 3. Deluge; but suspect

am getting to the end of my tether physically, and shall have to start

for the Engadine in another month's time.

     Many thanks for your congratulations about my daughter's

marriage. No two people could be better suited for one another,

and    there        --cEhvaerrmiynogurslittvleerygrfaanitdh-fdualluyg, hter  of  the  first  marriage  to
be   cared
is            for.                                                                T.   H.    Huxley.

      One more piece1             of writing dates                      from     this        time.     He
writes to his wife on
        a                         March --
                  it is                         2
                                                   :
                         a
                              isA man whobringing outaseries of portraits of celebrities,

with sketch of their career attached, has bothered me out of my

life for something to go with my portrait, and to escape the

abominable bad taste of some of the notices, have done that.
                                     it                                                                I
                                              is
                                                                i.

                                                              I
shall show you before goes back to Engel in proof.

     This sketch of his life the brief autobiography which
    printed at the beginning of vol of the Collected Essays.

      This refers to an article in the Spectator on " Professor Huxley and Agnos

ticism," Feb. 9, 1889, which suggests, with regard to demoniac possession, that
the old doctrine of one spirit driving out another as good as any new explana
tion, and fortifies this conclusion by reference to the phenomena of hypnotism.
                                             a
                                                                    is

1889 AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH                                                                          231

He was often pressed, both by friends and by strangers, to

give them some more autobiography ; but moved either by
dislike of any approach to egotism, or by the knowledge that

if biography is liable to give a false impression, autobio

graphy may leave one still more false, he constantly refused

to do so especially so long as he had capacity for useful work.

I found, however, among his papers, an entirely different

sketch of his early life, half-a-dozen sheets describing the
time he spent in the East end, with an almost Carlylese

sense of the horrible disproportions of life. I cannot tell

whether this was a first draft for the present autobiography,
or the beginnings of a larger undertaking.

      Several letters of miscellaneous interest were written

before the move to the Engadine took place. They touch
on such points as the excessive growth of scientific clubs,
the use of alcohol for brain workers, advice to one who was
not likely to " suffer fools gladly " about applying for the
assistant secretaryship of the British Association, and the
question of the effects of the destruction of immature fish,

besides personal matters.

                         3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                          March 22, 1889.

    My dear Hooker -- I suppose the question of amalgamation

with the Royal is to be discussed at the Phil. Club. The sooner

something of the kind takes place the better. There is really no

raison d'etre left for the Phil. Club, and considering the hard work

mofulstcipielinetdificbemyoenndinnetcheessseityd.a--ys,Evcelurbsyoaurres, like  hypotheses, not to    be
                                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

                         4 Marlborough Place,
                              March 26, 1889.

     My dear Hooker -- The only science to which X. has con

Itributed, so far as know, is the science of self-advertisement ; and

of that he is a master.
                   and I were youngsters, we thought
to    When    you                                                               it the great  thing
    exorcise  the  aristocratic flunkeyism which reigned                         in the R.S.
                                                                                              -- the

danger   now is that of the entry of seven devils                               waonrdse"  than the   first,
in the  shape of rich engineers, chemical traders,                                         experts "  (who

have sold their souls for a good price), and who find it helps them

to appear to the public as if they were men of science.

    If the Phil. Club had kept pure, it might have acted as a check

upon the intrusion of the mere trading element. But there seems

232              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, xiv

to be no reason now against Jack and Tom and Harry getting in,
and the thing has become an imposture.

    ISo go with you for extinction, before we begin to drag in

the mud.

    II wish could take some more active part in what is going on.
I Iam anxious about the Society altogether. But though am
Iwonderfully well so long as live like a hermit, and get out into the

air of the Downs, either London, or bother, and still more both com

nbainrerodw, esitn. t--imaEtveerreysopuercst,fully  but firmly, that my margin is of the
                                                                               T. H. Huxley.

     The following is to his daughter in Paris. Of course it

was the Tuileries,  not       the                   Louvre, which  was    destroyed  in

--1 87 1 :

    I think you are quite right about French women. They are like

French dishes, uncommonly well cooked and sent up, but what the
dickens they are made of is a mystery. Not but what all woman

kind are mysteries, but there are mysteries of godliness and

mysteries of iniquity.                              in the         Louvre ?--dear    me,
      Have you been to see the sculptures
I forgot the Louvre's fate. I wonder where the sculpture is? I

used to think it the best thing in the way of art in Paris. There

was a youthful Bacchus who was the main support of my thesis as to
the greater beauty of the male figure !

    IProbably had better conclude.

     To Mr. E. T. Collings (of Bolton)

                                                    4 Marlborough Place,
                                                           April 9, 1889.

     Dear Sir -- I understand that you ask me what I think about
" alcohol as a stimulant to the brain in mental work " ?
                              (wainthdoupterhheaspistatiIonm, aythaatddI
    ISpeaking                                                             for persons of my
                                                                          would just as soon
temperament),
                 for myself

                  I can say,

take a dose of arsenic as would of alcohol, under such circum
stances. Indeed on the whole, I should think the arsenic safer, less
                                                                          It would be
likely to lead to physical and moral degradation.

better to die outright than to be alcoholised before death.
     If a man
he               cannot do brain work without       stimulants            of any kind,
     had better                                     indication            on Nature's
                 turn to hand work-- it is an

part that she did not mean him to be a head worker.
     The circumstances of my life have led me to experience all sorts

of conditions in regard to alcohol, from total abstinence to nearly
the other end of the scale, and my clear conviction is the less the

Ibetter, though by no means feel called upon to forego the comfort

ing and cheering effect of a little.

188g ALCOHOL AND BRAIN WORK                                                                                                                                     233

    But for no conceivable consideration would I use it to whip up a

tired or sluggish brain. Indeed, for me there is no working time so
good as between breakfast and lunch, when there is not a trace of

alcohol in my composition.

                                                                                   4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                                            May 6, 1889.

    My dear Hooker -- I meant                                           to have turned up at the x on
Thursday, but I was unwell and,                                         moreover, worried and bothered
Iabout Collier's illness at Venice, and awaiting telegram sent there.
IHe has contrived to get scarlatina, but
                                                                                                                                            hope he will get safe

through as he seems to be going on well. We were getting ready
    I
      iIf

               it,

               I
to go out until we were reassured on that point.

      thought would go to the Academy dinner on Saturday, and

that  did not eat and drink and came away early,                                                                                                                might
                                                                                        I
venture.                                                                a  glimpse of the world, the fleshI
                                                                                               aI
     It was pleasant enough to have
                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                     a
(on the walls, nude and the devil (there were several Bishops), but
oh, dear how done was yesterday.
      !

                   !),I

      However, we are off to Eastbourne to-day, and hope to wash

three weeks'        London     oJuunt eo. f--mEeveber foyroeurslo,ng.                                                                       think    we  Hsuhaxlllegyo.  to
Maloja again         early in                                                                                                                 T.
                                                                                                                                                    H.

quarCtearpiotaf lanphoroturar itoninSatthuerdaNye--w                     Gallery,  when                                                          looked     in  for
                                                                        only you   never                                                    were quite      so  fat in

the cheeks, and     don't believe you have got such splendid fur-
      !
coat
                  I
                                                                        Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                                     3

                                                                        May 22, 1889.

      ... As to the Assistant Secretaryship of the British Associa
tion, have turned over great deal in my mind since your letter
      it I          I          Ia
                        it        I
                it
reached me, and really cannot convince myself that you would

suit or would suit you.                                                 have not heard who are candidates

or anything about and am not going to take any part in theit,
election. But looking at the thing solely from the point of view of

your interests, should strongly advise you against taking even
it                                                                                                                                                          it,

                I                                                                                                                                                    if

were offered.                  " suffer  fools                          gladly "                                                            should  be the guide of

  My pet aphorism

the Assistant Secretary, who, during the fortnight of his activity, has

more little vanities and rivalries to smooth over and conciliate than

ogsthatlaehydeylreyoxpu"peloaoprsoelieonnwmtrhoeelineetgcso----wnittNnrhaootriynt,iunyoquruleifoge"qatuigrmedla--ed. lbtyoumtNatothkhweeat  you do not "suffer fools
      ;
                                             a                                                                                                              do not

                                                                           is

                                                             I
                                                                                                                                            fools suffer."

                                                                                                                                            where the danger of

                                                                                                                                            larger business of the

Association.

234                       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                     chap, xiv

      The risk is great and the £300 a year is not worth                I it.  Foster

knows all about the place ask him                        am not right.
                                        ;

                                                   iIf
                                                          I
      Many thanks for the suggestion about Spirula. But the matter

in state in which no one can be of any use but myself. At
is

      Ia

                       a
present am at the end of my tether and mean to be off to the

Engadine                  fortnight hence-- most likely not to return before

October.

      Not even the sweet voice of                        will lure me from my retire

ment. The Academy dinner knocked me up for three days, though
drank no wine, ate very little, and vanished after the Prince of
I
   I
                  I
Wales' speech. The truth                I iIs  have very little margin of strength to

go upon even now, though am marvellously better than was.

        am very glad that you see the importance of doing battle with

the clericals.            am astounded at the narrowness of view of many of

our colleagues on this point. They shut their eyes to the obstacles

which clericalism raises in every direction against scientific ways of

thinking, which are even more important than scientific dis

coveries.

        desire that the next generation may be less fettered by the
      II
                                   iIf
                                               I
gross and stupid superstitions of orthodoxy than mine has been.

And     shall be well satisfied                    can   succeed to   however small     an
        in bringing about that                             am, yours  very faithfully,
extent                                      result. --

                                                             T. H. Huxley.

                                                          Marlborough Place,
                                                          4
                                                             May 25, 1889.
                                                                is if I
      My dear Lankester-- cannot attend the Council meeting                  if
                II
                                a                                                                     is
                              I
                                I
                                                      a
on the 29th.              have meeting of the Trustees of the British Museum

to-day, and to be examined by Committee on Monday, and as the

sudden heat half kills me shall be fit for nothing but to slink off to

Eastbourne again.

      However, do hope the Council will be very careful what they
say or do about the immature fish question. The thing has been

discussed over and over again ad nauseam, and doubt there

anything to be added to the evidence in the blue-books.
      The idee fixe of the British public, fishermen, M.P.'s and
                                            that all small fish, you do not catch
ignorant persons generally              is

them, grow up into big fish. They cannot be got to understand

that the wholesale destruction of the immature the necessary part

of the general order of things, from codfish to men.

      You seem to have some very interesting things to talk about at

the Royal Institution.
      Do you see any chance of educating the white corpuscles of the

ihnumpaarnsonrsace--tEovedresytroouyrs  the theological   bacteria    which are bred
           ?                            very faithfully,              H. Huxley.
                                                                  T.

1889 IMMATURE FISH                                                                               235

                                     3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                        May 19, 1889.

     My dear Donnelly -- The Vice-President's letter has brought

home to me one thing very clearly, and that                                      that had no
business to sign the Report. Of course he has                                 right to hold me
                                                                            is a is,
responsible for document to which my name
                                                                               I iIf
                                                                                    I
          I                                                                     attached, and    I
                        a
                                  a
should look more like fool than ever wish to do,                                    had to tell
                                     it I I
him that            had taken the thing entirely on trust.                      have always

objected to the sleeping partnership in the Examination and unless
                                                                                a;
can be made quite clear that am nothing but "consulting
it

         I
doctor," really must get out of entirely.
     Of course cannot say whether the Report                                is  justified by the
                                                                              them. But from
facts or not, when do not know anything about
                    I
                       I

my experience of what the state of things used to be, should say                I

that in all probability, fair.
     The faults mentioned are exactly those which always have made
     it
           is,

their appearance, and expect always will do so, and do not see
                          I                                                     I

why the attention of the teachers should not as constantly be
directed to them. You talk of Eton. Well, the reports of the

Examiners to the governing body, year after year, had the same

unpleasing monotony, and             do not believe that there                                   any
                          if                                                    I
                                I                                                  I

                                            it I                                          it is
educational body, from the Universities downwards, which would                                  d

come out much better, the Examiners' reports were published and

they did their duty.
if
   I
          am unable to see my way (and suppose you are) to any
better method of State encouragement of science teaching than
payment by results. The great and manifest evil of that system,

however,        is  the steady pressure which                               exerts in the development

of every description of sham teaching. And the only check upon

this kind of swindling the public seems to me to lie in the hands of

the Examiners.      I  told Mr. Forster so, ages ago, when he talked to

me about the gradual increase of the expenditure, and have been

confirmed in my opinion by all subsequent experience. What                                       t--he
people who read the reports may say, should not care one 2d.

      had to administer the thing.
iIf                                  ;
                                                        a

                                                  I
      Nine out of ten of them are incompetent to form any opinion
on an educational subject and as mere matter of policy, should,

in dealing with them, be only too glad to be able to make clear
that some of the defects and shortcomings inherent in this (as in all
systems) had been disguised, and that even the most fractious of
Examiners had said their say without let or hindrance.

          the nature of the system which seems to me to demand as
a

     It

            is

                 I

                                               if

                                                                         a
corrective incessant and severe watchfulness on the part of the

Examiners, and see no harm           they little overdo the thing in

236              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         CHAP. XIV

this direction, for every sham they let through is an encouragement

to  other shams  "agnrdeaptoth-teeaarcth"ingof  in general.
                                                the people
     And if the                                              and  its thick head  can't

be got to appreciate honesty, why the sooner we shut up the better.

Ireland   may be for the      Irish,  but science            teaching is not for the
sake of  science teachers.             yours,
                            --Ever                               T. H. Huxley.

                CHAPTER XV

                                             1889

From the middle of June to the middle of September,
Huxley was in Switzerland, first at Monte Generoso, then,
when the weather became more settled, at the Maloja.
Here, as his letters show, he "rejuvenated " to such an extent
that Sir Henry Thompson, who was at the Maloja, scoffed
at the idea of his ever having had dilated heart.

                             Monte Generoso, Tessin, Suisse,

                                          June 25, 1889.

    IMy dear Hooker -- am quite agreed with the proposed
Iarrangements for the x, and hope shall show better in the register

of attendance next session.
    I IWhen am striding about the hills here
Iinvalidism were a mere piece of malingering.
                                          really feel as if my
                                          When am well I
Ican walk up hill and down dale as well as did twenty years ago.
IBut my margin is abominably narrow, and am at the mercy of" liver
and lights." Sitting up for long and dining are questions of margin.

    I do not know if you have been here. We are close on 4000
feet up and look straight over the great plain of N. Italy on the one

side and to a great hemicycle of mountains, Monte Rosa among

them, on the other. I do not know anything more beautiful in its

way. But the whole time we have been here the weather has been

extraordinary.  On the average, about two thunderstorms per diem.
I am sure that a good meteorologist might study the place with

advantage. The barometer has not varied three-twentieths of an

inch the whole time, notwithstanding the storms.           but it is

    I hear the weather has been bad all over Switzerland,

not high and dry enough for me here, and we shall be off to the

Maloja on Saturday next, and shall stay there till we return some

where in September. Collier and Ethel will join us there in August.

He is none the worse for his scarlatina.

238          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                      chap, xv

     " Aged Botanist ! " marry come up ! 1 I should like to know
Iof a younger                                heard myself called " the

old gentleman                               were in South Devon. A
             s"pawraks.    The first time

                         years ago when we

half-drunken Devonian had made himself very offensive, in the com
partment in which my wife and I were travelling, and got some
                                       me, accompanied, I doubt not,
"simple      "SAaixno'tn"thefroomld                                                                by      an   awful
scowl.                                 gentleman in a rage," says he.
     I am very glad to hear of Reggie's success, and my wife joins
                                       It is a comfort to see one's shoots
with me in congratulations.

planted out and taking root, though the idea that one's cares

and anxieties about them are diminished, we find to be an illusion.

    IfI inclose cheque for my contributions due and to come.f
I go to
             Dchaavmy'psagnLeock!--er   before October, the latter                                 may go  for    con
solation                               Ever yours affectionately,

                                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.

      He writes from the Maloja on August 16 to Sir M.
Foster, who had been sitting on the Vaccination Com

mission :--

     I wonder how you are prospering, whether you have vaccina

tion or anti-vaccination on the brain ; or whether the gods have

prospered    you so far as to send      you on a holiday.                                             We have been
here since                                Monte Generoso
             the beginning of July.                                                                proved lovely--

but electrical. We had on the average three thunderstorms every

                Bellagio was as hot as  the tropics, and we
                                        whatever else may
             came on here -- where,
Itwo days.                                                                                         stayed only a
                                                                                                   happen, it is
day, and
never too hot. The weather has been good and                                                       have profited
I Iimmensely, and at present do not know whether have a heart or
not. But I have to look very sharp after my liver. H. Thompson,

Iwho has been here with his son Herbert (clever fellow, by the way),

treats the notion that ever had a dilated heart with scorn ! Oh

these doctors ! they are worse than theologians.

     And again on August 31 :--

     II walked eighteen miles three or four days ago, and I think
nothing of one or two thousand feet up !                                                           hope this state of things

will last at the sea-level.

    II am always glad to hear of and from you, but have not been

idle long enough to forget what being busy means, so don't let your

...conscience worry you about answering my letters.
               X. am afraid, more or less of an ass.
1                                                                                                  The opposition

       J.

            iIs,

                                                                                                2
        Sir  Hooker jestingly congratulated him on taking up botany in his old
                                                                           For the x Club.
age.

                PASTE UK S WORK                                                                         239

he and his friends have been making to the Technical Bill is quite
unintelligible to me. Y. may be, and I rather think
is                                                                                               knave, but

     I
                        ;
                   iIf
                                                                  is
                                                                                            it.
                                                                                         is,
                                                                                             a
he no fool and             mistake not he minded to kick the ultra

-radical stool down now that he has mounted by              Make friends of

...that Mammon of unrighteousness and swamp the sentimentalists.
                despise your insinuations. All my friends here have
been theological -- Bishop, Chief Rabbi, and Catholic Professor.

None of your Maybrick discussors.

      On June 25 he wrote to Professor Ray Lankester,
enclosing a letter to be read at meeting called by the Lord
I
                               1,
                                                         a
Mayor, on July to hear statements from men of science

with regard to the recent increase of rabies in this country,

and the efficiency of the treatment discovered by M.

Pasteur for the prevention of hydrophobia.                                                              --
       quote the latter from the report in Nature for July
                                                            if a

                                                                it I
                                                                        I

                                                                                4

                                                                                                   :
                                                          Monte Generoso, Tessin, Suisse,

                                                            June 25, 1889.

      My dear Lankester -- inclose herewith letter for the Lord
      It

            is
                it
                       a

                                  it I

                                                      is
Mayor and    cheque for £5                              as pmreyttysumbsuccrhipt"iopne.mmicawnish"     could
                                                                                                    already.
make the letter shorter, but

However, does not much matter being read                    only gets into

print.                     good of the Lord Mayor
                           the row the anti-vivisection
Science,   uncommonly                                       tpoacskt--anddogusp                      for
          in the teeth of                                                                           and

doggesses--are making.                                                                              if  the

      May his shadow never be less.
      We shall be off to the Maloja at the end of this week,

weather mends. Thunderstorms here every day, and sometimes twoa

or three day for the last ten days.-- Ever yours very faithfully,

                                                              T. H. Huxley.

                                                          Monte Generoso, Switzerland,

                                                            June 25, 1889.

      My Lord Mayor -- greatly regret my inability to be present
                is

                 I

                                                      it
at the meeting which to be held, under your Lordship's auspices,

in reference to M. Pasteur and his Institute. The unremitting

labours of that eminent Frenchman during the last half-century have
yielded rich harvests of new truths, and are models of exact and
refined research. As such they deserve, and have received, all the
honours which those who are the best judges of their purely

scientific merits are able to bestow. But                   so happens that these

240               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                    chap, xv

s--ubotfle   and    patient  searchings out of        the ways   of the infinitely  little
            the   swarming     life where the          creature  that measures      one-

thousandth part of an inch is a giant--have also yielded results of
supreme practical importance. The path of M. Pasteur's investiga

tions is strewed with gifts of vast monetary value to the silk trades,

the brewer, and the wine merchant. And this being so, it might
well be a proper and graceful act on the part of the representatives

of trade and commerce in its greatest centre to make some public
recognition of M. Pasteur's services, even if there were nothing

further to be said about them. But there is much more to be said.

M. Pasteur's direct and indirect contributions to our knowledge of

the causes of diseased states, and of the means of preventing their

recurrence, are not measurable by money values, but by those of

healthy life and diminished suffering to men. Medicine, surgery,
and hygiene have all been powerfully affected by M. Pasteur's work,

which has culminated in his method of treating hydrophobia. I

cannot conceive that any competently instructed person can consider

M. Pasteur's labours in this direction without arriving at the con

clusion that, if any man has earned the praise and honour of his

fellows, he has. I find it no less difficult to imagine that our

wealthy country should be other than ashamed to continue to allow

its citizens to profit by the treatment freely given at the Institute

without contributing to its support. Opposition to the proposals

which your Lordship sanctions would be equally inconceivable if it
Iarose out of nothing but the facts of the case thus presented. But

the opposition which, as see from the English papers, is threatened

has really for the most part nothing to do either with M. Pasteur's

merits or with the efficacy of his method of treating hydrophobia. It
proceeds partly from the fanatics of laissez faire, who think it better

to rot and die than to be kept whole and lively by State interference,
partly from the blind opponents of properly conducted physiological

experimentation, who prefer that men should suffer than rabbits or

dogs, and partly from those who for other but not less powerful

motives hate everything which contributes to prove the value of

Istrictly scientific methods of enquiry in all those questions which
affect the welfare of society.        sincerely trust that the good sense

of the meeting over which your Lordship will preside will preserve

it from being influenced by those unworthy antagonisms, and that

Ithe just and     --beneavmol,enmt y  enterprise you   have undertaken may    have  a
                                                      your obedient servant,
happy issue.                          Lord Mayor,     Thomas H. Huxley.

                             Hotel Kursaal, Maloja, Haute Engadine,
                                                  July 8, 1889.

     IMy dear Lankester -- Many thanks for your letter.                             was

rather anxious as to the result of the meeting, knowing the malice

                                      RETURN HOME                                          241

and subtlety of the Philistines, but as it turned out they were
Ieffectually snubbed.
                                      was glad to see your allusion to Coleridge's
             It will teach him to think twice before he abuses
Iimpertinences.
his position again.                   do not understand Stead's position in the
Pall Mall. He snarls but does not bite.
I am glad that the audience (I judge from the Times report)
seemed to make the points of my letter, and live in hope that
Iwhen I see last week's Spectator
                                          shall find Hutton frantic.  me    from
     This morning a letter marked          " Immediate " reached
IBourne, date July 3.
                                      am afraid he does not read the papers or

he would     have known it             was of no use to      appeal to me in               an
emergency.
               I am writing           to him. -- Ever yours  Tv.eryH.faiHthufuxlllye,y.

      On his return to England, however, a fortnight of
London, interrupted though it was by a brief visit to Mr.
and Mrs. Humphry Ward at the delightful old house of
Great Hampden, was as much as he could stand. " I begin
to discover," he writes to Sir M. Foster, " I have a heart
again, a circumstance of which I had no reminder at the
Maloja." So he retreated at once to Eastbourne, which had

done him so much good before.

                                                         4 Marlborough Place,

                                                                  Sept. 24, 1889.

My dear Hooker-- How's a' wi' ye? We came back from

the Engadine early in the month, and are off to Eastbourne
tomorrow. I rejuvenate
                                      in  Switzerland and  ansednetshceatesoo(infertheIre    is
no such verb, there ought             to  be) in London,                                   am

Iout of it the better.
     When are you going to have an x ?                       cannot  minakSecootluatndw.h--at
has become of Spencer, except that he is                 somewhere
                                                             T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours,

bourWnee--shfraolml beto-amtororouwr  old quarters  --3  Jevington   Gardens, East
                                       onwards.

     The next letter shows once more the value he set upon
botanical evidence in the question of the influence of con
ditions in the process of evolution.

                                          3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,

                                                                 Sept. 29, 1889.

IMy dear Hooker -- hope to be with you at the Athenaeum
on Thursday. It does one good to hear of your being in such
VOL. II
                                                                      R

LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 chap, xv

good working order. My knowledge of orchids is infinitesimally

small, but there were some eight or nine species plentiful in the
IEngadine, and
                learned enough to appreciate the difficulties.

Why do not some of these people who talk about the direct
influence of conditions try to explain the structure of orchids on

that tack ? Orchids at any rate  can't           try to  imbapgrsov--e  themselves in
taking shots at insects' heads   with            pollen                 as Lamarck's

Giraffes tried to stretch their necks !

     Balfour's ballon d'essai* (I do not believe it could have been any

thing more) is the only big blunder he has made, and it passes my
comprehension why he should have made it. But he seems to have

dropped it again like the proverbial hot potato. If he had not, he

would have hopelessly destroyed the Unionist party.-- Ever yours,
                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

     At the end of the year he thanks Lord Tennyson for
his gift of " Demeter."

                                                         Dec. 26, 1889.

My dear Tennyson -- Accept my best thanks for your very
Ikind present of " Demeter."
                                                 have not had a Christmas Box
II valued so much for many a long year.
                                                         envy your vigour, and
am ashamed of myself beside you for being turned out to grass. I

kick up my heels now and then, and have a gallop round the

paddock, but it does not come to much.
                                                  if Lady Tennyson has
      With best wishes   to  heyroua, lsaon--d,                            not for
gotten me altogether,   to                       Believe me, yours very  faithfully,
                                                         T. H. Huxley.

A discussion in the Times this autumn, in which he

joined, was of unexpected moment to him, inasmuch as it

was the starting-point for no fewer than four essays in

political philosophy, which appeared the following year in

the Nineteenth Century.

The correspondence referred to arose out of the heckling

of Mr. John Morley by one of his constituents at Newcastle
in November 1889. The heckler questioned him concerning

private property in land, quoting some early dicta from the
" Social Statics " of Mr. Herbert Spencer, which denied the

justice of such ownership.       Comments and explanations
ensued in the Times; Mr. Spencer declared that he had

since partly altered that view, showing that contract has in

part superseded force as the ground of ownership ; and that

1 i.e. touching a proposed Roman Catholic University for Ireland.

1889 ' THE NATURAL INEQUALITY OF MEN'                                                           243

in any case it referred to the idea of absolute ethics, and not

to relative or practical politics.

      Huxley entered first into the correspondence to point
out present and perilous applications of the absolute in

contemporary politics. Touching on a State guarantee of

the title to land, he asks if there is any moral right for

confiscation :--In Ireland, he says, confiscation is justified by

the appeal to wrongs inflicted a century ago ; in England the
theorems of " absolute political ethics " are in danger of

being employed to make this generation of land -owners
responsible for the misdeeds of William the Conqueror and

his followers. (Times, November 12.)                                of a
      His remaining share in the discussion consisted
                                                                    ques
brief passage of arms with Mr. Spencer on the main

tion,* and a reply to another correspondent,! which brings
forward an argument enlarged upon in one of the essays, viz.

that if the land belongs to all men equally, why should one
nation claim one portion rather than another ? For several
ownership is just as much an infringement of the world's

ownership as is personal ownership.                                Moreover, history

shows that land was originally held in several ownership,
and that not of the nation, but of the village community.

     These signs of renewed vigour induced Mr. Knowles to
write him a " begging letter," proposing an article for the

NMiangeeteee'snthreceCnetntuurtyteraenictehser--  in  commendation of Bishop
                                                  it
                                                      would be     fiennecofuonrteer u--logoyr  to
come from such a quarter after                         the recent                               on

the general subject of which his Times letters dealt with

a part.

    --Huxley's choice was for the latter.             Writing on Novem

ber 2 1 , he says :

Now as to the article. I have only hesitated because I want to
get out a new volume of essays, and I am writing an introduc
Ition which gives me an immensity of trouble.
                                                                   had made up my
Imind to get it done by Christmas, and if write for you it won't be.
However, if you don't mind leaving it open till the end of this
               I will see what
smaoyn, th",                    can be done in        the way of a screed about,
              The Absolute in   Practical Life."      The Bishop would come in

excellently ; he deserves all praises, and my only hesitation about

              1 November 18.                          November 21.

244  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                      chap, xv

singing them is that the conjunction between the " Infidel " and the

Churchman is just what the blatant platform Dissenters who had

been at him would like. I don't want to serve the Bishop, for whom
I have a great liking and respect, as the bear served his sleeping

master, when he smashed his nose in driving an unfortunate fly away !
      By the way, has the Bishop published his speech or sermon ?

I have only seen a newspaper report.

      Soon after this, he proposed to come to town and talk
over the article with Mr. Knowles. The latter sent him a

telegram -- reply paid-- asking him to fix a day. The

answer named a day of the week and a day of the month

which did not agree ; whereupon Mr. Knowles wrote by the
safer medium of the post for an explanation, thinking that

the post-office clerks must have bungled the message, and
received the following reply :--

                        3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,

                                            Nov. 26, 1889.

     My dear Knowles --May jackasses sit upon the graves of all
Itelegraph clerks ! But the boys are worse, and
                                                              shall have to

write to the P.-M.-General about the little wretch who brought your

telegram the other day, when my mind was deeply absorbed in the

concoction of an article for the Review of our age.
     The creature read my answer, for he made me pay three half

I-pence extra (I believe he spent it on toffy), and yet was so stupid as

not to see that meaning to fix next Monday or Tuesday, opened

my diary to give the dates in order that there should be no mistake,

and found Monday        28 and Tuesday 29.      say  he  did  not  know                            I
                        the little beast would
    And I suppose

Iopened it in October instead of November !                   boys !-- Ever

          hate such mean ways. Hang all telegraph
                                                     T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

  Monday, December 2, if you have nothing against             and lunch
Mrs. Knowles will give me some.
if

                                                                                                a

                                                                                it it,
                                                                                        it
     The article was finished by the middle of December
and duly sent to the editor, under the title of " Rousseau and

Rousseauism." But fearing that this title would scarcely

attract attention among the working-men for whom was

specially designed, Mr. Knowles suggested instead the
" Natural Inequality of Men," under which name
                                                                   actually

appeared in January. So, too, in the case of companion

1889 ' THE NATURAL INEQUALITY OF MEN'                                                    >45

article in March, the editorial pen was responsible for the
change from the arid possibilities of " Capital and Labour " to
the more attractive title of " Capital the Mother of Labour."

      With regard to this article and a further project of

extending his discussion of the subject, he writes :--

                                          3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,

                                                               Dec. 14, 1889.

go.   My       dear Knowles -- I am very glad                  you think the             article will
        It     is longer than I intended, but I                cannot accuse              myself of
having wasted words, and I have left out several things that might

have been said, but which can come in by and by.

to    As to title, do as you like,        bu"t      that you   propose does not seem
     me quite to hit the mark.                      Political  Humbug : Liberty and

Equality,"        st"ruPcokliticmael  aF"saicbtoaiuodtnesqu""aTtehm, eighbPtuotlibtiecmsysuopwfpioftesheeddeImctloaargeirsneafetriitontios:
improper.
Dizzie's novels ! How

Liberty and Inequality ?
I I I I"
          should like  to have some general          title     that would     do for the
    letters " which                                 write.           think     will make
                        see I shall have to
six of them after the fashion of my " Working Men's Lectures," as

thus: (1) Liberty and Equality ; (2) Rights of Man ; (3) Property;
(4) Malthus; (5) Government, the province of the State; (6) Law
-making and Law-breaking.
      II understand you will let me republish them, as soon as the last
fisormout,ofin"   a cheap   fo"rmra.ther  am not sure I will   not            put them   in the
                  Lectures
                                          than " Letters."                     " Progress and
                                                                              poor Rousseau's
      Did      "  you     ever     read      Henry  George's book
Poverty                         more      damneder   nonsense than
                  ?    It is
                  And to think of the popularity of the book ! But I
blether.
Iought to be grateful, as can cut and come again at this wonderful

dish.

    The mischief of it is I do not see how I am to finish the intro
duction to my Essays, unless I put off sending you a second dose

until March.
      I will send back the revise as quickly as possible. -- Ever yours
                                                               T. H. Huxley.
very truly,

     You do not tell me that there is anything to which Spencer can

object, so I suppose there is nothing.

      And in an undated letter to Sir J. Hooker, he says :--
      I am glad you think well of the " Human Inequality " paper.

My    woiffe"  has persuaded me           " tfoorfothlleowmaitssuesp--wbityh  a view to  m" Tahkienrge'sa
               Primer of Politics                                             and by.
sort

246          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                         CHAr. xv

Ino telling what you may come to, my boy," said the Bishop who

reproved his son for staring at John Kemble, and may be a
pamphleteer yet ! But really it is time that somebody should treat
the people to common sense.

      However, immediately after the appearance of this first

article on Human Inequality, he changed his mind about
the Letters to Working Men, and resolved to continue what
he had to say in the form of essays in the Nineteenth

Century.

     He then judged it not unprofitable to call public

attention to the fallacies which first found their way into

practical politics through the disciples of Rousseau ; one of
                                                           312) that " busied
those speculators of whom he remarks
                                            ''

                                                      (i.
with deduction from their ideal ought to be,' they over

looked the what has been,' the what is,' and the what'               '

"Ican be.' " " Many a long year ago," he says in Natural
Rights and Political Rights            (i.  336),          fondly imagined

that Hume and Kant and Hamilton having slain the

'  Absolute,' the thing must, in decency, decease. Yet, at the

present time, the same hypostatised negation, sometimesa

thinly disguised under new name, goes about in broad day
light, in company with the dogmas of absolute ethics,

political and other, and seems to be as lively as ever."

This was to his              mind one  aocftitnhgo--se thinestapnocsetsulaotfinwgronggethnienrkal
ing which lead               to wrong                          a
                                                                      it
principle based upon insufficient data, and the deduction                       is

from      of many and far-reaching practical consequences.
      it

                          ;
This he had always strongly opposed. His essay of 1871,
" Administrative Nihilism," was directed against a priori

individualism and now he proceeded to restate the argu

ments against a priori political reasoning in general, which

seemed to have been forgotten or overlooked, especially by

the advocates of compulsory socialism.                     And here

possible to show in some detail the care he took, as was his

way, to refresh his knowledge and bring                        up to date,
                                               It

                                                    is
                                                           it
before writing on any special point.                       interesting to see

how thoroughly he went to work, even in a subject with

which he was already fairly acquainted. As in the contro

versy of 889 find list of near score of books consulted,a
so here one note-book contains an analysis of the origin and
          1

                I

                                   a

1889 ESSAYS ON POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY  247

early course of the French Revolution, especially in relation
to the speculations of the theorists ; the declaration of the
rights of man in 1789 is followed by parallels from Mably's
Droits et Devoirs du Citoyen and De la Legislation, and
by a full transcript of the 1793 Declaration, with notes
on Robespierre's speech at the Convention a fortnight later.

There are copious notes from Dunoyer, who is quoted in the
article, while the references to Rocquain's Esprit Revolu-
tionnaire led to an English translation of the work being

undertaken, to which he contributed a short preface in 1891.

     It was the same with other studies. He loved to visualise
his object clearly. The framework of what he wished to say
would always be drawn out first. In any historical matter
he always worked with a map. In natural history he well
knew the importance of studying distribution and its bearing

upon other problems ; in civil history he would draw maps
to illustrate either the conditions of a period or the spread
of a civilising nation. For instance, among sketches of the
sort which remain, I have one of the Hellenic world, marked

off in 2 5 -mile circles from Delos as centre ; and a similar
one for the Phoenician world, starting from Tyre. Sketch

maps of Palestine and Mesopotamia, with notes from the
best authorities on the geography of the two countries,
belong in all probability to the articles on " The Flood " and
" Hasisadra's Adventure." To realise clearly the size, position,
and relation of the parts to the whole, was the mechanical
instinct of the engineer which was so strong in him.

      The four articles which followed in quick succession on
" The Natural Inequality of Man," " Natural and Political
Rights," " Capital the Mother of Labour," and " Government,"
appeared in the January, February, March, and May numbers
of the Nineteenth Century, and, as was said above, are directed
against a priori reasoning in social philosophy. The first,

which appeared simultaneously with Mr. Herbert Spencer's
article on " Justice " in the Nineteenth Century, assails, on the
ground of fact and history, the dictum that men are born

free and equal, and have a natural right to freedom and

equality, so that property and political rights are a matter of
contract. History denies that they thus originated ; and, in
fact, " proclaim human equality as loudly as you like, Witless

248            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                              chap, xv

will serve his brother." Yet, in justice to Rousseau and the

influence he wielded, he adds :--

      It is not to be forgotten that what we call rational grounds for

our beliefs are often extremely irrational attempts to justify our

instincts.

      Thus in their plain and obvious sense, the doctrines which
               if,
                                            is

                                                             it
                                                                        is
Rousseau advanced are so easily upset,                                      probable that he had             if in

his mind something which different from that sense.

     When they sought speculative grounds to justify the
empirical truth

that is it     desirable, in the interests of society, that all men should
           is
be as free as possible, consistently with those interests, and that

they should all be equally                 tobousoncdialbyexitshteencee,thi"cathl eanpdhilolesgoaplheorbsl,i"
gations which are essential

as the fashion of speculators, scorned to remain on the safe

humble ground of experience, and preferred to prophesy from the

sublime cloudland of the a priori.

      The second of these articles an examination of Henry
                                           is is
George's doctrines as set forth in Progress and Poverty.

His relation to the physiocrats                   shown in a preliminary

analysis of the term "natural rights which have no wrongs,"

and are antecedent to morality, from which analysis are

drawn the results of confounding natural with moral rights.

      Here again            the note of justice to an argument in an
               it
unsound shape (p. 369): "There no greater mistake thanis
                                           a
                                              is

                                                               it
the hasty conclusion that opinions are worthless because

they are badly argued." And trifling abatement of the

universal and exclusive form of Henry George's principle

ompapyosmiteakeconclutrsuioen, sw--hitloe  even unamended                     may    lead to
                                                                            several   owner
                                           the justification of

ship in land as well as in any other form of property.
     The third essay of the series, " Capital the Mother of

Labour" (Coll. Ess. ix. 147), was an application of biological

methods to social problems, designed to show that the

extreme claims of labour as against capital are ill-founded.
     In the last article, " Government," he traces the two

extreme developments of absolute ethics, as shown in anarchy

and regimentation, or unrestrained individualism and com
pulsory socialism. The key to the position, of course, lies

1889 ESSAYS ON POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY 249

in the examination of the   hpisretomryisesshowupsonthawt h--ich  these  super

structures are raised, and

      So far from the preservation of liberty and property and the

securing of equal rights being the chief and most conspicuous object
aimed at by the archaic politics of which we know anything, it would
be a good deal nearer the truth to say that they were federated
absolute monarchies, the chief purpose of which was the maintenance
of an established church for the worship of the family ancestors.

      These articles stirred up critics of every sort and kind ;
socialists who denounced him as an individualist, land

nationalisers who had not realised the difference between

communal and national ownership, or men who denounced
him as an arm-chair cynic, careless of the poor and ignorant
of the meaning of labour. Mr. Spencer considered the chief
attack to be directed against his position ; the regimental

socialists as against theirs, and

as an attempt to justify those who, content with the present, are
opposed to all endeavours to bring about any fundamental change
in our social arrangements (ib. p. 423).

     So far from this, he continues :--

      Those who have had the patience to follow me to the end will,

I trust, have become aware that my aim has been altogether different.

Even the best of modern civilisations appears to me to exhibit a

condition of mankind which neither embodies any worthy ideal nor
Ieven possesses the merit of stability.
                                         do not hesitate to express
my opinion that, if there is no hope of a large improvement of the
condition of the greater part of the human family ; if it is true that

the increase of knowledge, the winning of a greater dominion over

Nature which is its consequence, and the wealth which follows upon

that dominion, are to make no difference in the extent and the

intensity of Want, with its concomitant physical and moral degrada

tion, among the masses of the people, I should hail the advent of

some kindly comet, which would sweep the whole affair away, as a

desirable consummation. What profits it to the human Prometheus

that he has stolen the fire of heaven to be his servant, and that the

spirits of the earth and of the air obey him, if the vulture of

pauperism is eternally to tear his very vitals and keep him on the
brink of destruction ?

    Assuredly, if I believed that any of the schemes hitherto pro

posed for bringing about social amelioration were likely to attain

their end, I should think what remains to me of life well spent in

-So

furthering it. But my interest in these questions did not begin the

day before yesterday ; and, whether right or wrong, it is no hasty
conclusion of mine that we have small chance of doing rightly in this

matter (or indeed in any other) unless we think rightly. Further,
that we shall never think rightly in politics until we have cleared

our minds of delusions, and more especially of the philosophical
Idelusions which, as
                        have endeavoured to show, have infested

political thought for centuries. My main purpose has been to con

tribute my mite towards this essential preliminary operation. Ground

must be cleared and levelled before a building can be properly com

menced ; the labour of the navvy is as necessary as that of the
architect, however much less honoured ; and it has been my humble

endeavour to grub up those old stumps of the a priori which stand

Iin the way of the very foundations of a sane political philosophy.

To those who think that questions of the kind have been discussing

have merely an academic interest, let me suggest once more that a

century ago Robespierre and St. Just proved that the way of

answering them may have extremely practical consequences.

     Without pretending to offer any off-hand solution for so

vast a problem, he suggests two points in conclusion. One,

that in considering the matter we should proceed from the

known to the unknown, and take warning from the results

of either extreme in self-government or the government of a
          othrbdeyerothhouemfr,atnhthinagetfsft--ohret t--hceednotorearsdl ernp, ootitnhttaetinsdi"sthttoeo
family ;                                                                                                     fact that the
natural                                                                                                       say, as un
                                                                                                             bring about
modified

what we understand as welfare." The population question

has first to be faced.

      The following letters cover the period up to the trip to

the Canaries, already alluded to :--

                           3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                           Jan. 6, 1890.

     My dear Foster-- That capital photograph reached me just as

I Iwe were going up to town (invited for the holidays by our parents),

and put it in my bag to remind me to write to you. Need say

that I brought it back again without having had the grace to send a
line of thanks? By way of making my peace, I have told the Fine

IArt Society to send you   a copy of the engraving      of my sweet self.
                           -- firstly, because it is a  hideous nuisance
   have not had it framed

to be obliged to hang a frame one may not like ; and secondly,

because by possibility you might like some other portrait better, in

                                            LETTERS                                                251

which case, if you will tell me, I will send that other. I should like

you to have something by way of reminder of T. H. H.

    IWhen Harry 1 has done his work at Bart's at the end of March

am going to give him a run before he settles down to practice.

Probably we shall go to the Canaries. I hear that the man who

k"nKoewnsnstmodsut   about them   is Dr. Guillemard, a Cambridge                                   man.
      With our      ihn wohl ? "                                                                   faith
                    united best    Perhaps          hyeoumiaglhl--t gEivveermyeoaurws rvinekrlye.
                                  wishes to                        T. H. Huxley.

fully,

                                                       Eastbourne, Jan. 13, 1890.
My dear Hooker -- . . . We missed you on the 2nd, though

you were quite right not to come in that beastly weather.

My boy Harry has had a very sharp attack of influenza at Bar

Itholomew's, and came down to us to convalesce a week ago, very
much pulled down.                hope you will keep clear of              it.
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                        a
H.'s work at the hospital                   I       over at the end of March, and
                                                is
before the influenza business was going to give him run for

month or six weeks before he settled down to practice. We shall

go to the Canaries as soona       ?  inOAnplyril4aJ sdapyoss'sisbelea.--    Are  you     minded
to take look at Teneriffe                                                 good   ships.
                                                                                         -- Ever
yours affectionately,                                                            Huxley.
                                                                   T. H.

However, Sir Hooker was unable to join " the excursion
                             J.

to the Isles of the Blest."

                                                               Eastbourne, Jan. 27, 1890.

    My dear Foster--People have been at me to publish my notice

of Darwin in P.R.S. in separate form.

    If you have no objection, will you apply to the Council for me
                                 a
                                         ?
for the requisite permission
      But you do see any objection,                    would rather not make the
I                                                   I

        if

          iIf
request.

        think       republish    !          will add the Times article of 1859

to it. Omega and Alpha              it

                                     I

weekH. o--peEveyrouyoaurres  flourishing. We        shall  be  up   for   a      fHewuxdlaeysy.next
                             very faithfully,
                                                                   T.     H.

                                                       Eastbourne, Jan. 31, 1890.

My dear Foster -- Mind you let me know what points you

think want expanding in the Darwin obituary when we meet.

We go to town on Tuesday for a few days, and will meet you
        4
                                                        1

                                                          I
Ifanywhere or anywhen you like. Could you come and dine with
us at p.m. on Thursday?                     so, please let me know at once, that

E. may kill the fatted calf.

                                  His younger son.

252           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY      chap, xv

     Harry has been and gone and done it. We heard he had gone

to Yorkshire, and were anxious, thinking that at the very least a

relapse after his influenza (which he had sharply) had occurred.
      But the complaint was one with more serious sequela still.

Don't know the young lady, but the youth has a wise head on his

Ishoulders, and though that did not prevent Solomon from overdoing

the business, have every faith in his choice.

      Dr. Guillemard has kindly sent me a lot of valuable information ;

but as I suggested to my boy yesterday, he may find Yorkshire air

more wholesome than that of the Canaries, and it is ten to one we
don't go after all. -- Ever yours,
                                            T. H. H.

                To his Younger Son

                                    Eastbourne, Jan. 30, 1890.

     You dear old humbug of a Boy-- Here we have been mourn

ing over the relapse of influenza, which alone, as we said, could have

torn you from your duties, and all the while it was nothing but an

attack of palpitation such as young people are liable to and seem

none the worse for after all. We are as happy that you are happy

as you can be yourself, though from your letter that seems saying
Ia great deal.
                am prepared to be the young lady's slave ; pray
Itell her that am a model father-in-law, with my love. (By the
Iway, you might mention her name ; it is a miserable detail, know,

but would be interesting.) Please add that she is humbly solicited

to grant leave of absence for the Teneriffe trip, unless she thinks

Northallerton air more invigorating. -- Ever your loving dad,

                                            T. H. Huxley.

     On April 3, accompanied by his son, he left London
on board the Aorangi. At Plymouth he had time to meet

his friend W. F. Collier, and to visit the Zoological Station,
while, " to my great satisfaction," he writes, " I received a
              of ' Capital the
revise (i.e.                    Mother of  Labour ') for the May
Nineteenth    Century -- from   Knowles.   They must have looked

sharp at the printing-office."

     It did not take him long to recover his sea-legs, and he

thoroughly enjoyed even the rougher days when the rolling

of the ship was too much for other people.  The day before

reaching Teneriffe he writes :--

    I have not felt so well for a long time. I do nothing, have a
Iprodigious appetite, and Harry declares am getting fat in the face.

                          THE CANARIES                                          *S3

Santa Cruz was reached early on April 10, and in the

afternoon he proceeded to Laguna, which he made his

headquarters for a week. That day he walked 10 miles,

the next 15, and the third 20 in the course of the day.

He notes finding the characteristic Euphorbia and Heaths

of the Canaries ; notes,  too, one or two visitations   of dyspepsia
from indigestible food.      He writes from Laguna
                                                        :--

From all that people with whom we meet tell me, I gather that

the usual massive lies about health resorts pervade the accounts of
                                                                                and I
Teneriffe.    Santa Cruz  wworosuel--d rsetdifulinceg.  me to jelly in a week,
hear that   Orotava is                                     Guimar, whither we   go to

-morrow, is warranted to be dry and everlasting sunshine.                       We

...shall see. One of the people staying in the house said they had
rain there for a fortnight together.                    I am all right now, and
Iwalked some 15 miles up hill and down dale to-day, and
                                                                                am
Inot more than comfortably tired. However, am not going to try
Ithe peak.
            find it cannot be done without a night out at a con

Isiderable height when the thermometer commonly goes down below

freezing, and am not going to run that risk for the chance of

seeing even the famous shadows.

      By some mischance, no letters from home reached him
till the 26th, and he writes from Guimar on the 23rd : --

A lady who lives here told me yesterday that a post-mistress at

one place was in the habit of taking off the stamps and turning the

letters on one side ! But that luckily is not a particular dodge with

ours.

     We drove over here on the 17 th. It is a very picturesque
place 1000 feet up in the midst of a great amphitheatre of high

hills, facing north, orange-trees laden with fruit, date palms and

Ibananas are in the garden, and there is lovely sunshine all day long.

Altogether the climate is far the best have found anywhere here,
and the house, which is that of a Spanish Marquesa, only opened
                                                        I am sitting with the
as a hotel this winter, is very comfortable.

window wide open at nine o'clock at night, and the stars flash as if

the sky were Australian.

      On Saturday we had a splendid excursion up to the top of the
pass that leads from here up to the other side of the island. Road

in the proper sense there was none, and the track incredibly bad,

worse than any Alpine path owing to the loose irregular stones.

The mules, however, pick their way like cats, and you have only to
hold on. The pass is 6000 feet high, and we ascended still higher.

Fortune favoured us. It was a lovely day and the clouds lay in a

254  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, xv

great sheet a thousand feet below. The peak, clear in the blue sky,
rose up bare and majestic 5000 feet out of as desolate a desert
clothed with the stiff retama shrubs (a sort of broom) as you can
well imagine. It took us three hours and a half to get up, passing
for a good deal of the time through a kind of low brush of white
and red cistuses in full bloom. We saw Palma on one side, and
Grand Canary on the other, beyond the layer of clouds which
enveloped all the lower part of the island. Coming down was
worse than going up, and we walked a good part of the way, getting
back about six. About seven hours in the saddle and walking.

     You never saw anything like the improvement in Harry. He is
burnt deep red ; he says my nose is of the same hue, and at the end
of the journey he raced Gurilio, our guide, who understands no word
of English any more than we do Spanish, but we are quite intimate

nevertheless.*

      He reiterates his distress at not getting letters from his
wife : " Certainly I will never run the risk of being so long

without -- never again." When, after all, the delayed letters

reached him on his way back from the expedition to the

Caftadas, thanks to a traveller who brought                them   up      from

Laguna, he writes (April 24) :--

    ICatch me going outof

horribly anxious. Nobody--
                                reach of    letters again.  --      have    been
                               children or  any one else        can be    to me

what you are. Ulysses preferred his old woman to immortality, and

this absence has led me to see that he was as wise in that as in

other things. . . .

     Here is a novel description of an hotel at Puerto

Orotava :--

    It is very pretty to look at, but all draughts. I compare it to

the air of a big wash-house with all the doors open, and it was agreed

that the likeness was exact.

     I have no account of the visit to the Cafiadas, " the one

thing worth seeing there." But on May 2 he sailed for
                                                    " ten         younger "
Madeira by the       German,   feeling  already            years
for his holiday.       On the   3rd he   writes :  --

     * My brother indeed averred that his language of signs was far more effectual
than the Spanish, which my father persisted in trying upon the inhabitants.
This guide, by the way, was very sceptical as to any Englishman being equal to
walking the seventeen miles, much less beating him in a race over the stony
track. His experience was entirely limited to invalids.

                                     THE CANARIES                             255

    IThe                                               was in 1846. All my life lies

between                                                twenty-one and a half, and I
            last time was in this             place
                                              then
            the two visits. I was

Ishall be sixty-five to-morrow. The place looks to me to have grown

a good deal, but believe it is chiefly English residents whose villas

dot the hill. There were no woods forty-four years ago. Now there

is one, I am told, to Camera do Lobos nearly five miles long. That

is the measure of Portuguese progress in half a century. Moreover,

the men have left off wearing their pigtail caps and the women their

hoods.

                        To his Youngest Daughter

                                              Bella Vista Hotel, Funchal,

                                                                May 6, 1890.

     Dearest Babs --This comes wishing you many happy returns
of the day, though a little late in the arrival. Harry sends his love,

and desires me to say that he took care to write a letter which should

arrive in time, but unfortunately forgot to mention the birthday in
Iit ! So I think, on the whole,               have the pull of him. We ought
Ito be back about the 18th or 19th, as have put my name down for

places in the Conway Castle, which is to call here on the 1 2th, and

I do not suppose she will be full. In the meanwhile, we shall fill up
the time by a trip to the other side of the island, on which we start
to-morrow morning at 7.30. You have to take your own provisions

and rugs to sleep upon and under, as the fleas la bas are said to be

unusually fine and active. We start quite a procession with a couple
                            two men (owners of the nags) to carry the
of horses,  a guide, and     that before to-morrow night we shall have
baggage ;
            and I suspect

made acquaintance with some remarkably bad apologies for roads.

But the horses here seem to prefer going up bad staircases at speed
(with a man hanging on by the tail to steer), and if you only stick
Ito them they land you all right.             have developed so much prowess
Iin this line that think of coming out in the character of Buffalo
Bill on my return. Hands and face of both of us are done to a

good burnt sienna, and a few hours more or less in the saddle don't
Icount.     do not think either of us have been so well for years.
You will have heard of our doings in Teneriffe from M
                                                                              . The

ICahadas there          is  the one   thing   worth    seeing,  fraalutodg--ethaelwr ayusniqeuxec.eptinAgs
aGuhiemaaltrh--reasnodrt    should   say the    place    is a

                        that, excellent for people in good health, is wholly

unfit for a real invalid, who must either go uphill or downhill over

the worst of roads if he leaves the hotel.
   The air here is like that of South Devon at its best -- very soft,

but not stifling as at Orotava.       We had a capital expedition yester
                                     ancient volcanic crater in the middle
day to the Grand Corral -- the

of the island with walls some 3000 feet high all scarred and furrowed

2S6               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                       chap, xv

Iby ravines, and overgrown with rich vegetation. There is a little
village at the bottom of it which                should esteem as a retreat if I
Iwished to be out of sight and hearing of the pomps and vanities of

this world. By the way, have been pretty well out of hearing of
                       for only had three letters from M
everything as itby                                                       while we
                         is,

                           I
were in Teneriffe, and not one here up to this date. After had
                                                             is I
made all my arrangements to start to-morrow                                   aIheard that          mail

would be in at noon. So the letters will have to follow us in the

afternoon         one of the men, who will wait for them.

     We went to-day to lunch with Mr. Blandy, the head of the

principal shipping agency here, whose wife                       the daughter of my

successor at the Fishery Office.                 has called upon me. What

an effusive bore he           But believe he was very kind to poor
                        is

                           !

                                 I

Clifford, and restrained my unregenerate impatience of that kind

of creature.

     Well, our trip has done us both world of good but am
                                                 a

                                                                   I;
                                                                        I
getting homesick, and shall rejoice to be back again.                    hope that

Joyce    a is  flourishing, and Jack satisfied with the hanging of his

pictures,    and that    millionaire has         insisted    on   buying the picture                and
adding        bonus.   Our best love to          you all.        Ever your loving
                       a                                     --
                                   's
                                             8)                          Pater.

     Don't know M             whereabouts. But                   she     --witwhithyomu,y           say
                                                                 to-day                              love
wrote her long screed (No.                       and posted  it if
a
               a                                                          is

                                                                                       I

as model husband and complete letter-writer.

     On returning home he found that the Linnean medal

had been awarded him.

                                                             Marlborough Place,
                                                 a'
                                                                  4May   1890.

     My dear Hooker -- How's                                             ?
                                                                                            1
                                                                                                8,

                                                                             I
                                                 wi' you         My boy and came

back from Madeira yesterday in great feather. As                      sfotrretmchys--elfb, urrindiinngg
about on mules, or horses, for six to ten hours at a
                                                                      breakneck roads
in sun or soaking in rain -- over the most entirely

and tracts have ever    made acquaintance                    with, except perhaps in
                                most excellent                 tonic, cathartic, and
Morocco -- has proved
I                       a
      I                         a
alterative all in one. Existence of heart and stomach are matters

of faith, not of knowledge, with me at present.                       hope may last,
                                                                 I

                                                                                it
                                                                                             is
and have had such sickener of invalidism that my intention to

keep severely out of all imprudences.

     But what           man to do his friends take advantage of his
                  is                  if

absence, and go     Ia giving him gold medals behind his back? That
                                                 in this nefarious plot-- mine own
you have been          an accomplice              and trust -- not to be denied.
familiar friend
                  whom  I     trusted                        is
                                                                  is
Well,  it      very pleasant to have toil that now all ancient history
           is

remembered, and shall go to the meeting and the dinner and make


                                                                                                                                                 ;ii:i

                   ·    .                       ·                                        :1 ,                        -     '        ;            . i.
.                                            .                          ··                          .                                   i. *. 1
                                                                                                        '..''.·.           ri. mi-,          ;i  ;c--
                      .·
                                                      i                                                                      .·,i *n
                                                           ·
                                                                            i'
                                                                     »           \"

                                                                                     '.
                                                      ;i.-.,..·..··i.',.mi :i-..·.,
                                                                                                                                          c1
                                                                                                                                    i

                                                                                                                                            :.
                                                                                                                                                   .1
                                                                                                                                                     ·

                                                                                                                        I:: Vx

                                                      1                     · (oi ]'.'i'-..                                             1
                                                                 i1         1\                                                             ·
                                                                    .                                                                          , '1
                                                                                 1                                                                      ·
                                                                                                               i..'u.i.i ii. .1 ,r               ,.

                                                                            iV*· J" ,'\1iri                                                      .,·
                                                      .                                                                          -i 1
                                                                       .                                                            i
                                                      r».-i·-·                                                     M.:r\                    I
                                                                                                                                                          ·
                                                      1nl                                      ·.                         .:::!   .'OIJ

                                                                                   p- '.(I'M                                      .a j'j eitj
                                                      ·...';,i,..'.!i..                  :
                                                                                            1

                                                                                                 f, >

                                                                                                                  1
                                                                  1                  [,··  U:i                 U:\- .ii.j m.I .              ii  piu'
                                                                                     .'                         J- IOA ^'.!\(.;
                                                                                                          I'l              J

                                                                                                                                 ;!'.,·,{

                                                                  ' 1J|                    :                  O-i- .-'            i
                                                                                                                                                   .<·
                                                                  ... :,-!>-.,';            Jl j;                                                   ]
                                                      1                                                                                 'P'
                                                           <
                                                                            J                                 --<i:p-.'l Ii".*
                                                                                     1
                                                      :           . ,1.1 v. .j.ijij
                                                          .

                        ,                                                                V" DM}                    j       .i(!, ·i ii
                                        ·                                                                                        \

                                                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                          ;v  .!'\ '.i.':ii-". H
                                                                                         r

                                                      .                                        ,              ;    ':      am puv .hub?
                                                                            ·                                              'i
                                                        .j                                                             i.
                                                            ,· .                                                »v                        [
                                                                            :                                 'i' "      tpJ::;ujs'.;--.i'.(^.S.mi'.tijnitia)
                                                                                  .
                                                                                 ·ju'i\;
                                                                            ii.:im -.3                                   ..jOu>rcii- .i sin

                                                                                         .m 'i;; iiii.ix?
                                                                                         :                                                       :n
                                                                                             .·
                                                                            A mm..                        .-il'.U'i ·' i.-'-,u '.'!: bUi:
                                                                            1
                                                                               if
   ·' -                                                           - jo u". p.u .i0i. i..                                                oii'i.i s.
-O                                                                                                             j
                                                                                                                       '
                        '                                         .in: ;c :-i^il iir ' .vloi< ii .\r\i \si:i
                                                                  .. .. .j-:]
:                                               ·                                        i                ww, .(in i.opuo.ui »-                  ;
  i,:                                                                                       i                                                       ,

       i                                                                    Si-: S' r>i:) \pu                                                10 i-u\
          i.                                                                                                               -V';i c L !
     .*                                                           ' -".psi'i P'-Ji'l-''!
                                                                        J. "u:i .nonrmi i:ij(i -- .nirm i!i\ci
po* i -                                            ,

".ii ii                 ..      · ,·                  · ' p"v ,-:ui -- -i                                                  oj iiq p.v.ujp
\\ i.i                                     .          if jy' i.ii u\i :.f \tou ;,c
j v. ,                  i'                                                                                                              J .·.         ·'
                            ;i..·; i-
                                                                            : S^'i?.. puv .hi, ..":urn 'i



1889 RETURN FROM THE CANARIES                                                        257

my speech in spite of as many possible devils of dyspepsia as there

are plates and dishes on the table.

We were lucky in getting in for nothing worse than heavy rolling,

either out or in. Teneriffe is well worth seeing. The Canadas is

something quite by itself, a bit of Egypt 6000 feet up with a bare

volcanic cone, or rather long barrow sticking up 6000 feet in the

middle of it.                                       I rode across from
      Otherwise, Madeira is vastly superior.

IFunchal to Sao Vicente, up to Paul da Serra, then along the coast
to Santa Anna, and back from Sta. Anna to Funchal.                        have seen

nothing comparable except in Mauritius, nor anything anywhere like

the road by the cliffs from Sao Vicente to Sta. Anna. Lucky for
me that my ancient nautical habit of sticking on to a horse came

back. A good deal of the road is like a bad staircase, with no

particular banisters, and a well of 1000 feet with the sea at the
Ibottom. Your heart would rejoice over the great heaths.
                                                                                     saw

one, the bole of which split into nearly equal trunks ; and one of

these was just a metre in circumference, and had a head as big as a

moderate-sized ash. Gorse in full flower, up to 12 or 15 feet high.
On the whole a singular absence of flowering herbs except Cinerarias
and, especially in Teneriffe, Echium. I did not chance to see a
IEuphorbia in Madeira, though                       believe there are some. In

Teneriffe they are everywhere in queer shapes, and there was a

thing that mimicked the commonest Euphorbia but had no milk,

which I will ask you about when I see you. The Euphorbias were

all in flower,  sbcurtawtl.hi--s Etvheinrgyohuards  none. But        you  will have  had
enough of my                                        affectionately,

                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

VOL. II                                                                   s

                     CHAPTER XVI

                               1 890-91

Three letters of the first half of the year may conveniently

be placed here. The first is to Tyndall, who had just been
delivering an anti-Gladstonian speech at Belfast. The

opening reference must be to some newspaper paragraph

which I have not been able to trace, just as the second is to

a paragraph in 1876, not long after Tyndall's marriage, which
described Huxley as starting for America with his titled

bride.

                               3 Jevington Gardens, Eastbourne,
                                                       Feb. 24, 1890.
              Tyndall --Put down
     My dear                                       tEheverthrseiencehaltfh-peint"stiatlnedd  the two
              partnership account.                                                            bride "
dozen to the
Ibusiness
Iyou and   have given up the struggle against the popular belief that
           constitute a firm.

      It's very hard on me in the decline of life to have a lively young
partner who thinks nothing of rushing six or seven hundred miles to
perform a war-dance on the sainted G.O.M., and takes the scalp of

Historicus as a hors d'auvre.

      All of which doubtless goes down to my account just as my poor

innocent articles confer a reputation for long-suffering mildness on

you.

      Well ! well !  --theErveerisyonuors,justice  in  this  world ! With our best
       to you both                                              T. H. Huxley.
love

      (The confusion in the popular mind continued steadily,
so that at last, when Tyndall died, Huxley received the
doubtful honour of a funeral sermon.)

      Dr. Pelseneer, to whom the next letter is addressed, is a

Belgian morphologist, and an authority upon the Mollusca.
He it was who afterwards completed Huxley's unfinished

memoir on Spirula for the Challenger report.

1890 AFFINITIES OF THE MOLLUSC A                                                                                                                    359

                                                                    4 Marlborough Place,
                                                                          June 10, 1890.

Dear Dr. Pelseneer -- I gave directions yesterday for the

Ipacking up and sending to your address of the specimens of Trigonia,

and trust that they will reach you safely.
I Iam rejoiced that you are about to take up the subject.
                                                                                                                                                    was
I Ibut a beginner when worked at Trigonia, and had always pro
mised myself that I would try to make good the many deficiencies of

my little sketch. But three or four years ago my health gave way
Icompletely, and though
                         have recovered (no less to my own
Iastonishment than to that of the doctors) am compelled to live out
of London and to abstain from all work which involves much labour.
    IThus science has

much about a difficult
                      gmotorspohofalor gaichaeladqueosftiomne--thaaltl     hesitate                                                                 to say
                                                                        the more,                                                                   as old

men like myself should be on their guard against overmuch tender
                                  And I am conscious of a great
ness for their own speculations.

t"enMdoerrpnehsoslogyforofththoeseCecpohnatlaoiunsedMoilnlusmcay."  ancient memoir                                                                  on the
                                                                                                                                                    entirely
                                                                      Certainly I am
                                                                                                                                                    Lamelli
dCbrihsapintoocshnesd--setposrpinaeggcriaeleflyrowmbityhaayohcuoymptohmtahotenttichareol oGtC--ahsittnoeenraorwplyoitdh sreopnarenedsesnhtteheleld
                                                                                                                                                       by the
                                                                                                                                                    plate.
I always thought Nucula the key to the Lamellibranchs, and I

Iam very g--lad  you  have come to that conclusion on such much                                                                                     better
                 am,  dear Dr. Pelseneer, yours very faithfully,
evidence.

                                                                    T. H. Huxley.

     Towards the end of June he went for a week to
Salisbury, taking long walks in the neighbourhood, and
exploring the town and cathedral, which he confessed him
self ashamed never to have seen before.

      He characteristically fixes its date in his memory by
noting that the main part of it was completed when Dante

was a year old.

                                  The White Hart, Salisbury,
                                             June 22, 1890.

     My dear Donnelly -- Couldn't stand                             any more London,                                                                 so
                                                                    shall probably stop                                                             for
Ibolted here yesterday morning, and here

the next few days.
I have been trying any time the last thirty years to see Stone
Ihenge, and this time mean to do
                                  it.                               should have gone to-day,

                                     I

but the weather was not promising, so spent my Sunday morning
                                  I

26o

Iin Old Sarum -- that blessed old tumulus with nine (or was it eleven ?)

burgesses that used to send two members to Parliament when was
a child. Really you Radicals are of some use after all !

     Poor old Smyth's 1 death is just what I expected, though 1 did

not think the catastrophe was so imminent.
      Peace be with him ; he never did justice to his very considerable

abilities, but he was a good fellow and a fine old crusted Con
servative.

    I suppose it will be necessary to declare the vacancy and put

somebody in his place before long.

    II learned before started that Smyth was to be buried in Corn

wall, so there is no question of attending at his funeral.

    I am the last of the original Jermyn Street gang left in the

school now -- Ultimus Romanorum !-- Ever yours very faithfully,
                                                              T. H. Huxley.

This trip was taken by way of a holiday after the writing

of an article, which appeared in the Nineteenth Century
for July 1890. It was called "The Lights of the Church
and the Light of Science," and may be considered as written

in fulfilment of the plan spoken of in the letter to Mr.

Clodd (p. 245).  Its subject was the necessary depend

ence of Christian theology upon the historical accuracy of

the Old Testament ; its occasion, the publication of a sermon
in which, as a counterblast to Lux Mundi, Canon Liddon

declared that accuracy to be sanctioned by the use made

of the Old Testament by Jesus Christ, and bade his hearers
close their ears against any suggestions impairing the credit

of those Jewish Scriptures which have received the stamp of
his Divine authority.

Pointing out that, as in other branches of history, so here

the historical accuracy of early tradition was abandoned even

by conservative critics, who at all understood the nature of

the problems involved, Huxley proceeded to examine the

story of the Flood, and     ttoheshorewcotnhcailtertshe--daifsficaulptaierstiawl ertehalnittlaes

less in treating it-- like

a universal deluge. Then he discussed the origin of the
story, and criticised the attempt of the essayist in Lux

     1 Warington Wilkinson Smyth (181 7-1890), the geologist and mineralogist.
In 1851 he was appointed Lecturer on Mining and Mineralogy at the Royal
School of Mines. After the lectureships were separated in 1881, he retained the
former until his death. He was knighted in 1887.

1890 BABBAGES CALCULATING MACHINE                                               261

Mundi to treat this and similar stories as "types," which
must be valueless if typical of no underlying reality. These
things are of moment in speculative thought, for if Adam be
not an historical character, if the story of the Fall be but a

type, the basis of Pauline theology is shaken ; they are of

moment practically, for it is the story of the Creation which

is referred to in the "speech (Matt. xix. 5) unhappily famous
for the legal oppression to which it has been wrongfully

forced to lend itself" in the marriage laws.
     In July 1890, Sir J. G. T. Sinclair wrote to him, calling

his attention to a statement of Babbage's that after a certain

point his famous calculating machine, contrary to all expecta

tion, suddenly introduced a new principle of numeration into

a series of numbers,* and asking what effect this phenomenon

hfoaldlowuspo:--n the theory of Induction.                       Huxley replied as

    Dear Sir -- I knew Mr. Babbage,                   Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,
                                                               Julv 21, 1890.
not the man to say anything on the
which he could not justify.                          and am quite sure that he was
                                                     topic of calculating machines

1 Extract from Babbage's Ninth Bridgewater Treatise.

Babbage shows that a calculating machine can be constructed which, after

working in a correct and orderly manner up to 100,000,000, then leaps, and
                                chain of numbers
i"nsTtehaed  of continuing the   at first to govern  unbroken,   goes at once   to 100,010,002.
             law which seemed                        the series  failed at the  hundred million

and second term.  This term is larger than we expected by 10,000.               The law
thus changes --

                  100,000,001                        100,100,005

                  100.010.002                        100,150,006

                  100.030.003                        100,210,007

                  100.060.004                        100,280,008.

For a hundred or even a thousand terms they continued to follow the new law

relating to the triangular numbers, but after watching them for 2761 terms we

Iffind that this law fails at the 2762nd term.
          we continue to observe we shall discover another law then coming into

action which also is different, dependent, but in a different manner, on triangular
             because a number of
numbers      of a triangle, thus --  points  agreeing with their term may be placed in
the form

                                                                                        (one, three, six, ten).
This will continue through about 1430 terms, when a new law is again introduced
over about 950 terms, and this too, like its predecessors, fails and gives place to
other laws which appear at different intervals."

262                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xvi

     I do not see that what he says affects the philosophy of induction
                                            No induction, however broad its
casonrfiegrhtclyertuanindtyer--stoiond.the  strict sense of the word. The           basis, can
                                                                                   experience

of the whole human race through innumerable years has shown that

stones unsupported fall to the ground, but that does not make it

certain that any day next week unsupported stones will not move
the other way. All that it does justify is the very strong expectation,

which hitherto has been invariably verified, that they will do just the

contrary.                certainty          is possible           to man -- namely,  that at
      Only one absolute

any given moment the feeling which he has exists.

    All other so-called certainties are beliefs of greater or less

Iintensity.

      Do not suppose that am following Abernethy's famous prescrip

tion, "take my pills," if I refer you to an essay of mine on

" Descartes," and a little book on Hume, for the fuller discussion of

these points. Hume's argument against miracles turns altogether

on the fallacy that induction can give certainty in the strict sense.

              mortals have to be content with                          hope and belief in all

              and present --our sole certainty                         is momentary. -- am
    IWe poor
        past
matters
                                                                       T. H. Huxley.
yours faithfully,

     Sir J. G. T. Sinclair, Bart.

     Except for a last visit to London to pack his books,

which proved a heavier undertaking than he had reckoned

upon, Huxley did not leave Eastbourne this autumn, refusing

Sir J.  Donnelly's   hospitable               invitation to stay          with       him  in
         during the   move, of              which he exclaims
Surrey                                                                   :--

    Thank Heaven that is my last move -- except to a still smaller

residence of a subterranean character !

                                                          Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                                                                           Sept. 19, 1890.

     My dear Donnelly -- And my books--and watch-dog business

generally ?

     How is that to be transacted whether as in-patient or outpatient
at Firdale ? Much hospitality hath made thee mad.

     Seriously, it's not to be done nohow. What between papers that

don't come, and     profligate              bracket       manufacturers  --wahnod  keep you
waiting for months   and then               send the       wrong things
                                                                                   warognegn--erailt
tendency of everybody     to                 do nothing   right   or   something
is as much as the two    of                               to get  in,  and all in  the course
                                            us will do--

of the next three weeks.

     Of course my wife has no business to go to London to superin

1890 MOVES FROM LONDON                                                                                    263

tend the packing--but I should like to see anybody stop her.

However, she has got the faithful Minnie to do the actual work ; and

willswears by all her Gods and Goddesses she will only direct.
     It        only make her unhappy if I            d--id    not           make pretend                  to
                                                            Tout              vous,
believe,  and  hope no harm may come of
                                       a
                                                             it.T. H. Huxley.
                                                                           d
      Another discussion which sprang up in the Times, upon
Medical Education, evoked letter from him (Times, Augustis

7), urging that the preliminary training ought to be muchis
more thorough and exact. The student at his first coming

   so completely habituated to learn only from books or oral
teaching, that the attempt to learn from things and to get

his knowledge at first hand something new and strange.
Thus a large proportion of medical students spend much of
their first year in learning how to learn, and when they
have done that, in acquiring the preliminary scientific know
ledge, with which, under any rational system of education,

they would have come provided.
      He urged, too, that they should have received proper

literary education instead of sham acquaintance with Latin,

and insisted, as he had so often done, on the literary wealth

of their own language.
                                       a
                                                a

                                                                           a

                                                                                                       :

                                                                                               a
    Every one has his own ideas of what liberal education

ought to include, and                  correspondent wrote to ask him,

among other     things,                whether he    did not think              the                       higher
mathematics    ought to                be included.     He replied
                                                                              --

                                                     Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                                                 Aug. 16, 1890.

    think mathematical training highly desirable, but advanced
a
mathematics, am afraid, would be too great burden in proportion
   II                                               a
             ?I                                                    is
to its utility, to the ordinary student.                                a

                                                                                     it
                                                                                           a is
                                                                                                                     a
    fully agree with you that the incapacity of teachers the weak

point in the London schools. But what                       to be expected when

    man accepts a lectureship in                    medical school simply as

grappling-iron by which he may hold on until he gets hospital

appointment

untilMtehdeic"aIlnsetdituuctaetsioonf  in London    will never be what ought to be,
                                       Medicine,"
in only two or three                                asinthsteitSuctiootncsh--cawllhitlheemt,hearehotasupgithatl
                                        well-found

264                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                  CHAP. XVI

schools are confined to the teaching of practical medicine, surgery,
obstetrics, and so on.

      The following letters illustrate Huxley's keenness to
correct any misrepresentation of his opinions from a weighty
source, and the way in which, without abating his just claims,

he could make the peace gracefully.
      In October Dr. Abbott delivered an address on " Illusions,"

in which, without, of course, mentioning names, he drew an

unmistakable picture of Huxley as a thorough pessimist. A

very brief report appeared in the Times of October 9, together
with a leading article upon the subject. Huxley thereupon

wrote to the Times a letter which throws light both upon his

early days and his later opinions :--

     The article on " Illusions " in the Times of to-day induces me to

notice the remarkable exemplification of them to which you have

drawn public attention. The Rev. Dr. Abbott has pointed the moral

of his discourse by a reference to a living man, the delicacy of which
will be widely and justly appreciated. I have reason to believe that
I am acquainted                                                                                            I
                           with       mthyisselfpehrissonb,estsofmrieenwdh--at    intimately,      though
can by no means            call                                                 far from
     I
                  I

                                                                     ;

                                                                                              it.
    If am right,                    can affirm that   htehiswaspoborroufgehlltowupd"idatnontineestecaepne,
                                  school in which
from the " narrow

but more than two years               later and, as he pursued                  "hifsrusittufudliesconin
London, perhaps he had                as much opportunities for

verse with friends and equals," to say nothing of superiors, as he

would have enjoyed elsewhere.

     Moreover, whether the naval officers with whom he consorted

were book-learned or not, they were emphatically men, trained to

face realities and to have wholesome contempt for mere talkers.
                                  I
                                                a
                                                   a
Any one of them was worth wilderness of phrase-crammed under

graduates. Indeed, have heard my misguided acquaintance declare

that he regards his four years' training under the hard conditions

and the sharp discipline of his cruise as an education of inestimable

value.                            " keen-witted

      As to  "bheoinrgridis       example " has       pessimist out and out," the Rev.                     D--r.
Abbott's                       a                      shown me the following sentence              :
" Pessimism as little consonant with the facts of sentient existence
                                                                                                       a
"asInodputsimtriisaml ."DevHeleopmsayesnt,h"e   published  it   in 1888, in an article on
                                               to be seen    in the Nineteenth Century.

But no doubt this another illusion. No superior person, broughtis

up "in the Universities," to boot, could possibly have invented

myth so circumstantial.

1890 DR. ABBOTT ON ILLUSIONS                                                                        265

     The end of the correspondence was quite amicable.
Dr. Abbott explained that he had taken his facts from the
recently published "Autobiography," and that the reporters

hInadawsoencdonedrfullelyttear lte(Treimd ews,haOtchtoebreerall1y1s)aiHdubxylelyargseayosm:i--ssions.

I am much obliged to Dr. Abbott for his courteous explanation.
Irepmorytesreslf--haovfe
                            suffered  so many things at                  the    hands  thoefirso"  many
                          whom it                                       said    that               faith,
                                      mfaalyselytootruoefte" n--tbheat
Iunfaithful, makes them                                                 can fully enter into

what his feelings must have been when he contemplated the picture

of his discourse, in which the lights on "raw midshipmen," "pessi
mist out and out," "devil take the hindmost," and "Heine's

dragoon," were so high, while the "good things" he was kind

enough to say about me lay in the deep shadow of the invisible.

And I can assure Dr. Abbott that I should not have dreamed of
Inoticing the report of his interesting lecture, which read when it

appeared, had it not been made the subject of the leading article

which drew the attention of all the world to it on the following

Iday.

         was well aware that Dr. Abbott must have founded his remarks
on the brief notice of my life which (without my knowledge) has

Ibeen thrust into its present ridiculous position among biographies of

eminent musicians ; and most undoubtedly anything have said

Ithere is public property. But erroneous suppositions imaginatively
connected with what                   have said appear to me to stand upon a

different footing, especially when they are interspersed with remarks
                                                                        "raw midshipmen and
                                                               of the    speaks, in terms which
                                                               Abbott
Iinjurious to my

unlearned naval
                          eoafrfliycerfsrie"ndosf.       Some
                                                    whom Dr.

he certainly did not find in my "autobiography," are, am glad to

say, still alive, and are performing, or have performed, valuable
services to their country. I wonder what Dr. Abbott would think,
                             if his youthful University friends
a"nrdawpecruhraaptess  say,                                                     were spoken         of as
                        and   unlearned country squires."

When David Hume's housemaid was wroth because somebody
Icrehmalakrekeddu, p--"
                       St. David's " on             his house, the  philosopher        is  said to  have
                       " Never mind,                lassie, better   men than               have    been

made saints            of before      now."         And,       perhaps, if      I had recollected
that " better          men than                      been
                                      I have                   made texts        of before now," a

slight flavour of wrath which may be perceptible would have vanished
Iffrom my first letter.
                     I beg him to      Dr. Abbott              h"asouftouanndd  any    phrase of mine
t"ooHesitnreon'sg,                    set it against                             out   pessimist " and
                    dragoon," and     let us cry quits. He is                   the   last person with
Iwhom should wish to quarrel.

Two interesting criticisms of books follow ; one The

266                        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                        CHAP. XVI

First Three Gospels, by the Rev. Estlin Carpenter ; the other
on Use and Disuse, directed against the doctrine of use-

inheritance, by Mr. Piatt Ball, who not only sent the book

but appealed to him for advice as to his future course in
undertaking a larger work on the evolution of man.

                                                           Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,
                                                                    Oct. n, 1890.

    My dear Mr. Carpenter--Accept my best thanks for The

First Three Gospels, which strikes me as an admirable exposition
of the case, full, clear, and calm. Indeed the latter quality gives it
here and there a touch of humour. You say the most damaging

things in a way so gentle that the orthodox reader must feel like the

eels who were skinned by the fair Molly -- lost between pain and

admiration.

     I am certainly glad to see that the book has reached a second

edition ; it will do yeoman's service to the cause of right reason.
     IA quondam friend of
proofs, and                sometimes  mine   was           in the  "hnaobit obojfecsetinodningexcmepet                                                     his
the whole " ;  and I am               wrote  on            them                          I                                                                  to
to say comes                                                                             I
               to pretty    afraid     that you            will    t--hinatk     what       am                                                             about
                           much       the same             thing                            am                                                              right
                                                                               least if

in the supposition that a passage in your first preface (p. vii.) states
your fundamental position, and that you conceive that when

cqthrueiaticpnisoemnrs--ohnoaasflittdyhoenoeefvoJietlsusutisuotntewroamfsoCsththreistthlieaearneditiynsgtfirlcloamuresmeJu--adinastihseme.cvoidnednitcieo  that
                                                                                                                                                           sine

     I long thought so, and having a strong dislike to belittle the
I Iheroic figures of history, held by the notion as long as could, but
I find it melting away.
   I cannot
               is          seneewth--atonthethemoortahler  and religious ideal             of                                                               early
Christianity                                                hand, it seems to                                                                              to be
                                                                                         me

implicitly and explicitly contained in the early prophetic Judaism
and the later Hellenised Judaism ; and though it is quite true that
the new vitality of the old ideal manifested in early Christianity

demands "an adequate historic cause," I would suggest that the
word "cause" may mislead if it is not carefully defined.

betwMeeendic"ael xpchitiilnogso"phanyddr"awprsedaismpoossitnguse"fulcaaunsdes  necessary distinction

                                                                               -- and nowhere is it
more needful to keep this distinction in mind than in history -- and

especially in estimating    the action                      of individuals on the course of
human affairs. Platonic    and Stoical
                                                           philosophy -- prophetic liberalism
-- the strong democratic socialism of the Jewish political system --
tphuerpoesxeisst--enchead  of innumerable sodalities for religious                       and social
                            thrown the ancient world into a state                        of unstable

equilibrium. With such predisposing causes at work, the exciting

1890 USE AND DISUSE                                                      267

cause of enormous  --cahancgheilsd  might   be relatively insignificant. The
powder was there                     might   throw the match which should

blow up the whole concern.

    I do not want to seem irreverent, still less depreciatory, of noble

men, but it strikes me that in the present case the Nazarenes were

the match and Paul the child.

     An ingrained habit of trying to explain the unknown by the
known leads me to find the key to Nazarenism in Quakerism. It is
impossible to read the early history of the Friends without seeing

that George Fox was a person who exerted extraordinary influence

over the men with whom he came in contact ; and it is equally

impossible (at least for me) to discover in his copious remains an

original thought.
     Yet what with the corruption of the Stuarts, the Phariseeism of

the Puritans, and the Sadduceeism of the Church, England was in

such a state, that before his death he had gathered about him a vast
body of devoted followers, whose patient endurance of persecution

is a marvel. Moreover, the Quakers have exercised a      prodigious
influence on later English life.                           You will

    IBut have scribbled a great deal too much already.
Isee what mean.

                   To Mr. W. Platt Ball

                                            Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                                       Oct. 27, 1890.

Dear Sir --I have been through your book, which has greatly
interested me, at a hand-gallop ; and I have by no means given it
Ithe attention it deserves. But the day after to-morrow shall be
Igoing

settle
 into           a new house here, and        it may    be some time before
down                                        prefer to  seem hasty, rather than
                to work in it -- so that I

indifferent to your book and still more to your letter.                  I have to

offerA--s itno   the book, in the first place.   The only criticism       pp. 128-
                the ordinary drepeciatory sense
                                                 of the word -- is that

137 seem to me to require reconsideration, partly from a substantial
and partly from a tactical point of view. There is much that is

disputable on the one hand, and not necessary to your argument
on the other.

Otherwise it seems to me that the case could hardly be better

stated. Here are a few notes and queries that have occurred

to me.

    IP. 41. Extinction of Tasmanians --rather due to the British

colonist, who was the main agent of their extirpation, fancy.

P. 67. Birds' sternums are a great deal more than surfaces of

268                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                                  chap, xvi

origin for the pectoral muscles--^, moveable lid of respiratory

bellows. This not taken into account by Darwin.

     P. 85. "Inferiority of senses of Europeans"                                                                      is,        believe,
                                                                                                                                   is
pure delusion. Prof. Marsh told me of feats of American trappers                                                       I                  a

IIequal to any savage doings.                                        question of attention. Con                              is ;
             I

                              a

                                        a It

                                                              is
                                                                 aa
sider wool-sorters, tea-tasters, shepherds who know every sheep

personally, etc. etc.

     P. 85.       do not understand about the infant's sole since all

men become bipeds, all must exert pressure on sole. There no

disuse.

     P. 88. Has not " muscardine " been substituted for "pebrine "?

   have always considered this very striking case. Here apparent
inheritance of diseased state through the mother only, quite

inexplicable till Pasteur discovered the rationale.

     P. 155. Have you considered that State Socialism (for which
have little enough love) may be product of Natural Selection
                                                                                                                                           ?

The   societies of       BeseusbsatnitdutiAonntsofex"hisbuirtvsivoacliaolisf mfititnestex"celfsoisr.                               " natural
     The unlucky
             --" hwahsicdhonmeanmy utcahkehatrommeinanco"nsbeeqsut e"ncoer   " ohfigthheestam"--biwguheitryeaosf
selection
" fittest "

natural    sdeloecntoiotnrefmeraytowtoherkmtoawlearmdsamdmegara--dawtihonich  vide epizoa.
      You                                                                      becomes functional

once in many million cases, see the curious records of Gynecomasty.

Here practical disuse      it      the male ever since the origin of the
                                 in
mammalia has not abolished the mamma or destroyed its functional
                                 I
potentiality in extremely rare cases.

     absolutely disbelieve in use-inheritance as the evidence stands.
     it. I   bound to a priori --his psychology goes to pieces with
Spencer         is
                     a
out                     a            am no pessimist --but also no optimist.
      Now as to the letter.
                   I
The world might be much worse, and might be much better. Of
                                                                     it

moral purpose              smeeanunfoactturraece--inandNavteurrye.mucThhatto                                              an articleis is  of
exclusively human                                                                                                     our credit.
Ifwho
        you will         faevcwecreypytecahtrehsqeueorrfeesduqltusieetxoisftdetnohcween--heixlplaen--rdietnhhceaerse   of an old man
for   has had
                                                                                                                      nothing to hope
     except                                                                                                                  nothing of

psaetrimsfaiensenqtuievtalureefle(cptuiotntin--g eaxsicdeepta  few human affections), nothing that
                                                               the sense of having worked accord

ing to one's capacity and light, to make things clear and get rid of
cant and shams of all sorts. That was the lesson learned from
                                                                                                                      by I

                                                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                                                a
Carlyle's books when was boy, and has stuck                                                                           me all my life.
                           I
      Therefore, my advice to                                                Ygoetutinmg ayabmusaeke--muonrteil
     failing to get money, and     (if
                                       a

                                                is
                                                            it
of                                 you                            go ahead.
                                    of                        succeeding in

such time in your life as          you are teachable) you have ceased                                                                      to

care much about either. The job you propose to undertake

big one and will tax all your energies and all your patience.

890 THE ARYAN QUESTION                                                                          269

IBut, if it were my case, should take my chance of failing in a

Iworthy task rather than of succeeding in lower things.
And if at any time can be of use to you                                 (even    to the answering
                                                          truth I am    getting
o--f flreottmersd) islueste.m--e Ekvneorw.yourBsutveirny                         Hr.usHtyuixnlesyci.ence
                                                          faithfully,       T.
P.S. --Yes -- Mr. Gladstone has dug up the hatchet. We shall

see who gets the scalps.

By the way, you have not referred to plants, which are a

stronghold for you. What is the good of use inheritance, say, in

orchids ?

The interests which had formerly been divided between

biology and other branches of science and philosophy, were

diverted from the one channel only to run stronger in the

rest. Stagnation was the one thing impossible to him ; his

rest was mental activity without excessive physical fatigue;

and he felt he still had a useful purpose to serve, as a friend

put in patrolling his beat with vigilant eye to the looseit,
                                                             a
characters of     th--ought.   Thus he writes on September 29 to
Sir Hooker                                                     a
I J.            I
    wish quietude of mind were possible to me. But without:
                        I
something to do   tqhuaitteamunuesensdurmaeblea--nd todomesysenlof tanidnveovlveerybtoodoy  much
labour, become                                                                                else.
    I

      Providence  thheasf,unctiboenlieovef ,keesppeincigall"y        devolved    "  on    Gladstone,
Gore, and Co.                                                     'ome 'appy         for  me.

I  really can't give up tormenting ces droits.

      However, have been       toiling at tremendously scientific                           article
about the " Aryan question     " absolutely devoid of blasphemy.

This article appeared in the November number of the

Nineteenth Century (Coll. Essays, vii, 271) and treats the
question from a biological point of view, with the warning

to readers that                essentially speculation based upon
a                                                            It a
facts, but not assuredly proved.                                        starts from the racial
                      it                                               a
characteristics of skull and stature, not from simply philois
                                                                          form of the " Sar-
logical considerations, and arrives at
matian " theory of Aryan origins. And for fear lest he

should be  supposed to take sides                            in the question of           race  and
language,  or race and civilisation,
                                                             he remarks --
                                                                                 :

     The combination of swarthiness with stature above the average                              a
and long skull, confer upon me the serene impartiality of

mongrel.

270              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                                                      chap, xvi

                                                     The Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                                           Aug. 12, 1890.

     My dear Evans -- I have read your address returned herewith
                                                     AI ryhaanpp"enquetostiohnaveaccboeerdningamtoustihneg
with a   great    deal   of interest, as
myself  lately   with   reviewing the "

Inew lights
    I have
        (or darknesses).                      remarks  to offer  on the places                                                  have
        only two or three
marked A and B.
     As to A, I would not state the case so strongly against the
probabilities of finding pliocene man. A pliocene Homo skeleton

might analogically be expected to differ no more from that of

modern men than the CEningen Cants from modern Canes, or
Ifpliocene horses
                                                                 so, he would most
undoubtedly be                                                   if you made him a
                 from modern                  horses.

                 a man -- genus               Homo -- even
distinct species. For my part I should by no means be astonished

to find the genus Homo represented in the Miocene, say the Nean

derthal man with rather smaller brain capacity, longer arms and
more movable great toe, but at most specifically different.
tfahlylacAsyesrvoatfnotla--nBg,wuahIgoeragbtoheteinrginttoahintecksotnstoihdfeerrreaacbewleebreehfootrpeewopBaltreeorcawo--hno
                                                                                                                                  fought the
                                                                                                                                among them
                                                                                                                                 that subject

for a lecture on the forefathers and forerunners of the English

people, delivered in 1870. Taylor says that Cuno was the first
to insist upon the proposition that race is not coextensive with

Ilanguage in 1871.      That is all stuff. The same thesis had been

maintained before       took it up, but I cannot remember by whom.
     IWon't you refer to the Blackmore Museum ?
                                                                        was very much

struck with it when at Salisbury the other day.

     Hope they gave you a better lunch at Gloucester than we did

here.     We'll  trreeagtarydosu--bEevtteerr  next   time  in our own   den.                                                    With the
wife's  kindest                               yours  very  faithfully,

                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

     The remark in a preceding letter about " Gladstone, Gore,

and Co." turned out to be prophetic as well as retrospective.

Mr. Gladstone published this autumn in Good Words his
" Impregnable Rock of Holy Scripture," containing an attack

upon Huxley's position as taken up in their previous con

troversy of 1889.
     The debate now turned upon the story of the Gadarene

swine. The question at issue was not, at first sight, one of

vital importance, and one critic at least remarked that at

their age Mr.    Gladstone and Professor                         Huxley                                                         mpiigghst:--be
better occupied   than in fighting over the                      Gadarene

IS90 THE SALVATION ARMY                                                                                             2~I

    If Ithese two famous swine were the only parties to the suit,

for my part (writes Huxley, Coll. Essays, v. 414) should fully admit
the justice of the rebuke. But the real issue (he contends) is
whether the men of the nineteenth century are to adopt the
demonology of the men of the first century, as divinely revealed
truth, or to reject it as degrading falsity.

    A lively encounter followed :--

"     The G.O.M.     is not murdered (he writes on November 20),                                                    only
   fillipped with a  three-man beetle," as the fat knight has it.

      This refers to the forthcoming article in the December
Nineteenth Century, " The Keepers of the Herd of Swine,"
which was followed in March 1891 by "Mr. Gladstone's

Controversial Methods" (see Coll. Essays, v. 366 sqq.), the
rejoinder to Mr. Gladstone's reply in February.

      The scope of this controversy was enlarged by the inter
vention in the January Nineteenth Century of the Duke of

Argyll, to whom he devoted the concluding paragraphs of

his March article. But it was scarcely well under way

when another, accompanied by much greater effusion of ink

and passion, sprang up in the columns of the Times. His

                 published in 1891 as  pamphlet under the
share inI

                 2) a it,

                            !
                                                                     's

                                                                a
                                                                                             is
title of " Social Diseases and Worse Remedies,"                                                  to be

found in Coll. Essays, ix. 237.

           have  new row on hand in re Salvation Army (he writes on
December         It's all Mrs.   fault; she offered the money.

      In fact, a lady who was preparing to subscribe £1000
to " General " Booth's " Darkest England " scheme, begged

Huxley first to give her his opinion of the scheme and the

likelihood of its being properly carried out. A careful

examination of " Darkest England " and other authorities on

the subject convinced him that was most unwise to create
      ;
                                               ;

                                                it

                                                                                                                 :

                                                                       if
an organisation whose absolute obedience to an irresponsible

leader might some day become a serious danger to the

State that the reforms proposed were already being under

taken by other bodies, which would be crippled                                                                      this

scheme were floated and that the financial arrangements

of the  Army were not such      fuasndpsrosuvbidsecribgeudara--ntees  for the
proper  administration of the

272     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                              CHAP. XVI

     And if the thing goes on much longer, if Booth establishes his

Bank, you will have a crash some of these fine days, comparable
only to Law's Mississippi business, but unfortunately ruining only
the poor.

     On the same day he writes to his eldest son :--

                                                                      Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                                     Dec. 8, 1890.

     Attacking the Salvation Army may look like the advance of a
forlorn hope, but this old dog has never yet let go after fixing his
teeth into anything or anybody, and he is not going to begin now.
And it is only a question of holding on. Looking at Plumptre's
letter exposing the Bank swindle.

     The Times, too, is behaving like a brick. This world is not a
very lovely place, but down at the bottom, as old Carlyle preached,
veracity does really lie, and will show itself if people won't be

impatient.

      No sooner had he begun to express these opinions in
the columns of the Times than additional information of
all kinds poured in upon him, especially from within the
Army, much of it private for fear of injury to the writers
if it were discovered that they had written to expose abuses ;
indeed in one case the writer had thought better of even
appending his signature to his letter, and had cut off his
name from the foot of alleging that correspondence was
not inviolable. So far were these persons from feeling hos
tility to the organisation to which they belonged, that one
at least hailed the Professor as the divinely -appointed
redeemer of the Army, whose criticism was to bring back

to its pristine purity.
a
                  To his Elder Son
       1
                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
            It
     Dear Lens--                                            Jan. 1891.
                     is

                        It

                                       is
                                            it,

                                                            4) J.
                                                                                                                8,
                                                              I
                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                  very jolly to think of and you paying us

visit.  proper, also, the eldest son should hansel the house.

     Is the Mr. Sidgwick who took up the cudgels for me so
gallantly in the St. James' one of your Sidgwicks? If so, wish you
would thank him on my account.
                                              (The letter was capital.)

         Mr. William C. Sidgwick had written  (January      a"n    indignant    letter  to
protest against the heading of an article in  the Speaker,       Professor    Huxley    as

1890 SALVATION ARMY SCHEMES                                                              273

Generally people like me to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for

them, but don't care to take any share in the burning of the fingers.

IBut the Boothites are hard hit, and may be allowed to cry out.

  begin to think that they must be right in saying that the Devil
is at work to destroy them. No other theory sufficiently accounts

faorlotnhge--wcaoy lutmhenys  play  --intleottemr y    hands.     Poor Clibborn-Booth has
                              long                   in the    Times to-day, in which, all

unbeknownst to himself, he proves my case.

    I Ido believe it is a veritable case of the herd of swine, and

shall have to admit the                  probability   --of  that  miracle.
                                         from us all.        Ever  your affectionate
     Love to J. and Co.

                                                                   Pater.

                                                                   Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                   Jan. 11, 1891.

    My dear Mr. Clodd-- I am very much obliged to you for the
Inumber of the St. James's Gazette, which had not seen. The

leading article expresses exactly the same conclusions as those at

Iwhich had myself arrived from the study of the deed of 1878. But
Iof course was not going to entangle myself in a legal discussion.
IHowever, have reason to know that the question will be dealt with
Iby a highly qualified legal expert before long. The more see of the
operations of headquarters the worse they look. I get some of my

Imost valuable information and heartiest encouragement from officers
of the Salvation Army ; and                            knew, in this way, of Smith's

resignation a couple of days before it was announced ! But the

poor fellows are so afraid of spies and consequent persecution, that

Isome implore me not to notice their letters, and all pledge me to

secrecy. So that am Vice-Fontanelle with my hand full of truth,
while I can only open my little finger.
     It is a case of one down and t'other come on, just now.                          "   "

Iwill get his deserts in due time. But, oh dear, what a                               w" awsatesteo"f

time for a man who has not much to look to. No ;
is the wrong word ; it's useful, but                           wish that somebody else

would do it and leave me to my books.                          I am happy to say she is

IfMy wife desires her kind regards.                            way, pray look in at our
nHoewrmirteamgea.r--kabYloyurwselvl.ery      you are   this               T. H. Huxley.
                                         faithfully,

Titus Oates." "To this monster of iniquity the Speaker compares an honour

able English gentleman, because he has ventured to dissuade his countrymen
from giving money to Mr. William Booth. . . . Mr. Huxley's views on theology

may be wrong, but nobody doubts that he honestly holds them ; they do not

bring Mr. Huxley wealth and honours, nor do they cause the murder of the
innocent. To insinuate a resemblance which you dare not state openly is an
outrage on common decency. . . ."
VOL. II
                                                                                      T

274               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, xvi

                                                      Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                            Jan. 30, 189 1.

     My dear Hooker -- I trust I have done with Booth and Co. at

last. What an ass a man is to try to prevent his fellow-creatures

from being humbugged ! Surely I am old enough to know better.
I have not been so well abused for an age. It's quite like old

times.                       settle accounts          with      the   duke  paenadce.t--he
                             the wicked will            let    me    be at
    And now I have to                                          T. H. Huxley.
G.O.M. I wonder when

Ever yours affectionately,

     Other letters touch upon the politics of the hour,
especially upon the sudden and dramatic fall of Parnell.
He could not but admire the power and determination of

the man, and his political methods, an admiration rashly
interpreted by some journalist as admiration of the objects

to which these political methods were applied. (See p. i 26.)

                                                      Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                                      Nov. 26, 1890.

     I IMy dear Lecky --Very many thanks for your two volumes,
which rejoice to have, especially as a present from you.                        was
Ionly
              until
shall         time
     waiting         nweextwewreeekse--ttlteod    in  our new  house-- as hope we
     be this                                    add   them to  the set which already
Iadorn my shelves, and promise myself soon to enjoy the reading

of them.

     The Unionist cause is looking up. What a strange thing it is

that the Irish malcontents are always sold, one way or the other, by

their leaders.

    I wonder if the G.O.M. ever swears ! Pity if he can't have that

relief just now.
     With our united kind regards to Mrs. Lecky and yourself--
                                                               T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

                                                      Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                                      Nov. 29, 1890.

    My dear Hooker-- I have filled up                 and sent       your and my
                                                      statement
copies of entry for Athenaeum.                                       I know of, of

      Carpenter has written the best popular

the results of criticism, in a little book called The First Three

IGospels, which is well worth reading. [See p. 282.]
          have promised to go to R.S. dinner and propose Stokes'

health on Monday, but if the weather holds out as Arctic as it is

1890 IRISH POLITICS                                                                                            275

now, I shall not dare to venture. The driving east wind, blowing

the snow before it here, has been awful ; for ten years they have

had nothing like              am glad to say that my little house turns
                 it
out to be warm. We go in next Wednesday, and                                              fear cannot
                   is I                                                            is                      I
be in town on Thursday even the weather permits.it.
                         I                          if                                 I                                    p.

                                                                       ;
I  have had pleurisy that was dangerous and not painful, then

that was painful and not dangerous there                                               only one further

combination, and don't want that.

      Politics now are immensely interesting. There must be depth
of blackguardism in me, for cannot help admiring Parnell.
                                                    I                                                      a

                                                           a                                                     I

prophesy that           Gladstone who will retire for while, and then
                                                                                   a

come back to Parnell's heel like whipped hound. His letter was
carefully full of loopholes. -- Ever yours affectionately,

                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

                                                                          Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                     Dec. 2, 1890.

My dear Hooker-- . . .                              The question of questions now
                                                                                                           is it
Ifwhether the Unionists will have the sense to carry measure settling                                              is
                                                                          I
                                                                                      a
the land question at once.                          they do that, do not believe will

be in the power of man to stir them further. And my belief that

Parnell will be quite content with that solution. He does not

want to be made nonentity by Davitt or the Irish Americans.
                     a

But what ingrained liars they all are That the bottom of all
                                                                   !

                                                                                   is

Irish trouble. Fancy Healy and Sexton going to Dublin to swear

eternal fidelity to their leader, and                         now         openly   rdeseicglna.r--ingEvtehrat   they
only did so because they believed                              he         would                                yours
                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.
affectionately,

                                                                          Hodeslea, Jan. 10, 1891.

My dear Foster -- am trying to bring the Booth business to
;

              I

                          is

                     I
an end so far as am concerned, but it's like getting wolf by the
                                                                                   I
ears you can't let him go exactly when you like.                                           a

But the result quite worth the trouble. Booth, Stead, Tillett,

Manning and Co. have their little game spoilt for the present.

You cannot imagine the quantity of letters                                               get from the

Salvation Army subordinates, thanking me and telling me all sorts of

stories in strict confidence. The poor devils are frightened out of

their livesis

   I

                    by
                            ! is
                                                 a
                 headquarter spies. Some beg me not to reply, as their

letters are opened.

knew that saints were not bad hands at lying before but these
                                                                          I
Booth people beat Banagher.                                                                             ;

  Then there            Oh  awaits                  qsukieint nliinfeg.,--anEdver  believe the G.O.M.
to be upon me               for
                                                                                   yours faithfully,
                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.

276              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                   CHAP. XVI

      But by February 17 the Booth business was over, the
final rejoinder to Mr. Gladstone sent to press ; and he writes

to Sir J. Hooker :--

Iand                      have now done with     them --wiped my
     Please the  pigs,                                            mouth,
     am going    to be  good -- till next time.
     IBut in truth am as sick of controversy as a confectioner's boy
of tarts.
                                                            Gladstone
    II rather think shall set up as a political prophet.

and all the rest are coming to heel to their master.

to    Years  ago one of   the present  leaders of  the   anti-Parnellites said
     me : "  Gladstone   is always in   the hands    of   somebody stronger

than himself ; formerly it was Bright, now it is Parnell."



                CHAPTER XVII

                1 890-91

The new house at Eastbourne has been several times

referred to. As usually happens, the move was considerably

delayed by the slowness of the workmen ; it did not actually

take place till the beginning of December.

    --He writes to his daughter,  Mrs. Roller, who also had just

moved into a new house :

IYou have all my sympathies on the buy, buy question.           never

knew before that when you go into a new house money runs out at
Ithe heels of your boots. On former occasions,
                                                         have been too
Ibusy to observe the fact. But am convinced now that it is a law

of nature.

     The origin of the name given to the house appears from

the following letter :--

                                   Grand Hotel, Eastbourne,

                                               Oct. 15, 1890.

     My dear     Foster -- Best thanks for the  third    part   of the
" Physiology,"  which I found when I ran up to  town     for a  day or

two last week. What a grind that book must be !

      How's a' wi' you ? Let me have a line.
      We ought to have been in our house a month ago, but fitters,
paperers, and polishers are like bugs or cockroaches, you may easily

Iget 'em in, but getting 'em out is the deuce. However, hope to

clear them out by the end of this week, and get in by the end of

next week.

    IOne is obliged to have names for houses   toher"e.     Mine will   be
                                      can go             Hodesleia,"   the
" Hodeslea," which is as near as
poetical original shape of my very ugly name.

There was a noble scion of the house of Huxley of Huxley who,
having burgled and done other wrong things (temp. Henry IV.),

278             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         chap, xvii

asked for benefit of clergy. I   expect they         gave it  "  hbimen,efnitot"  in the
                                 they would          like to                      a later
way he wanted, but in the way

member of the family.

     [Rough sketch of one priest hauling the rope taut over the

gallows, while another holds a crucifix before the suspended

criminal.]
      Between this gentleman and my grandfather there is un

fortunately a complete blank, but I have none the less faith in him

Ias my ancestor.             to say, is in town --superintending packing
up --Mnyo  wife, I am sorry
                              have been very uneasy about her at times,
           stopping her.

and shall be glad when we are quietly settled down. With kindest
regards to Mrs. Foster-- Ever yours,                 T. H. Huxley.

      His own principal task was in getting his library ready
for the move.

      Most of my time (he writes on November         16) for the last
fortnight has been spent in arranging books and      tearing up papers
till my back aches and my fingers are sore.

      However, he did not take all his books with him. There
was a quantity of biological works of all sorts which had
accumulated in his library and which he was not likely to
use again ; these he offered as a parting gift to the Royal
College of Science. On December 8, the Registrar conveys
to him the thanks of the Council for " the valuable library
of biological works," and further informs him that it was

resolved --

the  That the library shall  be  kept in  the room formerly occupied              by
      Dean, which shall      be  called   " The Huxley Laboratory                 for

Biological Research," and be devoted to the prosecution of original

researches in Biological Science, with which the name of Professor

Huxley is inseparably associated.

    Huxley replied as follows :--

    Dear Registrar --I beg you convey my hearty thanks to the

Council for the great kindness of the minute and resolution which

you have sent me. My mind has never been greatly set on

posthumous fame ; but there is no way of keeping memory green
Iwhich
           should like so well as that which they have adopted

towards me.

     I IfIt has been my fate to receive a good deal more vilipending than
(I hope) deserve.            my colleagues, with whom I have worked so

long, put too   high a    value upon my services,    perhaps     thHe urexsluelty.may
be not far off  justice.
                          -- Yours very faithfully,     T. H.

1890-91             THE FLOOD MYTH                               279

    In addition to the directly controversial articles in the

early part of the year, two other articles on controversial
subjects belong to 1 89 1 . " Hasisadra's Adventure," published
in the Nineteenth Century for June, completed his long-con

templated examination of the Flood myth. In this he first

discussed  ttahbeletBs aboyflonAisasnurbfoarnmipaolf--thae  legend recorded upon
the clay                                                    simpler and less ex

aggerated form as befits an earlier version, and in its physical

details keeping much nearer to the bounds of probability.

      The greater part of the article, however, is devoted to a

wider question -- How far does geological and geographical

evidence bear witness to the consequences which must have

ensued from a universal flood, or even from one limited to

the countries of Mesopotamia? And he comes to the con

clusion that these very countries have been singularly free

from any great changes of the kind for long geological periods.

    The sarcastic references in this article to those singular

reasoners who take the possibility of an occurrence to be the

same as scientific testimony to the fact of its occurrence, lead
up, more or less, to the subject of an essay, " Possibilities and

Impossibilities," which appeared in the Agnostic Annual for

1892, actually published in October 1891, and to be found

in Collected Essays, v. 192.
      This was a restatement of the fundamental principles of

the agnostic position, arising out of the controversies of the

last two years upon the demonology of the New Testament.

The miraculous is not to be denied as impossible ; as Hume
said, " Whatever is intelligible and can be distinctly conceived

implies no contradiction, and can never be proved false by

any demonstrative argument or abstract reasoning a priori,"

and these combinations of phenomena are perfectly con

ceivable. Moreover, in the progress of knowledge, the

miracles of to-day may be science of to-morrow. Improbable

they are, certainly, by all experience, and therefore they

require specially strong evidence. But this is precisely what

they lack ; the evidence to them, when examined, turns out
to be of doubtful value.

of  I am anxious    (he says)  "  timo pborsisnigbilaitbieoust"  aancdlea"rimupnrodbearsbtialintideisn,g"
                    between
    the difference

                 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                CHAP. XVII

because mistakes on this point lay us open to the attacks of

ecclesiastical  apologists   of the                   tthyepeAogfntohseticlatevieCwarodfin"almiNraecwlemsan".it      ...
      When it   is rightly  stated,                                                                               is,
                                                                                                                       in

my judgment, unassailable. We are not justified in the a priori
assertion that the order of nature, as experience has revealed to us,
cannot change. In arguing about the miraculous, the assumption

illegitimate, because                                 involves the whole point in dispute.
is
                        it
                             is

                                              it
                                                              a
Furthermore,        an assumption which takes us beyond the range

of our faculties. Obviously, no amount of past experience can

warrant us in anything more than correspondingly strong expecta

tion for the present and future. We find, practically, that expecta

tions, based upon careful observations of past events, are, as rule,
                                                                               I
                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                   ;
trustworthy. We should be foolish indeed not to follow the only

guide we have through life. But, for all that, our highest and

surest generalisations remain on the level of justifiable expectations

that  is,  very high probabilities. For my part,                                         am unable to

conceive of an intelligence shaped on the model of that of men,

however superior might be, which could be any better off than our
                 it
                            is,
                    ;
own in this respect that which could possess logically justifiable

grounds for certainty about the constancy of the order of things, and

therefore be in  a  position to declare that such and such events

are impossible.     Some of the old mythologies recognised this

clearly enough. Beyond and above Zeus and Odin, there lay the

unknown and inscrutable Fate which, one day or other, would

crumple up them and the world they ruled to give place to                                Ia                    new
order of things.

      sincerely hope that shall not be accused of Pyrrhonism, or of
I

               is
                     a

                                is

                       I

                                                    is
any desire to weaken the foundations of rational certainty.                                                    have

mtaelkrelayboduet sir"eidmptoospsiobiinlittieosu,"t   tohrat"  rational   certainty  is  one thing, and
                                                               violation   of natural    laws," another.

Rational certainty rests upon two grounds the one that the evidence
                                                                 :

in favour of given statement                                   as good as  it  can be the other,
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                      ;
that such evidence          plainly insufficient.                         In the former case, the

statement       to be taken as true, in the latter as untrue until

something arises to modify the verdict, which, however properly

reached, may always be more or less wrong, the best information

being never complete, and the best reasoning being liable to fallacy.

    To quarrel with the uncertainty that besets us in intellectual

affairs would be about as reasonable as to object to live one's life,

with due thought for the morrow, because no man can be sure he

will be alive an hour hence. Such are the conditions imposed upon

us by nature, and we have to make the best of them. And think
                                                               is

                                                                                         I
that the greatest mistake those of us who are interested in the

progress of free thought can make                                to overlook these limitations,

and to deck ourselves with the dogmatic feathers which are the

traditional adornment of our opponents. Let us be content with

i89i POSSIBILITIES AND IMPOSSIBILITIES                          281

rational certainty, leaving irrational certainties to those who like to
muddle their minds with them.

As for the difficulty of believing miracles in themselves,

he gives in this paper several examples of a favourite saying

of his, that Science offers us much greater marvels than the

miracles of theology ; only the evidence for them is very

different.

The following letter was written in acknowledgment of

a paper by the Rev. E. McClure, which endeavoured to place

the belief in an individual permanence upon the grounds
that we know of no leakage anywhere in nature ; that matter
is not a source, but a transmitter of energy ; and that the

brain, so far from originating thought, is a mere machine

responsive to something external to itself, a revealer of

something which it does not produce, like a musical instru
ment. This " something " is the universal of thought, which

is identified with the general \0709 of the fourth gospel.
Moral perfection consists in assimilation to this ; sin is the
falling short of perfect revealing of the eternal Xoyos.

Huxley's reply interested his correspondent not only for

the brief opinion on the philosophic question, but for the
personal touch in the explanation of the motives which had
guided his life-work, and his " kind feeling towards such of

the clergy as endeavoured to seek honestly for a natural

basis to their faith."

                        Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                     March 17, 1891.

    Dear Mr. McClure -- I am very much obliged for your
Iletter, which belongs to a different category from most of those

which receive from your side of the hedge that, unfortunately,

separates thinking men.

    ISo far as know myself, after making due deduction for the

ambition of youth and a fiery temper, which ought to (but unfor
tunately does not) get cooler with age, my sole motive is to get at
the truth in all things.
                                                                and
    I do not care one straw about fame, present or posthumous,  and
I Iloathe notoriety, but do care to have that desire manifest

recognised.

     Your paper deals with a problem which has profoundly inter

ested me for years, but which I take to be insoluble. It would need
a book for full discussion. But I offer a remark only on two

points.

282             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                               chap, xvn

     The doctrine of the conservation of energy tells neither one way

nor the other.       Energy is the cause of movement of body, i.e.
things having mass. States of consciousness have no mass, even if
they can be conceded to be movable. Therefore even if they are

caused by molecular movements, they would not in any way affect
the store of energy.

     Physical causation need not be the only kind of causation, and

when Cabanis said that thought was a function of the brain, in the

same way as bile secretion is a function of the liver, he blundered
philosophically. Bile is a product of the transformation of material

energy. But in the mathematical sense of the word "function,"

thought may be a function of the brain. That is to say, it may

arise only when certain physical particles take on a certain order.
     By way of a coarse analogy, consider a parallel-sided piece of

glass through which light passes. It forms no picture. Shape it so

as  to be bi-convex, and a picture appears   "infuintsctifooncu"s. of
     Is not the formation of the picture a
                                                                       the  piece  of

glass thus shaped ?                      suppose a mind-stuff --koyot

--a  So, from your own  point  of view,   is shadowed in the fourth
      noumenal cosmic   light  such as

gospel. The brain of a dog will convert it into one set of

phenomenal pictures, and the brain of a man into another. But in

both cases the result is the consequence of the way in which the

respective brains perform their "functions."

     Yet one point.

     The actions we call sinful are as much the consequence of the
order of nature as those we call virtuous. They are part and parcel

of the struggle for existence through which all living things have

passed, and they have become sins because man alone seeks a

higher life in voluntary association.

     Therefore the instrument has never been marred ; on the con

trary, we are trying to get  amnudsisceoeumt inogf lyhanrpesv,ersawcbiluTl t.sb,eH.a.--ndHEupvsexarlleteyyroi.eusrs,
which never were in tune

very faithfully,

      Few years passed without some utterance from Huxley
on the subject of education, especially scientific education.
This year we have a letter to Professor Ray Lankester

touching the science teaching at Oxford.

                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                              Jan. 28, 1891.

in   Dear Lankester--I       met  Foster at  thaebouAttheynoauerum"      when 1 was
                             had  some talk                            very gentle "
    town last week, and we
stirring of the Oxford pudding. I asked him to let you know when

1891 SCIENCE AND AGRICULTURE                                              283

Ioccasion offered, that (as I had already said to Burdon Sanderson)
   drew a clear line apud biology between the medical student and

the science student.

    IWith respect to the former, consider it ought to be kept within

strict limits, and made simply a Vorschule to human anatomy and

physiology.

On the other hand, the man who is going out in natural science
ought to have a much larger dose, especially in the direction of
                          from what I understand from Foster, there
morphology.    However,   "going out" in Natural Science, so I had
seems a doubt  about the

better confine myself to the medicos. Their burden is already so

heavy that I do not want to see it increased by a needless weight

even of elementary biology.                       articles " just  arrived. --
      Very many thanks for the " Zoological       T. H. Huxley.

Ever yours very faithfully,

      Don't write to the Times about anything ; look at the trouble
that comes upon a harmless man for two months, in consequence.

       The following letter, which I quote from the Yorkshire

Herald of April 11, 1891, was written in answer to some

enquiries from Mr. J. Harrison, who read a paper on
Technical Education as
Easingwold Agricultural      Calpupblie:--d to    Agriculture,    before  the

     I  am afraid    --thamt ymiygnooprainnicoen  upon the subject of your enquiry is
        very little                               of practical agriculture being pro
worth

found. However, there are some general principles which apply to

Iall technical training ; the first of these, think, is that practice is to
Ibe learned only by practice. The farmer must be made by and
through farm work.        believe I might be able to give you a fair
account of a bean plant and of the manner and condition of its
growth, but if I were to try to raise a crop of beans, your club would
Iprobably laugh consumedly at the result. Nevertheless,
                                                                   believe

that you practical people would be all the better for the scientific
knowledge which does not enable me to grow beans. It would keep

you from attempting hopeless experiments, and would enable you to

take advantage of the innumerable hints which Dame Nature gives

to people who live in direct contact with things. And this leads me

to the second general principle which I think applies to all technical

I

           It

                       is
                           a

                         I
                                                           I is,
teaching for school-boys and school-girls, and that that they should
Ifbe led from the observation of the commonest facts to general
scientific truths.        were called upon to frame a course of

elementary instruction preparatory to agriculture, am not sure that

should attempt chemistry, or botany, or physiology or geology, as

such.        method fraught with the danger of spending too much

284             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     chap, xvii

time and attention on abstraction and theories, on words and notions

instead  of things.    The            history  of  a  bceoawn, proofpea rlgyratirneaotefdw--hewati,thotfhea
turnip,  of a sheep,  of a            pig, or  of  a

introduction    --of wthoeuldelegmiveentasll  of chemistry, physiology, and so on as
they come in                                  the elementary science which is needed
for the comprehension of the processes of agriculture in a form

easily assimilated by the youthful mind, which loathes everything in

I Ithe shape of long words and abstract notions, and small blame to it.
I am afraid shall not have helped you very much, but         believe

that my suggestions, rough as they are, are in the right direction.

     The perversion of the new Chair of English Literature
at Oxford to " Middle English " philology was the occasion

of the following letter, which appeared in the Pall Mall
Gazette of October 22, 1891 :--

     I fully agree with you that the relation of our Universities to the

Istudy of English literature is a matter of great public importance ;

and have more than once taken occasion to express my conviction--
Firstly, that the works of our great English writers are pre-eminently

worthy of being systematically studied in our schools and universities

as literature ; and secondly, that the establishment of professional

chairs of philology, under the name of literature, may be a profit to

science, but is really a fraud practised upon letters.

      That a    young    Englishman            m" asyo  be   turned out of one of our
universities,   " epopt    and perfect                  far  as their system takes him,

and yet ignorant of the noble literature which has grown up in those

islands during the last three centuries, no less than of the develop

ment of the philosophical and political ideas which have most pro

foundly influenced modern civilisation, is a fact in the history of the

nineteenth century which the twentieth will find hard to believe;

though, perhaps, it is not more incredible than our current super

stition that whoso wishes to write and speak English well should

Imould his style after the models furnished by classical antiquity.

For my part, venture to doubt the wisdom of attempting to mould

one's style by any other process than that of striving after the clear
                                        of
and   forcible  perxepcreepsts, ion"         definite conceptions ; in which process
the  Glassian                         first  catch your definite conceptions," is pro
                                                             But still I mark among
bably the most difficult to obey.

distinguished contemporary speakers and writers of English, saturated
with antiquity, not a few to whom, it seems to me, the study of

Hobbes might have taught dignity ; of Swift, concision and clear
ness ; of Goldsmith and Defoe, simplicity.

     Well, among a hundred young men whose university career is

finished, is there one whose attention has ever been directed by his

literary instructors to a page of Hobbes, or Swift, or Goldsmith, or

1891 THE TEACHING OF ENGLISH 285

Defoe ? In my boyhood we were familiar with Robinson Crusoe,
miETshnyewgstleeisrVhrieaicsn"aroloeffsos"fpcoMhWpiaudanldkcaelerefieoolrEdaf,ntoglerlasiasnrhdnain"ndGgwuehltrleoievaedwhmrri'idstaedsteeTanrrnsadfvreotshmlpsaen;auksia,fntmdhweyetih"mhomapudgriedhsdsblieiotnehngne

perfect in such mysteries and ignorant of those three masterpieces.

It has been the fashion to decry the eighteenth century, as young

f"opPsrofleasusgohr      at their fathers. But we were            there  in germ ; and a
                         of Eighteenth Century History             and   Literature " who

knew his business might tell young Englishmen more of that which

it is profoundly important they should know, but which at present

remains hidden from them, than any other instructor ; and,

ionrcihdeeanrtaitll--y,   they would learn to know good English when              they see
                         perhaps even to discriminate between slipshod            copious

ness and true eloquence, and that alone would be a great gain.

      The remaining letters of the year are of miscellaneous
interest. They show him happily established in his retreat

at Eastbourne in very fair health, on his guard against any
further repetition of his "jubilee honour" in the shape of
his old enemy pleurisy ; unable to escape the more insidious
attacks of influenza, but well enough on the whole to be in

constant good spirits.

                                                          Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                  Jan. 13, 1891.

     My dear             Skelton --Many thanks to                  you    for reminding me
                                                                  Isles  " in the universe.
that there are           such things as " Summer

The memory of them has been pretty well blotted out here for the
last seven weeks. You see                                         can retire to " Hermit
ages " as well as other people      some                  people  even Argyll cum Glad
                                    ; and                 though

stone powers of self-deception could not persuade me that the view

from my window is as good as that from yours, yet I do see a

fine wavy chalk down with "cwms" and soft turfy ridges, over

which an old fellow can stride as far as his legs are good to carry

him.

      The fact           a is,

                              I

                                                       a
                         that discovered that staying in London any longer

meant for me very short life, and by no means merry one. So
                                                                         a
got my son-in-law to build me cottage
may go down-hill quietly together, and                                                     II
                                                          h"emrea,kewheoruer  my wife   and
                                                                               sowls "  as the

Irish say, solaced by an occasional visit from children and grand

children.

      The deuce of       it         that however much the weary want to be at

                               is,

rest the wicked won't cease from troubling. Hence the occasional

skirmishes and alarms which may lead my friends to misdoubt my

286                      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                             chap, xvii

absolute detachment from sublunary affairs. Perhaps peace dwells

Ionly among the fork-tailed Petrels !
         trust Mrs. Skelton and you are flourishing, and that trouble
                                                             of
Yweilal r.k--eepEvfearr  from   the hospitable doors             Braid through the New
                         yours   very faithfully,
                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

     No sooner had he settled down in his new country

home, than a strange piece of good fortune, such as happens

more often in a story-book than in real life, enabled him at one

stroke to double his little estate, to keep off the unwelcome

approach of the speculative builder, and to give himself

scope for the newly-discovered delights of the garden. The
sale of the house in Marlborough Place covered the greater
part of the cost of Hodeslea ; but almost on the very day

on which the sale was concluded, he became the possessor
of another house at Worthing by the death of Mr. Anthony

Rich, the well-known antiquarian. An old man, almost

alone in the world, his admiration for the great work done

recently in natural science had long since led him to devise

his property to Darwin and Huxley, to the one his private

fortune, to the other his house and its contents, notably a

very interesting library.

     As a matter of feeling, Huxley was greatly disinclined

to part with this house, Chapel Croft, as soon as it had come

into his hands. A year earlier, he might have made it his

home ; but now he had settled down at Eastbourne, and

Chapel Croft, as it stood, was unlikely to find a tenant.

Accordingly he sold it early in July, and with the proceeds

bought the               pJi.ecHe oookferla:n--d  adjoining      his  house.  Thus he
writes to Sir

                                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                     May 17, 1891.

     My dear Hooker --My estate is somewhat of a white elephant.

There is about a couple of acres of ground well situated and half of

it in the shape of a very pretty lawn and shrubbery, but unluckily, in
building the house, dear old Rich thought of his own convenience

and not mine (very wrong of him and cannot conceive anybody
                                                  !),

                                                       I
                                                             I
but an old bachelor or old maid living in it.                         do not believe any

body would take as stands. No doubt the site valuable, and
                         it                                           is
                                  it
                                                                           I
it  would be well worth while to anybody with plenty of cash to

spare to build on to the house and make                      it  useful. But neither

                                       LETTERS                                                         287

Ihave the cash, nor do want the bother. However, Waller is going
to look at the place for me and see what can be done. It seems

Ihardly decent to sell it at once ; and moreover the value is likely
to increase.      suppose at present it is worth £2000, but that is

only a guess.
     Apropos of naval portrait gallery, can you tell me if there is a
                                                                             I always
portrait of old John Richardson                         anywhere extant ?                              look
upon him as the founder of my                                                 to hang                  him
                                                       fortunes, and I want

up (just    over    your head) on my chimney                      thberefairset.placVeo]ic:--i !  [sketch
showing     the   position of the pictures above

     By your fruits ye shall judge them ! My cold was influenza,

I have been in the most preposterously weak state ever since ; and

at last my wife lost patience and called in the doctor, who is screw

ing  me up    with  nux vomica.                             -- Ever
     Sound    wind  and limb otherwise.
                                                                     yours  affectionately,

     And again on July 3 :--                                         T. H. Huxley.

     I have just been offered £2800 for Anthony Rich's place and
                                       probably worth £3000, but
have accepted                                                                                     were to
     it                                                                      a iIf
                         it.

                         It

                                   is
have on my hands and sell by auction should get no more out
                                                            a
of the transaction.
                                                               I
          am  Ngarebaottlhy 'sinvcilnineeydardto--put  some     of the money into piece of
                                                       front    of my house and turn horti
land--
     I                                 in

             a    find nailing up creepers delightful occupation.

             I
culturist.

     In the same letter                he describes               two meetings    with old

friends --
            :

              is

                    I

                               .I
     Last Friday ran down to Hindhead to see Tyndall. He was

very much better than hoped                            to"  find him, after such   long and
serious illness, quite bright and                           Tyndalloid," and not  aged as
                                                                                a

                                                                                           II
feared he would be. . . The local doctor happened to be there

during my visit and spoke very confidently of his speedy recovery.
The leg all right again, and he even talks of Switzerland, but

begged Mrs. Tyndall to persuade him to keep quiet and within

reach of home and skilled medical attendance.

     Saturday to Monday we were at Down, after six or seven years'
interruption of our
sad. Mrs. Darwin     wonted visits.                         well --wansatvuerrayllypalegaesdan--t butItrather
                         wonderfully                                 !                                  quite
                     is                                                              if

bright and cheerful as usual. Old Parslow turned up on Sunday,

just eighty, but still fairly hale. Fuimus fuimus

      [Parslow was the old butler who had been in Mr. Darwin's
service for many years.]

2-SS            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              CHAP. XVII

              To his Daughter, Mrs. Roller

                                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                      May 5, 1891.

      IYou dear people must have entered into a conspiracy, as had
Iletters from all yesterday.
                                        have never been so set up before, and

begin to think that fathers (like port) must improve in quality
with age. (No irreverent jokes about their getting crusty, Miss.)
      IJulian and Joyce taken together may perhaps give a faint idea
of my perfections as a child.           have not only a distinct recollec

tion of being noticed on the score of my good looks, but my mother
                                         of them
used to remind   me  spayaiinngf,ull"y  And you   in my later years, looking          at
me mournfully   and                               were such a pretty boy ! "

      Much as he would have liked to visit the Maloja

again this year, the state of his wife's health forbade such a
long journey. He writes just after his attack of influenza to

Sir M. Foster, who had been suffering in the same way :--

                                                             Hodeslea, May 12, 1891.

      My dear Foster -- I was very glad to hear from you. Pray

don't get attempting to do anything before you are set up

again.
      I am in a ridiculous state of weakness, and bless my stars that I
have nothing to do. I find it troublesome to do even that.
      I wish ballooning had advanced so far as to take people to
IMaloja, for
                do not think my wife ought to undertake such a
Ijourney, and yet believe the high air would do us both more good

than anything else. . . .
         UnneivveerrsidtyoubotfedLoitndwoonuld.sc--heEmveer
    IThe                                                     appears  to be coming to
                                                              yours,
grief, as                                                           T. H. Huxley.

      So instead of going abroad, he stayed in Eastbourne
till the end of August, receiving a short visit from his old

friend Jowett, who, though sadly enfeebled by age, still per

sisted in travelling by himself, and a longer visit from his

elder son and his family. But from September 1 1 to the

26th he and his wife made a trip through the west country,
starting from Salisbury, which had so delighted him the
year before, and proceeding by way of the Wye valley, which
they had not visited since their honeymoon, to Llangollen.

               VISITS HUXLEY HALL                   289

The first stage on the return journey was Chester, whence
they made pious pilgrimage to the cradle of his name,
Old Huxley Hall, some 9 miles from Chester. Incorpor
ated with a modern farm-house, and forming the present
kitchen, are some solid stone walls, part of the old manor-
house, now no longer belonging to any one of the name.
From here they went to Coventry, where he had lived as a

boy, and found the house which his father had occupied
still standing.

     A letter to an old pupil contains reflections upon the

years of work to which he had devoted so much of his

energies.

      To Professor T. Jeffery Parker, Otago

                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                             Aug. 1 1, 1891.

     My dear Parker -- It is a long time since your letter reached

Ime, but was so unwise as to put off answering it until the book
Iarrived and had read it. The book did not reach me for a long
Itime, and what with one thing and another have but just finished
Iit. I assure you am very proud of having my name connected

with such a thorough piece of work, no less than touched by the

kindness of the dedication.

      Looking back from the aged point of view, the life which cost

so much wear and tear in the living seems to have effected very
little, and it is cheering to be reminded that one has been of some

use.

     Some years of continued ill-health, involving constant travelling
about in search of better conditions than London affords, and long
periods of prostration, have driven me quite out of touch with
science. And indeed except for a certain toughness of constitution

I should have been driven out of touch with terrestrial things

altogether.

     It is almost indecent in a man at my time of life who has had

two attacks of pleurisy, followed by a dilated heart, to be not only

Iabove ground but fairly vigorous again. However, am obliged

to mind my P's and Q's ; avoid everything like hard work, and live

in good air.

     The last condition we have achieved by setting up a house

close to the downs here ; and I begin to think with Candide that

" cultivons notre jardin " comprises the whole duty of man.
      I was just out of the way of hearing anything about the Uni-
      VOL. II
                                              U

2i II i   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                    chap, xvii

versity College chair ; and indeed, beyond attending the Council of

the school when necessary, and meetings of Trustees of the British
Museum, I rarely go to London.
    haI vheavtheeihrsa.d--mWy itinhnibnegsst,
to                                              and it  is now for the younger generation
                                               wishes,  ever yours very faithfully,

                                                        T. H. Huxley.

      As for being no longer in touch with the world of
science, he says the same thing in a note to Sir M. Foster,
forwarding an inquiry after a scientific teacher (August
                                                                                                                             !
     Please read the enclosed, and you know of anybody suitable                                                                 1).
please send his name to Mr. Thomas.

         have told him that am out of the way of knowing, and that
you are physiologically omniscient, so don't belie the character
    I        a                                          if
                                                             is
                      I
         This year number of Huxley's essays were translated      a
                                                                     is
into French. Nature           for               July 23, 1891 (vol. xliv,             p. 272),
notes the publication       of "                                                   a  l'liduca-
                                               Les Sciences Naturelles et

tion," with short preface by himself, dwelling upon the
          a

astonishing advance which had been made in the recogni

tion of science as an instrument of education, but warning the

younger generation that the battle only half won, and
bidding them beware of relaxing their efforts before the

place of science            entirely assured. In the issue for
          3                                             notice of " La Place de
December     1

                        is
             (Nature, 46, 397),

I'Homme dans la Nature," a re-issue of translation of

more than twenty years before, together with three ethno

logical essays, newly translated by M. H. de Varigny, to

whom the following letters are addressed.

                  To H. De Varigny

                                                                                      May 17, 1891.

         am writing to my publishers to send you Lay Sermons,
    II

           I

             I

                           a
                                                     it.

                                I
                                                           a
                                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                          a
Critiques, Science and Culture, and American Addresses, pray accept
them in expression of my thanks for the pains you are taking about

the translation. Man's Place in Nature has been out of print for

years, so cannot supply

         am quite conscious that the condensed and idiomatic English

into which always try to put my thoughts must present many

difficulties to translator. But friend of mine who                                                                           much

better French scholar than                     am, and who looked over two or

1891         FRENCH TRANSLATIONS OF HIS WORKS                                          291

three of the essays, told me he thought you had been remarkably

successful.
      The fact is that I have a great love and respect for my native
                                                                         Sometimes I
tongue, and take great pains to use it properly.
write essays half-a-dozen times before I can get them into the
Iproper shape ; and I believe                         become more fastidious as I grow

older.

                                                                   November 25, 1891.

    I am very glad you have found your task pleasant, for I am

afraid it must have cost you a good deal of trouble to put my ideas
into the excellent French dress with which you have provided them.

IIt fits so well that feel almost as if I might be a candidate for a

seat among the immortal forty !
     As to the new volume you shall have the refusal of it if you care

to have        But have my doubts about its acceptability to
             it.                                                   is

                      I                                               I
                        I                                                       it

                                                a                                     if
French public which imagine knows little about Bibliolatry and                             J. a a

the ways of Protestant clericalism, and cares less.
      These essays represent controversy which has been going on

for five or six years about Genesis, the deluge, the miracle of the
herd of swine, and the miraculous generally, between Gladstone,
the ecclesiastical principal of King's College, various bishops, the
writer of Lux Mundi, that spoilt Scotch minister the Duke of

Argyll, and myself.

       My object has been to stir up my countrymen to think about

these things and the only use of controversy                       that         appeals to
     I
their love of fighting, and secures their attention.I
         shall be very -glad to have your book on Experimental Evolu
                           ;
tion.        insisted on the necessity of obtaining experimental proof
                      I
                                              a
of the possibility of obtaining virtually infertile breeds from
common stock in 1860 (in one of the essays you have translated).
Mr. Tegetmeier made number of experiments with pigeons some
years ago, but could obtain not the least approximation to in

fertility.             told Darwin this was the weak point of his
      From the first,

case from the point of view of scientific logic. But, in this matter,
we are just where we were thirty years ago, and am very glad

you are going to call attention to the subject.

      Sending    a copy of                       the  translation  soon  after  to Sir
Hooker, he
               writes --
                       :
                                                      Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                        I
                                                                   Jan. 11, 1892.

       My dear Hooker --We have been in the middle of snow for

the last foui days.                              shall not venture to London, and      you

-9-                             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, xvn

deserve the family title of the "judicious," I don't think you will

either.

     I send you by this post a volume of the French translation of a
collection of my essays about Darwinism and Evolution, 1860-76,
for which I have written a brief preface. I was really proud of
myself wnen I discovered on re-reading them that I had nothing to

alter.                          those  days  were !  Fuimus !-- Ever yours affection
      What times                                                      T. H. Huxley.

ately,

     The same subject of experimental evolution reappears

in a letter to Professor Romanes of April 29. A project

was on foot for founding an institution in which experi

ments bearing upon the Darwinian theory could be carried
out. After congratulating Professor Romanes upon his
recent election to the Athenaeum Club, he proceeds :---

     In a review of Darwin's Origin published in the Westminster

for i860 {Lay Sermons, pp. 323-24), you will see that I insisted on

the logical incompleteness of the theory so long as it was not

backed by experimental proof that the cause assumed was com

petent to produce all the effects required. See also Lectures to
Working Men, 1863, pp. 146, 147.) In fact, Darwin used to
reproach me sometimes for my pertinacious insistence on the need

of experimental verification.
    IBut
              hope you are going to choose some other                                 title than
" Institut  transformiste," which implies that the Institute                         is pledged

to a foregone conclusion, that it is a workshop devoted to the

production of a particular kind of article. Moreover, I should say
                                                                                     of
t"haetxpaesrima emntaatlt.e" r  of prudence,  yo"uBihoalodgbiceatlter    keep clear  "   the word
                                  Would not                            Observatory       serve the

turn ? Of course it does                     not exclude     experiment any          more  than
" Astronomical Observatory                   " excludes   spectrum analysis.               " is
     Please think over this. My objection to " Transformist

very strong.

      In August his youngest daughter wrote to him to find
out the nature of various " objects of the sea-shore " which
she had found on the beach in South Wales. His answers

make one wish that there had been more questions.

                                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                     Aug. 14, 1891.

     Dearest Babs -- 1. "Ornary" or not "ornary" B is merely A

turned upside down and viewed with the imperfect appreciation of
the mere artistic eye !

                           OBJECTS OF THE SEA -SHORE                                    293

I2. Your little yellow things are,            expect, egg -cases of dog

whelks. You will find a lot of small eggs inside them, one or two
of which grow faster than the rest, and eat up their weaker brothers

and sisters.                                                         If you look for

     The dog whelk is common on the shores.

something like this [sketch of a terrier coming out of a whelk shell],
you will be sure to recognise it.

      3. Starfish are not born in their proper shape and don't come
from your whitish yellow lumps. The thing that comes out of a

starfish egg is something like this [sketch], and swims about by its
cilia. The starfish proper is formed inside, and it is carried on its

back this-uns.

Finally starfish drops off carrying with it t'other one's stomach,

so that the subsequent proceedings interest t'other one no more.
     4. The ropy sand tubes that make a sort of banks and reefs are

houses of worms, that they build up out of sand, shells, and slime.

If you knock a lot to pieces you will find worms inside.

     5. Now, how do I know what the rooks eat ? But there are a
lot of unconsidered trifles about, and if you get a good telescope

and watch, you will have a glimpse as they hover between sand and

rooks' beaks.
     It
         --haussubaelelyn  blowing more or    --lesssoofthaatgaliet  here from  the west for
weeks                      cold, often foggy                         seems as
                                                                                 if summer

were going to be late, probably about November.

     But we thrive fairly well. L. and J. and their chicks are

here and seem to stand the inclemency of the weather pretty
fairly. The children are very entertaining.

     M has been a little complaining, but is as active as usual.

    My love to Joyce, and tell her I am glad to hear she has not

forgotten her astronomy.
In answer to your enquiry, Leonard says that Trevenen has
twenty- five teeth. I have a sort of notion this can be hardly
accurate, but never having been a mother can't presume to say. --
Our best love to you all. --Ever your loving
                                                                                Pater.

                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                     Aug. 26, 1891.

    Dearest Babs -- 'Pears to me your friend is a squid or pen-and-

ink fish. Loligo among the learned. Probably Loligo media which

I have taken in that region. They have ten tentacles with suckers

round their heads, two much longer than the others. They are

close to cuttle-fish, but have a thin horny shell inside them instead
of the " cuttle-bone."     If you can get one by itself in a tub of

water, it is pretty to see how they blush all over and go pale again,

owing to little colour-bags in the skin, which expand and contract.

294               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                       chap, xvii

Doubtless they took you for a heron, under the circumstances

[sketch of a wader].
      With slight intervals it has been blowing a gale from the west

Ihere for some months, the memory of man indeed goeth not back
to the calm.      have not been really warm more than two days

this so-called summer. And everybody prophesied we should be

roasted alive here in summer.

      We are all  flourishing,    and send our best love                     to  Jack            gaanrddeny. o--u.
Tell Joyce the    wallflowers     have grown quite high                      in
                                                                                  her

Ever your loving                                                                                 Pater.

      Politics are not often touched upon in the letters of this

period, but an extract from a letter of October 25, 1891, is

of interest as giving his reason for supporting a Unionist

Government,       wmiathn--y of   whose  tendencies                          he was far from
sympathising

      The extract from the Guardian is wonderful. The Gladstonian

tee-to-tum cannot have many more revolutions to make. The only

thing left for him now, is to turn Agnostic, declare Homer to be an

old bloke of a ballad-monger, and agitate for the prohibition of the

Istudy of Greek in all universities. . . .

     It is just because do not want to see our children involved in

Icivil war that postpone all political considerations to keeping up a

Unionist Government.
Iparty.
         ma"y   be quite wrong ;  but right or wrong, it is no question of
               Rads delight not   me nor Tories neither," as Hamlet does

not say.

      The following letter to Sir M. Foster shows how little

Huxley was now able to do in             the  way of                         public              business

without being knocked up :--

                                              HodEslea, Oct. 20, I 89 1.

    My dear Foster --If I had known the nature of the proceed
Iings at the College of Physicians yesterday, should have braved
Ithe tedium of listening to a lecture could not hear in order to see

Iyou decorated.   Clark  thoad"   made   a point of                          "mayftgeroing       to the dinner,*
                    had           say a                                                          with the result
and, worse luck,                         few words
      I

                                           1

                                                                                            it,
that        am  eonfticreolnygrwaatsuhlaetdionosu. --t tEov-deary,yoaunrsd,  only able           to send  you
the   feeblest                                                                   T. H.
                                                                                                 Huxley.

      The same thing appears in the following to Sir W. H.

                                    i.e. at the College of Physicians.

189 1 SENIORITY AND PROMOTION                                        295

Flower, which is also interesting for his     opinion            on  the

question of promotion by seniority :--

                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                              Oct. 23, 189 1.

     My dear Flower -- My " next worst thing " was promoting a

weak man to a place of responsibility in lieu of a strong one, on

the mere ground of seniority.
      Caeteris paribus, or with even approximate equality of qualifica

tions, no doubt seniority ought to count ; but it is mere ruin to any

service to let it interfere with the promotion of men of marked
superiority, especially in the case of offices which involve much

responsibility.
     I suppose as trustee I may requisition a copy of Woodward's
               I should like to look a little more carefully at it. . . .
Catalogue.

We   are none    the worse for our  pleasant   glimpse of the    world (and
his  wife) at    your house ; but             that speechifying     at public
                                    I find
dinners is one of the luxuries that I must utterly deny myself. It
will take me three weeks' quiet to get over my escapade. -- Ever
                                              T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

             CHAPTER XVIII

             1892

The revival of part of the former controversy which he had

had with Mr. Gladstone upon the story of creation, made a

warlike beginning of an otherwise very peaceful year. Since

the middle of December a great correspondence had been

going on in the Times, consequent upon the famous mani

festo of the thirty-eight Anglican clergy touching the question

of inspiration and the infallibility of the Bible. Criticism,
whether " higher " or otherwise, defended on the one side,

was unsparingly denounced on the other. After about a

month of this correspondence, Huxley's name was mentioned

as one of these critics ; whereupon he was attacked by one
of the disputants for " misleading the public " by his asser

tion in the original controversy that while reptiles appear in

the geological record before birds, Genesis affirms the con
trary ; the critic declaring that the word for " creeping
things "
reptiles,  (wrehhicmhesa)recrceoavteerdedonbythethesi"xtmh odvainyg,  does not   refer to
                                                                      creatures
                                                                                 " (sheh
retz) used of the first appearance of animal life.
It is interesting to see how, in his reply, Huxley took

care to keep the main points at issue separate from the

subordinate and unimportant ones. His answer is broken

up into four letters. The first (Times, January 26) rehearses
the original issue between himself and Mr. Gladstone ; wherein
both sides agreed that the creation of the sixth day included

reptiles, so that, formally at least, his position was secure,

though there was also a broader ground of difference to be

considered.  Before proceeding further, he asks his critic

whether he admits the existence of the contradiction involved,

1892 FURTHER CONTROVERSY ON GENESIS                                                   297

and if not, to state his reasons therefor.          These reasons

were again given on February 1 as the new interpretation of

the two Hebrew words already referred to, an interpretation,
by the way, which makes the same word stand both for " the
vast and various population of the waters " and " for such land

animals as mice, weasels, and lizards, great and small."

On February 3 appeared the second letter, in which,

setting aside the particular form which his argument

against Mr. Gladstone had taken, he described the broad

differences between the teachings of Genesis and the teachings

of evolution. He left the minor details as to the interpreta

tion of the words in dispute, which did not really affect the

main argument, to be dealt with in the next letter of Feb

ruary 4. It was a question with which he had long been
familiar, as twenty years before he had, at Dr. Kalisch's

request, gone over the proofs of his Commentary on Leviticus.

    The letter of February 3 is as follows :--

While desirous to waste neither your space nor my own time
                                of what I
upon mere misrepresentations               have  ssoa-icdalleeldsew"heMreosaabicou"t   the
relations between modern      science and   the                                       cos
mogony, it seems needful that I should ask for the opportunity of
                                                    atseaIchca--n.(1)
Istating the case once more, as briefly and fairly                     that           the

         conceive the first chapter of Genesis to
species of plants and animals owe their origin to supernatural acts of

creation ; (2) that these acts took place at such times and in such a
manner that all the plants were created first, all the aquatic and

aerial   animals (notably birds) next, and all terrestrial   animals last.
        not aware that any Hebrew scholar denies that       these proposi
I am
tions agree with the natural sense of the text. Sixty years ago I was

taught, as most people were then taught, that they are guaranteed by

Divine authority.

      On the other hand, in my judgment, natural science teaches no

less distinctly -- (1) that the species of animals and plants have
originated by a process of natural evolution ; (2) that this process

has taken place in such a manner that the species of animals and

plants, respectively, have come into existence one after another

throughout the whole period since they began to exist on the earth ;

that the species of plants and animals known to us are, as a whole,

neither older nor younger the one than the other.

The same holds good of aquatic and aerial species, as a whole,

compared with terrestrial species ; but birds appear in the geological

record later than terrestrial reptiles, and there is every reason to

believe that they were evolved from the latter.

298 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY chap, xvm

Until it is shown that the first two propositions are not contained

in the first chapter of Genesis, and that the second pair are not
                                                                   I must continue
justified by  the present condition  oafndoutrhekn"owMleodsgaei,c
to maintain    that natural science                                " account of the

Iorigin of animals and plants are in irreconcilable antagonism.

      As greatly desire that this broad issue should not be obscured
                                  points, I                                 what I may
by the   discussion  of   minor               "praonpodse"        to defer
have to  say about   the   great  " shehretz                     rehmes "   question till

to-morrow.

On February 1 1 he wrote once more, again taking cer

tain broader aspects of the problem presented by the first

chapter of Genesis.       He expressed his belief, as he had

expressed it in 1869, that theism is not logically

              is
                         is

                                                       ?

                                            If,
                                                                      is

                                                                                              a
antagonistic to evolution.           he continues, the account in

Genesis, as Philo of Alexandria held,                            only poem or

allegory, where      the proof that any one non-natural inter

pretation the right one and he concludes by pointing out
the difficulties in the way of those who, like the famous

thirty-eight, assert the infallibility of the Bible as guaranteed

by the infallibility of the Church.

Apart from letters and occasional controversy, he

published this year only one magazine article and a single

volume of collected essays, though he was busy preparing

the Romanes Lecture for 893, the more so because there was
                                  1
some chance that Mr. Gladstone would be unable to deliver
                                       if
the first of the lectures in 1892, and Huxley had promised

to be ready to take his place necessary.
     The volume (called Controverted Questions) which ap

peared in 1892, was a collection of the essays of the last few

years, mainly controversial, or as he playfully called them,
" endeavours to defend a cherished cause," dealing with

agnosticism and the demonological and miraculous element

in Christianity. That they were controversial in tone no one

lamented more than himself and as in the letter to M. de
I
                                                                              ;
                                                                                         a
                                                                         It
Varigny, of November 25, 1891, so here in the prologue

he apologises for the fact.                                        friend, "                          cost

     This prologue,-- of which he writes to

mehamveoreevetirmwe riatntedn,"p--ainswasthadnesiganneyd  equal   number                          of  pages
                                                             to  indicate                              main
                                                                                                 the

question, various aspects of which are dealt with by these

seemingly disconnected essays.

                            'CONTROVERTED QUESTIONS'                                                            299

     The historical evolution of humanity (he writes), which is gener
ally, and I venture to think not unreasonably, regarded as progress,

has been, and is being, accompanied by a co-ordinate elimination of

tThheesuqpueersntaiotnura--l   from  its  originally large          occupation                           of men's thought.
                                     far  is this process            to go ?                              in my apprehen
                              How
                            is

                                                                                                    is,
sion, the controverted question of our time.

This movement, marked by the claim for the freedom of

private judgment, which first came to its fulness in the

Renascence,                   here sketched out, rising or sinking by turns

under the pressure of social and political vicissitudes, from
Wiclif's earliest proposal to reduce the Supernaturalism of

Christianity within the limits sanctioned by the Scriptures,

down to the manifesto in the previous year of the thirty-

eight Anglican divines in defence of biblical infallibility,

which practically ends in an appeal to the very principle

they reject.

But he does not content himself with pointing out the

destructive effects                  o--f c"rTithiceismpresuepnotn    the evidence                          in    favour
                                                                                                         the    spirit of
of a " supernature"                                                 incarnation of
the Renascence," he writes, " differs from its predecessor in

the eighteenth century, in that builds up, as well as pulls
down. That of which has laid the foundation, of which
                                          it
                                                        it

already raising the superstructure,                                 is                    the doctrine of
it
     is

                      a
evolution," doctrine that " no speculation, but a general
                                          is

isation of certain facts, which may be observed by any one

who will take the necessary trouble." And in                                                                    short
                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                        '
dozen pages he sketches out that common body of estab
lished truths " to which
                                              his confident belief that all
                                          it it
                                              a is is

                                                                                       ;
future philosophical and theological speculations will have to

accommodate themselves.' "

      There no need to recapitulate these they may be readis
in Science and Christian Tradition, the fifth volume of the

Collected Essays, but                         worth noticing that in con
clusion, after rejecting "                    great many supernaturalistic

theories and legends which have no better foundations than

those of heathenism," he declares himself as far from wish
ing to " throw the Bible aside as so much waste paper " as

he was at the establishment of the School Board in 1870.
As English literature, as world-old history, as moral teach

ing, as the Magna Charta of the poor and of the oppressed,

3oo                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                  chap, xviii

the most democratic book in the world, he could not spare
it. " I do not say," he adds, " that even the highest biblical
ideal is exclusive of others or needs no supplement. But I

do believe that the human race is not yet, possibly may

never be, in a position to dispense with it."

     It was this volume that led to the writing of the
magazine article referred to above. The republication in it
of the " Agnosticism," originally written in reply to an article
of Mr. Frederic Harrison's, induced the latter to disclaim in

the Fortnightly Review the intimate connection assumed to
exist between his views and the system of Positivism detailed

by Comte, and at the same time to offer the olive branch to

his former opponent. But while gratefully accepting the
goodwill implied in the offer, Huxley still declared himself
unable to " give his assent to a single doctrine which is the
peculiar property of Positivism, old or new," nor to agree
with Mr. Harrison when he wanted

to persuade us that agnosticism is only the Court of the Gentiles of
the Positivist temple ; and that those who profess ignorance about
the proper solution of certain speculative problems ought to call
themselves Positivists of the Gate, if it happens that they also take a

lively interest in social and political questions.

     This essay, " An Apologetic Irenicon," contains more
than one passage of personal interest, which are the more

worth quoting here, as the essay has not been republished.

It was to have been included in a tenth volume of collected
Essays, along with a number of others which he projected,

but never wrote.

      Thus, begging the Positivists not to regard him as a rival
or competitor in the business of instructing the human race,

he says :--

     I aspire to no such elevated and difficult situation.                   I declare

myself not only undesirous of but deeply conscious of constitu
                 a                                                           a
                                                                                                a
                                   if
                                                                     it,
tional unfitness for it. Age and hygienic necessities bind me to

somewhat           anchoritic life  in pure air, with abundant            "  leisure to  medi
                   the wisdom of    Candide's sage aphorism,                 Cultivons   notre
jtaartedinup"o--n
                   especially  the term garden may be taken broadly and

applied to the stony and weed-grown ground within my skull, as well
                                                                                         In
as to few perches of more promising chalk down outside                       it.

addition to these effectual bars to any of the ambitious pretensions

IS92 'AN APOLOGETIC IRENICON' 301

ascribed to me, there is another : of all possible positions that of
master of a school, or leader of a sect, or chief of a party, appears

to me to be the most undesirable ; in fact, the average British

matron cannot look upon followers with a more evil eye than I do.
Such acquaintance with the history of thought as I possess, has

taught me to regard schools, parties, and sects, as arrangements, the

usual effect of which is to perpetuate all that is worst and feeblest

in the master's, leader's, or founder's work ; or else, as in some

cases, to upset it altogether ; as a sort of hydrants for extinguishing
the fire of genius, and for stifling the flame of high aspirations, the
Ikindling of which has been the chief, perhaps the only, merit of the
protagonist of the movement.     have always been, am, and propose
to remain a mere scholar. All that I have ever proposed to myself
is to say, this and this have I learned ; thus and thus have I learned

it : go thou and learn better ; but do not thrust on my shoulders
the responsibility for your own laziness if you elect to take, on my

authority, conclusions, the value of which you ought to have tested

for yourself.

      Again, replying to the reproach that all his public utter
ances had been of a negative character, that the great

problems of human life had been entirely left out of his
purview, he defends once more the work of the man who

clears the ground for the builders to come after him :--

    There is endless backwoodsman's work yet to be done. If

" those also serve who only stand and wait," still more do those who

Isweep and cleanse ; and if any man elect to give his strength to the

weeder's and scavenger's occupation, remain of the opinion that

his service should be counted acceptable, and that no one has a

right to ask more of him than faithful performance of the duties he
Ihas
               venture to count it          an improbable suggestion
that                                        who has well-nigh reached
undertaken.
any such person -- a man, let us say,

his threescore years and ten, and has graduated in all the faculties
of human relationships ; who has taken his share in all the deep joys

and deeper anxieties which cling about them ; who has felt the

burden of young lives entrusted  to  htishecaertee,rnaanld--hhaass                           stood alone
with his dead before the abyss   of                                                           never had
a thought beyond negative criticism. It seems to me incredible

that such an one can have done his day's work, always with a light

heart,  wwithhennothseenfasectiotifoursesvpeoinl soifbiIlsitiys,--ntohetetrhriocrk  of that  which    may
appear                                                                              web of   fiction  man
has woven round nature -- is stripped off.

Challenged to state his " mental bias, pro or con" with

302                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                        chap, xvm

regard    to such matters as Creation, Providence,                                 etc.,               he  re
iterates  his words written thirty-two years before
                                                                                   :--

                    1860 wrote :--

                    of special creation
     IS" oThfaer
          back as                                  owes           its  existence   very                  largely
          doctrine

ctoostmheogsounpypo:s"edanndectehsastitytheofhmypaokthinegsisscioefncsepeacciaclordcrewaittihonthe  is,Hebrew-
                                                                                                         in my

jwuidthgm"nHeenagtar,mtioonn,"imouesrseaidosrpd--eecriougsovmeransikngforetoeurnr ailglynorcaonnctein."uouNs otprocgonretessnt
          a

              I

                                  :

the web and woof of matter and force interweaving by slow degrees,                                                            is ;

without broken thread, that veil which lies between us and the
     ;a
infinite that universe which alone we know, or can know such
                                                                                   ;
the picture which science draws of the world."                                                             little
     . . . Every reader of Goethe will know that the second                             is

more than       a   paraphrase of the              well - known utterance                                of the
               in  Faust, which surely              something more than
" Zeitgeist "                                      is is                                               a    mere
                                                              by
negation of    thequcelurymsayboauntth"roPproomvidoerpnhcies,m"  of special  creation.                    must
      Follows                                                    my answer    to which
    a

           it if

                  a it a
                                  a
                                           a

                                 I
depend upon what my questioner means that substantive, whether
Ifalone, or qualified by the adjective "moral."
       the doctrine of Providence                   to be taken as             the expression,
in   way " to be understanded of the               people," of the             total exclusion

of chance from      place even in the most insignificant corner of

Nature,        means the strong conviction that the cosmic process                                                            is

rational, and the faith that, throughout all duration, unbroken order

has reigned in the universe, not only accept                           but am disposed
                                                                       it,
to think the most important of all truths. As                                  of more conse
                                                                          it

                                                                           is I

quence for citizen to know the law than to be personally acquainted

with the features of those who will surely carry into effect, so this  it
very positive doctrine of Providence, in the sense defined, seems to

me far more important than all the theorems of speculative theology.
If, further, the doctrine
                                     held to imply that, in some indefinitely
                                     is
                                              if,
remote past aeon, the cosmic process was set going by some entity
possessed of intelligence and foresight, similar to our own in kind,

however superior in degree,                        consequently,             held that every
                                                   a
event, not merely in our planetary speck, but in untold millions ofit, it
                                                                       is

                                                                            a is,
other worlds, was foreknown before these worlds were, scientific

thought, so far as know anything about                                 has nothing to say
                    I

                                     is,
against that hypothesis. It in fact, an anthropomorphic render
ing of the doctrine of evolution.
     It may be so, but the evidence accessible to us                               to my mind,

wholly insufficient to warrant either              positive or negative con

clusion.

     He remarks in passing upon the entire exclusion of

1892 FORECAST OF THE ROMANES LECTURE                                                              303

" special " providences       by this               conception of          a        universal
" Providence." As for         " moral "
                                                    providence :--

So far as mankind has acquired the conviction that the

observance       of certain rules   of conduct is essential to the main
tenance of                          it may be proper to say that " Provi
                 social existence,

dence," operating through men, has generated morality. Within
the limits of a fraction of a fraction of the living world, therefore,
there is a " moral " providence.
                                                    Through this small plot of an
infinitesimal fragment of the universe there runs a "stream of

tendency towards righteousness."            But outside the very rudimentary
          of a garden of                             I am
ganeyrm"  moral " purpose,    Eden, thus watered,                          unable to   discover
                               or anything but a    stream                 of purpose  towards

the consummation of the cosmic process, chiefly by means of the

struggle for existence, which is no more righteous or unrighteous
than the operation of any other mechanism.

     This, of course, is the underlying principle of the

Romanes Lecture, upon which he was still at work. It is
more specifically expressed in the succeeding paragraph :--

Ithe  hear much of the "      ethics     "oef veovluotluiotnio,"n."thereI  apprehend   that, in
    broadest sense of the     term                                         neither     nor can
                                                                                    is,
be, any such thing. The notion that the doctrine of evolution can                          is, ;

furnish foundation          for morals   seems to me to be                 atenrmillu"sifoitnteswt h"icihn
has arisen from the         unfortunate    ambiguity of the
a
         a                    of the fittest." We commonly                 "uthsbeees"t"f"iftittteeassnttd""
the formula, "survival        an understood connotation of

i"nbesgt o"odwe  sense, with  take in its ethical sense. But
                  are apt to

which survives in the struggle for existence may be, and often                                    the

ethically worst.

    Another paragraph explains the sense in which he used

to say    that the Romanes            Lecture was   a  tvheisrywoorrtlhdo"do--x dis
course    on the text, " Satan,       the Prince of
                                                                                       :

              the secret of the superiority of the best theological teachers
to the majority of their opponents that they substantially recognise
a It
these realities of things, however strange the forms in which they
      is                            The doctrines of predestination, of
clothe their conceptions.

original sin, of the innate depravity of man and the evil fate of the
greater part of the race, of the primacy of Satan in this world, of the

essential vileness of matter, of malevolent Demiurgus subordinate
                                         a

to benevolent Almighty, who has only lately revealed himself,

tfahuelty" liabserthael y"  are, appear to me to    be vastly nearer        the  truth    than
                            popular illusions that   babies are all        born  good,     and

3°4               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                     chap, xviii

that the example of a corrupt society is responsible for their failure

to remain so ; that it is given to everybody to reach the ethical ideal
if he will only try ;
                        that all                 partial  evil is         universal     goo" dP, roavniddenoctheer"
optimistic figments,      such                  as that    which           represents

under the guise of a paternal philanthropist, and bids us believe that

everything   "wImilIlmdcooomrtnaeolittryigthh"itnakg(aaciIncon[rehdeeidngrerfeteotrusronuhirstnocort"iitsoiucnbs)jteoactthilivasest".boimokmoorn
      As to  it may be well to add that I am a very strong believer in

" Hume"].
tality, but

the punishment of certain kinds of actions, not only in the present,

but in all the future a man can have, be it long or short. There
fore in hell, for I suppose that all men with a clear sense of right
Iand wrong (and am not
                                                "sudreesctheantdeadny   others    d"esaenrdve    such punish
ment) have now and then                                                into hell               stopped there

Iquite long enough to know what infinite punishment means. And

if a genuine, not merely subjective, immortality awaits us, conceive

that, without some such change as that depicted in the fifteenth chapter

of the first Epistle to the Corinthians, immortality must be eternal

misery. The fate of Swift's Struldbrugs seems to me not more
horrible than that of a mind imprisoned for ever within the flammantia
mania of inextinguishable memories.

     Further, it may be well to remember that the highest level of

Jmeowrsal--aMspiicraathio, nIsarieacho,rdaendd  in   hreisstto--ry   was   reached    by a     few ancient
                                                the                 who   took no   count
                                                                                               whatever of

what might or might not happen to them after death. It is not

obvious to me why the same point should not by and by be reached

by the Gentiles.

     He admits that the generality of mankind will not be

satisfied to be told that there are some topics about which

we know nothing now, and do not seem likely ever to be

able to know more ; and, consequently, that in the long-run

the world    will  turn  to                     those     who profess               to  have   conclu

sions :--

     And that is the pity of it. As in the past, so, I fear, through a

very long future, the multitude will continue to turn to those who

are ready to feed it with the viands its soul lusteth after ; who will

offer mental peace where there is no peace, and lap it in the luxury

of pleasant delusions.

     To missionaries of the Neo-Positivist, as to those of other pro

fessed solutions of insoluble mysteries, whose souls are bound up in

the success of their   s"ewctoarriladn,"        propaganda, no doubt, it must be               very
                                                for whose assent and approbation               they
disheartening if the

sue, stops its ears and turns its back upon them. But what does it

signify to any one who does not happen to be a missionary of any

1892 THE BASIS OF MORALITY 305

sect, philosophical or religious, and who, if he were, would have no

sermon to preach except from the text with which Descartes, to go

no further back, furnished us two centuries since? I am very sorry

if people will not listen to those who rehearse before them the best
lessons they have been able to learn, but that is their business, not
mine. Belief in majorities is not rooted in my breast, and if all the

world were against me the fact might warn me to revise and criticise
my opinions, but would not in itself supply a ghost of a reason for

forsaking them. For myself I say deliberately, it is better to have a

millstone tied round the neck and be thrown into the sea than to
share the enterprises of those to whom the world has turned, and

will turn, because they minister to its weaknesses and cover up the
awful realities which it shudders to look at.

A letter to Mr. W. P. Clayton also discusses the basis

of morality.

                                 Hodeslea, Eastbourne, Nov. 5, 1892.

    Dear Sir -- I well remember the interview to which you refer,
and I should have replied to your letter sooner, but during the last
few weeks I have been very busy.

Moral duty consists in the observance of those rules of conduct

which contribute to the welfare of society, and by implication, of the

individuals who compose it.

The end of society is peace and mutual protection, so that the

individual may reach the fullest and highest life attainable by man.
The rules of conduct by which this end is to be attained are dis

coverable -- like the other so-called laws of Nature -- by observation

and experiment, and only in that way.
     Some thousands of years of such experience have led to the

generalisations, that stealing and murder, for example, are incon
sistent with the ends of society. There is no more doubt that they
are so than that unsupported stones tend to fall. The man who

steals or murders, breaks his implied contract with society, and
                              He becomes an outlaw, to be dealt with as
forfeits all protection.

any other feral creature. Criminal law indicates the ways which

have proved most     convenient for  dheaadlinngow"itmh ohraiml . sense  "  at  all,  just
     All this would  be true if men

as there are rules of perspective which must be strictly observed by
a draughtsman, and are quite independent of his having any artistic

sense.     moral sense    is  a  very complex  affair --dependent               in part
      The

upon associations of pleasure and pain, approbation and disapproba

tion formed by education in early youth, but in part also on an
innate sense of moral beauty and ugliness (how originated need not
be discussed), which is possessed                             in great
while some are totally devoid of     itb--y  some     people  children      strength,
                                             just as    some                draw, or

VOL. II                                                                         X

3°6

are enchanted        by music     while mere infants,         while others do   not
know " Cherry        Ripe " from    " Rule Britannia,"       nor can represent  the

form of the simplest thing to the end of their lives.

      Now for this last sort of people there is no reason why they
should discharge any moral duty, except from fear of punishment in

all its grades, from mere disapprobation to hanging, and the duty
of society is to see that they live under wholesome fear of such

punishment short, sharp, and decisive.
     For the people with a keen innate sense of moral beauty there

is no need of any other motive. What they want is knowledge of
the things they may do and must leave undone, if the welfare of

society is to be attained. Good people so often forget this that

some of them occasionally require hanging almost as much as

the bad.
     If you ask why the moral inner sense is to be (under due
limitations) obeyed ; why the few who are steered by it move the
          --whWohmy  it is weak ? I can                                     staronnogth--er
mass in                                    only    reply       by putting
question             do the few in whom    the   sense       of beauty is

Shakespere, Raffaele, Beethoven, carry the less endowed multitude

away ? But they do, and always will. People who overlook that

fact attend neither to history nor to what goes on about them.                    I
      Benjamin Franklin was a shrewd, excellent, kindly man.

have a great respect for him. The force of genial common-sense

respectability could no further go. George Fox was the very

antipodes of all this, and yet one understands how he came to
move the world of his day, and Franklin did not.

    As to whether we can all fulfil the moral law, I should say,

hardly any of us. Some of us are utterly incapable of fulfilling its

plainest dictates. As there are men born physically cripples and

intellectually idiots, so there are some who are moral cripples and

idiots, and can be kept straight not even               Iby punishment.         --For
these people there is nothing but shutting
am, yours faithfully,                                   up, or extirpation.
                                                             T. H. Huxley.

     The peaceful aspect of this article seems to have veiled

to most readers the unbroken nature of his defence, and he

writes to his         son-in-law,   the    Heosns.ayJo:--hn  Collier, suggesting
an alteration        in the title
                                   of the

                                                 Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                             Nov. 8, 1892.

     My dear Jack -- It is delightful to find a reader who " twigs "
     point as                your brother has done.          I told somebody
      it you ?               wished the printer would
I--evewryas      acutely as                                   substitute 0 for e

                -- rather
in Irenicon. So far as I have seen any notices, the British critic

1892 LONDON UNIVERSITY REFORM                                                                                          307

I(what a dull ass he
    II

                                      is)

                               It

                                                is

                                I
                                                                                                                   by
                           appears to have been seriously struck                                                       my

sweetness of temper.

       sent you the article yesterday, so you will judge for yourself. --
                                                    T. H. Huxley.
With love, ever yours affectionately,

You should see the place am claiming for Art in the University.

do believe something will grow out of my plan, which has made all

the dry bones rattle.      coming on for discussion in the Senate,

and shall be coming to you to have my wounds dressed after the

fight. Don't know the day yet.

     This allusion to the place of Art in the University
refers to the proposed reorganisation of the London

University.

     Since the year 1887 the question of establishing a
Teaching University for London had become more and

more    pressing.      London contained             many isolated teaching
bodies                                              College, King's College,
         of various    kinds -- University

the Royal College of Science, the Medical Schools, Bedford

College, and so forth, while the London University was

only an examining body. Clearly these scattered bodies

needed organising the educational forces of the metropolis
                       ;;  much teaching-- and
were  disintegrated         schools -- that could   this was especially
true  of the medical                                  have been better

done and better paid in a single institution, was split up
among several, none of which, perhaps, could offer sufficient

inducement to keep the best men permanently.

The most burning question was, whether these bodies

should be united into                    new university, with power to
        a
                                      a
grant degrees of its own, or should combine with the

existing University of London, so that the latter would

become teaching as well as an examining body. And
                                                                    a

                                                                                     if
so, there was the      additional        taqkuees--tionwheasthetro  the form which
this combination         should                                      federation, for

example, or absorption.

      The whole question had been referred to Royal Com
mission by the Government of Lord Salisbury. The results

were seen in the charter for Gresham University, embody
             a
                                                 a
ing the former alternative, and in the introduction into Par
liament of Bill to carry this scheme into effect. But this

action had only been promoted by some of the bodies in

terested, and was strongly opposed by other bodies, as well

308                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             chap, xvm

as by many teachers who were interested in university

reform.

      Thus at the end of February, Huxley was invited, as a

Governor of University College, to sign a protest against the

provisions of the Charter for a Teaching University then
before Parliament, especially in so far as it was proposed
to establish a second examining body in London. The

signatories also begged the Government to grant further

enquiry before legislating on the subject.
      The protest, which received over 100 signatures of

weight, contributed something towards the rejection of the
Bill in the House of Commons. It became possible to hope

that there might be established in London a University
which should be something more than a mere collection of
teachers, having as their only bond of union the preparation

of students for a common examination. It was proposed to
form an association to assist in the promotion of a teaching
university for the metropolis ; but the first draft of a scheme
to reconcile the complication of interests and ideals involved
led Huxley to express himself as follows :--

                                        Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                        March 27, 1892.

     Dear Professor Weldon1 -- I am sorry to have kept you

waiting   so long for an answer  to  your letter of the 1                                   7Ithha: vebuthaydouar
proposal   required a good deal  of   consideration, and

variety of distractions.

     So long as I am a member of the Senate of the University of

London, I do not think I can with propriety join any Association
which proposes to meddle with it. Moreover, though I have a good
deal of sympathy with the ends of the Association, I have my doubts

about many propositions set forth in your draft.
schemI et,ooakndpaIrt
                        in  the discussions preliminary to  Lord Justice Fry's
                       was  so convinced that that scheme   would be wrecked

amidst the complication of interests and ideals that claimed con

sideration, that I gave up attending to it. In fact, living so much
out of the world now, and being sadly deaf, I am really unfit to

intervene in business of this kind.

    Worse still, I am conscious that my own ideal
1                                                                                           for the present
                                                                               ;

                                          I

                                                                                       is,
at any rate, hopelessly impracticable.  should cut away medicine,

        Then at University College, London now Linacre Professor of Physiology
at Oxford.

IS92 IDEAL OF A MODERN UNIVERSITY                                        309

law, and theology as technical specialities in charge of corporations

which might be left to settle (in the case of medicine, in accordance
with the State) the terms on which they grant degrees.

      The university or universities should be learning and teaching

bodies devoted to art (literary and other), history, philosophy, and

science, where any one who wanted to learn all that is known about

these matters should find people who could teach him and put him

in the way of learning for himself.

That is what the world will want one day or other, as a supple

ment to all manner of high schools and technical institutions in

wbrheiacdh--yosuucnhg   people get decently educated  and learn to earn their
                       as our present universities.
It will be a place for men to get knowledge ; and not for boys

and adolescents to get degrees.

    I wish I could get the younger men like yourself to see that this

is the goal which they may reach, and in the meanwhile to take

care that no           such Philistine compromise as is  --poIssaibmle,  at present,
becomes too            strong to survive a sharp shake.                  yours very
                                                         T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

      He sketches his ideal of a modern university, and especi
ally of its relation to the Medical Schools, in a letter to

Professor Ray Lankester of April --1 1:

                                                                   Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                           April 1 1, 1892.

     My dear Lankester -- We have been having ten days of sun
shine, and I have been correspondingly lazy, especially about letter-

writing. This, however, is my notion ; that unless people clearly
understand that the university of the future is to be a very different
thing from the university of the past, they had better put off

meddling for another generation.
      The mediaeval university looked backwards : it professed to be

a storehouse of old knowledge, and except in the way of dialectic

cobweb-spinning, its professors had nothing to do with novelties.
Of the historical and physical (natural) sciences, of criticism and
laboratory practice, it knew nothing. Oral teaching was of supreme
importance on account of the cost and rarity of manuscripts.

      The modern university looks forward, and is a factory of new
knowledge : its professors have to be at the top of the wave of
progress. Research and criticism must be the breath of their
nostrils ; laboratory work the main business of the scientific student ;

books his main helpers.

     The lecture, however, in the hands of an able man will still have
the utmost importance in stimulating and giving facts and principles

their proper relative prominence.

                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y chap, xviii

I think we should get pretty nearly what is wanted by grafting a

College de France on to the University of London, subsidising

University College and King's College                  (if     will get rid of its tests,

                                                           it

not otherwise), and setting up two or three more such bodies in
other parts of London. (Scotland, with smaller population than
                                                       !)
London, has four complete universities                    a

should hand over the whole business of medical education
I

                                  a
and graduation to medical universitas to be constituted by the

royal colleges and medical schools, whose doings, of course, would

be checked by the Medical Council.

Our side has been too apt to look upon medical schools as

feeders for Science. They have been so, but to their detriment as
medical schools. And now that so many opportunities for purely

scientific training are afforded, there                        no reason they should
                                                       is
remain so.                                                    is is

The problem of the Medical University to make an average

man into good practical doctor before he twenty-two, and with
It
not more expense than can be afforded by the class from which
      is
             a
doctors are recruited, or than will be rewarded by the prospect of

an income of £400 to £500 year.      a

not right to sacrifice such men, and the public on whom
                                                                     per cent of
they practise,    for  othf escipernocsep.e--ct    of  making  1      faithfully,            medical
students into   men                              Ever   yours very
                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

An undated draft in his own handwriting (probably the

draft of speech delivered the first time he came to the
:
committee as President, October 26)                    expands the same                      idea
           aas to the modern requirements of the
                                                       University --
                                                                     :
The cardinal fact in the University question appears to me to be                  ;

this that the student to whose wants the mediaeval University was

adjusted, looked to the past and sought book-learning, while the

modern looks to the future and seeks the knowledge of things.

The mediaeval view was that all knowledge worth having was

explicitly or implicitly contained in various ancient writings in the

Scriptures, in the writings of the greater Greeks, and those of the

Christian Fathers. Whatever apparent novelty they put forward,

was professedly obtained by deduction from ancient data.
     The modern knows that the only source of real knowledge lies

in the application of scientific methods of inquiry to the ascertain

ment of the facts of existence that the ascertainable                                        infinitely
is

                                                      ;

                                                                                       a is
greater than the ascertained, and that the chief business of the

teacher not so much to make scholars as to train pioneers.

From this point of view, the University occupies                                             position

altogether independent of that of the coping-stone of schools for

1892 LONDON UNIVERSITY REFORM                                                   3"

general education, combined with technical schools of Theology,

Law, and Medicine. It is not primarily an institution for testing
the work of schoolmasters, or for ascertaining the fitness of young

men to be curates, lawyers, or doctors.
     It is an institution in which a man who claims to devote himself

to Science or Art, should be able to find some one who can teach

him what is already known, and train him in the methods of

knowing more.

     I include under Art, -- Literature, the pictorial and plastic art
with Architecture, and Music ; and under Science, -- Logic, Philo

sophy, Philology, Mathematics, and the Physical Sciences.

     The question of the connection of the High Schools for general
education, and of the technical schools of Theology, Law, Medicine,

Engineering, Art, Music, and so on, with the University is a matter
of practical detail. Probably the teaching of the subjects which

stand in the relation of preliminaries to technical teaching and final

studies in higher general education in the University would be

utilised by the colleges and technical schools.
All that I have to say on this subject
         I                                       that                           see no reason

                                                                     it
                                                                         a is,

                                                           I
why the existing University of London should not be completed in

the sense have defined by grafting upon          professoriate with the

appropriate means and appliances, which would supply London with
the analogue of the Ecole des hautes Etudes and the College de
France in Paris, and of the Laboratories with the Professor Extra

ordinarius and Privat Docenten in the German Universities.

     A new Commission was promised to look into the wholeis
question of the London University. This referred to in
                                                        :
  letter to Sir Donnelly of March 30, 1892 --
a        is J.
Unless you want to kill Foster, don't suggest him for the Com
      I
mission. He on one already.
                  perfect muddle of competing crude projects
The whole affair  is
                     a
                                 likely to end in worse muddle, as
                          iIs, is
and vested interests, and                        a

anything but patch up              believe, outside practical politics at
         a

present.          I

    If had carte blanche, should cut away the technical "Faculties"a

of Medicine, Law, and Theology, and set up first-class chairs inI

Literature, Art, Philosophy, and pure Science -- sort of combina

tion of Sorbonne (without Theology) and College de France.
      Thank Heaven have never been asked to say anything, and

my chimaeras remain in petto. They would be scouted.

      On the other hand, he was most anxious to keep the
School of Science at South Kensington entirely independent.

He writes again on May 26 --
                                   :

3«

    I trust Riicker and Thorpe are convinced by this time that I
knew what I was talking about when I told them, months ago, that

there would be an effort to hook us into the new University hotch

-potch.
     II am ready to oppose any such project tooth and nail.
                                                                      have

not been striving these thirty years to get Science clear of their

Ischoolmastering sham-literary peddling to give up the game without
a fight.       hope my Lords will be staunch.
     I am glad my opinion is already on record.

     And similarly to Sir M. Foster on October 30 :--

     You will have to come to London and set up physiology at the
Royal College of Science. It is the only place in Great Britain in

which scientific teaching is trammelled neither by parsons nor by
               I have always implored Donnelly to keep us clear of
litterateurs.

any connection with a University of any kind, sort, or description,
     I tried to instil the same
and                              lesson   into  the doctors the other day.
But  the " liberal education "   cant is   an
                                                obsession of too many of

them.

     A further step was taken in June, when he was sent

a new draft of proposals, afterwards adopted by the above-
mentioned general meeting of the Association in March,

1893, sketching a constitution for a new university, and
asking for the appointment of a Statutory Commission to

carry it out. The University thus constituted was to be
governed by a Court, half of which should consist of

university professors 1 ; it was to include such faculties as
Law, Engineering, Medicine, while it was to bring into

connection the various teaching bodies scattered over London.

     1 " As for a government by professors only " (he writes in the Times of Dec.
6, 1892), "the fact of their being specialists is against them. Most of them are

broad-minded, practical men ; some are good administrators. But, unfortunately,

there is among them, as in other professions, a fair sprinkling of one-idea'd
fanatics, ignorant of the commonest conventions of official relation, and content
with nothing if they cannot get everything their own way. It is these persons

who, with the very highest and purest intentions, would ruin any administrative

body unless they were counterpoised by non-professional, common-sense members
of recognised weight and authority in the conduct of affairs."
against the adoption of a German university system, he continues,  "  F urthermore,

                                                                      In holding up
the University of Berlin as our model, I think you fail to attach sufficient weight
to the considerations that there is no Minister of Public Instruction in these

realms ; that a great many of us would rather have no university at all than one
under the control of such a minister, and whose highest representatives might come

to be, not the fittest men, but those who stood foremost in the good graces of the

powers that be, whether Demos, Ministry, or Sovereign.''

1892 LONDON UNIVERSITY REFORM                                                     3'3

The proposers themselves recognised that the scheme was
not ideal, but a compromise which at least would not
hamper further progress, and would supersede the Gresham
scheme, which they regarded as a barrier to all future

academic reform.

      The Association as thus constituted Huxley now joined,
and was immediately asked to accept the Presidency, not
that he should do any more militant work than he was
disposed to attempt, but simply that he should sit like
Moltke in his tent and keep an eye on the campaign.

      He felt it almost a point of honour not to refuse his
best services to a cause he had always had at heart, though

he wrote :--

     There are some points in which I go further than your proposals,
but they are so much, to my mind, in the right direction that I

gladly support them.

     And again :--

     The Association scheme is undoubtedly a compromise-- but it

is a compromise which takes us the right way, while the former
schemes led nowhere except to chaos.

He writes to Sir W. H. Flower :--

                                                     Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                  June 27, 1892.

My dear Flower -- I had quite given up the hope that anything

but some wretched compromise would come of the University

Commission, when I found, to my surprise, no less than gratifica

tion, that a strong party among the younger men were vigorously

taking   the matter up in the right (that            is,my)       sense.
     In                                                           " hermit old in mossy
         spite  of all my good resolves              to be a if
cell,"   have                                         service   if  nothing better.
                enlisted -- for ambulance
a
  I

                     is

                                      :
                                                  a
The move too important to spare oneself one can be of any
good. -- Ever yours very faithfully,                              T. H. Huxley.

     Of his work in this position Professor Karl Pearson says,
in letter to me --

Professor Huxley gallantly came to lead                           a  somewhat forlorn

hope, -- that of establishing                        really great university in London. He

worked, as may naturally be supposed, with energy and persistence,

3»4

and one, who like myself was not in full sympathy with the lines he
took, can but admire the vigour he threw into the movement.
Nothing came of it practically ; . . . but Professor Huxley's leadership
did, at any rate, a great deal to unite the London teachers, and
raise their ideal of a true university, while at the same time helping
to repress the self-interests of many persons and institutions which
had been before very much to the front.

      Clearly this is the sort of thing referred to in a letter of

December 20 :--

      Got through the Association business very well, but had to show

Ithat am the kind of head that does not lend itself to wagging by

the tail.

     The Senate of the University of London showed practical

unanimity in accepting the idea of taking on teaching

functions if the Commission should think it desirable, though

the Medical Schools were still desirous of getting their

degree granted on the mere license examination of the

Royal Colleges, without   oannyJuelvyide2n8ceHuoxf legyenewrrailtesc:u--lture  or
academical training, and

     The decision of the representatives of the Medical Schools is
Ijust such as I should have expected.
                                       always told my colleagues
in the Senate of the University of London that such was their view,
and that, in the words of Pears' advertisement, they " would not be
happy till they got it."

     And they won't get it unless the medical examining bodies are

connected into a distinct degree-giving body.

     In the course of the autumn matters seemed to be
              He writes to Sir M. Foster, November 9 :--
progressing.

     I am delighted to say that Paget has taken up the game, and I
Ifam going to a committee of the University this day week to try my
powers of persuasion.     the Senate can only be got to see where

salvation lies and strike hard without any fooling over details, we

shall do a great stroke of business for the future generations of

Londoners.

     And by the end of the year he writes :--

    I think we are going to get something done, as the Senate of the
U.L. has come into line with us, and I hope University College will

do the same.

1892 LONDON UNIVERSITY REFORM                                                              315

     Meanwhile he was asked if he would                      appear         before the
Commission and give evidence -- to " talk                    without        interroga
tion " so as to convince the Commission of the inadequacy

of the teaching of science in general and of the absence of

means and appliances for the higher teaching. This he did

early in January 1893, representing partly his own views,

partly those of the Association, to whom he read what he

proposed to say, before being authorised to speak on their

behalf.

     His position is finally defined by the following letter :--

                                                                            Feb. 9, 1893.

          Dear Professor Weldon --I wish anything I have said or shall
say about the organisation of the new University to be taken in

connection with the following postulates which I conceive to be of

primary importance :
          1. The New University is not to be a separate body from the

present University of London.
              All
          2.  be "  persons giving academic         instruction of a certain rank
          to        University Professors."
are

of    3.      T"hUeniSveenrastiety  is to contain   a large  proportion of  representatives
     the                              Professors "   with a   limited term   of office (say

five years).

          4. The University chest is to receive all fees and other funds
                                                    Professors are to be paid out of
for University purposes ; and       the             University -- thus putting an end
    according to work done for      the
it,
        5.
to the present commercial competition of teaching institutions.
              In all questions of
the                                 Teaching, Examination, and Discipline
          authority of the Senate
                                      to be supreme -- (saving appeal to the
                                    is
Privy Council).
                                                             if

                                                                                                                                  ;
     Your questions will be readily answered                 these postulates are

kept in view.
          In the case you put, the temptation to rivalry would not exist

and should imagine that the Senate would refuse funds for the
     I

purpose of duplicating an existing Institution, unless very strong
grounds for so doing could be shown. In short, they would adopt the

plan which commends itself to you.

     That to which am utterly opposed the creation of an Estab
                    4I
                           I

                                                   a
                                                              is

                                                                                   is is
                                                                                                 aa

                                                                                                                          a
lished Church Scientific, with                      hierarchical organisation and

professorial Episcopate.            am fully agreed with you that all trading

competition between different teaching institutions                         thing to be

abolished (see No. above).                                                  very good
      On the other hand, intellectual competition

3i6              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                             chap, xvim

thing, and perfect freedom of learning and teaching the best of

all things.

     If you put a physical, chemical, or biological bishop at the head

of the teachers of those sciences in London, you will do your best
to destroy that freedom. My bar to any catastrophe of that sort

lies in No. 3. Let us take the case of Biology. I suppose there

will be, at least, half a dozen Professoriates in different branches
of this subject ; each Professor will be giving the same amount of

time and energy to University work, and will deserve the same pay.
Each, if he is worth his salt, will be a man holding his own views

on general questions, and having as good a right as any other to

be heard. Why is one to be given a higher rank and vastly greater

apra"ctUicnailverisniftlyuePnrcoefesthsaonr  "  all the rest ?   Why should not each     be
                                                 and have his   turn on the Senate in    in

fluencing the general policy of the University ? The nature of things

drives men more and more into the position of specialists. Why

should one specialist represent a whole branch of science better

than another, in Council or in Administration ?

     I am afraid we cannot build upon the analogy of Cambridge.
In the first place London is not Cambridge ; and, in the second,

Michael Fosters do not grow on every bush.

      The besetting sin of able men is impatience of contradiction
and of criticism. Even those who do their best to resist the

temptation, yield to it     almost unconsciously and become           "  the tools
of toadies and flatterers.      " Authorities," " disciples," and        schools "

are the curse of science ; and do more to interfere with the work

of the scientific spirit than all its enemies.
                 will understand why I have so strongly opposed
"     Thus you   No one can feel more strongly than I the need of
   absorption."

getting the present chaos into order and putting an end to the

absurd waste of money and energy. But I believe that end may
be attained by the method of unification which I have suggested ;

Iw" iatbhsoourpt tibvreing" inreggiimnenittsattiroani.n the evils which will inevitably flow from

      What want to see is such an organisation of the means and
appliances of University instruction in all its branches, as will con

duce to the largest possible freedom of research, learning, and
teaching. And if anybody will show me a better way to that end
      fothllroowughhimt.h--e mI eaamsuryeosursI                    I
than                                             have suggested,      will gladly leave  all
and                                              very faithfully,     T. H. Huxley.

    P.S. --Will you be so kind as to let Professor Lankester see
this letter, as I am writing to him and shirk the labour of going

over the whole ground again.

     His last public activity, indeed, was on behalf of Univer
sity reform, when in January 1895 he represented not

1894 LONDON UNIVERSITY REFORM                                                 317

only the Association, but, in the enforced absence of Sir
James Paget, the Senate of the University also, on a deputa
tion to Lord Rosebery, then Prime Minister, to whom
he wrote asking if he were willing to receive such a

deputation.

                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                             Dec. 4, 1894.

    Dear Lord Rosebery--A number of scientific people, in fact
I think I may say all the leading men of science, and especially
teachers in the country, are very anxious to see the University of

London reorganised upon the general principles set forth in the

Report of the last Royal Commission.

     To this end nothing is wanted but the institution of a strong

Statutory Commission ; and we have all been hoping that a Bill

would be introduced for that purpose.                        But even lions

     It is rumoured that there are lions in the path.

are occasionally induced to retreat by the sight of a large body of
beaters. And some of us think that such a deputation as would

willingly wait on you, might hasten the desired movement.

but  We proposed    something  of the kind   --tonoMt,r.  I  Acland months    ago,
     nothing has  come of the    suggestion                    am sure, from   any

want of good will to our cause on his part.

    Within the last few days I have been so strongly urged to bring

the matter before you, that in spite of some doubts as to the

Ipropriety of going beyond my immediate chief the V.P. even
in my private capacity  venture to make this appeal. -- I am, dear
                                             Thos. H. Huxley.
Lord Rosebery, faithfully yours,

CHAPTER XIX

                                                  1892

Several letters of this year touch on educational subjects.

The following advice as to the best training for a boy in

science, was addressed to Mr. Briton Riviere, R.A. :--

                                      Hodeslea, June 19, 1892.

    My dear Riviere--Touching the training of your boy who
wants to go in for science, I expect you will have to make a com

promise between that which is theoretically desirable and that which

Iis practically most advantageous, things being as they are.
    Though I say it that shouldn't, don't believe there is so good

a training in physical science to be got anywhere as in our College

at South Kensington. But Bernard could hardly with advantage

take this up until he is seventeen at least. What he would profit

by most as a preliminary, is training in the habit of expressing him

self well and clearly in English; training in mathematics and the

ethleomseentlsangoufagpehsysiceaal silsyc--ienecespe; ciianllyFreGnechrmaannd  ;  German, so as to   read
                                                                                                       for
                                                                                   in drawing-- not
hifalutin art, of which he will probably have enough in the blood --
but accurate dry reproduction of form -- one of the best disciplines
of the powers of observation extant.

On the other hand, in the way of practical advantage in any

career, there is a great deal to be said for sending a clever boy to

Oxford or Cambridge. There are not only the exhibitions and

scholarships, but there is the rubbing shoulders with the coming

generation which puts a man in touch with his contemporaries as

hardly anything else can do. A very good scientific education is to

be had at both Cambridge and Oxford, especially Cambridge now.
In the case of sending to the university, putting through the
                                                                                  And if he is not
Latin and Greek mill will be indispensable.

going to make the classics a serious study, there will be a serious

waste of time and energy.

1892 THE STATE AND INTERMEDIATE EDUCATION 319

IfSo much in all these matters depends on the x contained in
the boy himself.  he has the physical and mental energy to make
a mark in science, I should drive him straight at science, taking

care that he got a literary training through English, French, and
German. An average capacity, on the other hand, may be im

mensely helped by university means of flotation.
     But who in the world is to say how the x will turn out, before

the real strain begins ? One might as well prophesy the effect of a
glass of " hot-with " when the relative quantities of brandy, water,
Iand sugar are unknown.
                         am sure the large quantity of brandy
and the very small quantity of sugar in my composition were

suspected neither by myself, nor any one else, until the rows into

which wicked men persisted in involving me began !

    And that reminds me that I forgot to tell the publishers to send

you a copy of my last peace-offering, and that one will be sent you

by to-morrow's post. There is nothing new except the prologue,

the sweet reasonableness of which will, I hope, meet your approba

tion.

     It is not my fault if you have had to toil through this frightfully

l"onTgu  ls'acrseevdoul;u,MrGse. oRrgievsiereD,antodinw.h"o--m    our   love,  said  you wanted   it.
                                                                Ever   yours   very  faithfully,

                                                                               T. H. Huxley.

      The following deals with State intervention in inter

mediate education :--

     (For Sunday morning's leisure, or take it to church and read it

in your hat.)

                                                                       Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                               Oct. 1, 1892.

     My dear Donnelly -- Best thanks for sending on my letter.

II do not suppose it will do much good, but, at any rate, thought

I ought to try to prevent their making a mess of medical education.

    I like what I have seen of Acland. He seemed to have both

intelligence and volition.

    As to intermediate education I have never favoured the notion

of State intervention in this direction.

    I think there are only two valid grounds for State meddling with

education : the one the danger to the community which arises from

dense ignorance ; the other, the advantage to the community of
giving capable men the chance of utilising their capacity.

IfThe first furnishes the justification for compulsory elementary
education.        a child is taught reading, writing, drawing, and

handiwork of some kind ; the elements of mathematics, physics,
and history, and I should add of political economy and geography ;

320                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                          chap, xix

books will furnish him with everything he can possibly need to

make him a competent citizen in any rank of life.

    If with such a start, he has not the capacity to get all he needs

out of books, let him stop where he is. Blow him up with inter

mediate education as much as you like, you will only do the fellow

a mischief and lift him into a place for which he has no real

qualification. People never will recollect, that mere learning and
mere cleverness are of next to no value in life, while energy and

intellectual grip, the things that are inborn and cannot be taught,

are everything.

     The Technical Education Act goes a long way to meet the second

claim of the State ; so far as scientific and industrial capacities are
                    In a few years there will be no reason why any poten
concerned.

tial Whitworth or Faraday, in the three kingdoms, should not

readily obtain the best education that is to be had, scientific or

technical. The same will hold good for Art. So the question that

arises seems to me to be whether the State ought or ought not to

do something of the same kind for Literature, Philosophy, History,

and Philology.

    I am inclined to think not, on the ground that the universities

and public schools ought to do this very work, and that as soon as

      cease to be clericalised seminaries   they probably will do
         the present government would      only give up their Irish
Ifthey                                               it                      fad --
                                                       it
and bring in bill to make                                   is

                                                            I
                                                                                            !
                                                                                               it.
                                                                                     if
I II                                  it  penal for any parson to hold any

            aoffice inpublic   school or university   or to    presume   to teach
                   aoutside thethey should have my   valuable   support
                    pulpit --

        should not wonder Gladstone's mind open on the subject.
                               if

Pity am not sufficiently       it.    persona grata with him to offer to go to
                                   a
Hawarden and discuss

        quite agree with you, therefore, that will play the deuce

intermediate education         is     fossilised as  would be by any Act

prepared under present influences. The most should like to see

done, would be to help the youth of special literary, linguistic and

so forth, capacity, to get the best training in their special line.

     It  was lucky we did not go to you. My wife got an awful dose

of neuralgia and general upset, and was laid up at the Hotel.

The house was not quite finished inside, but we came in on

Tuesday, and she has been getting better ever since in spite of

the gale.

         am sorry to hear of the recurrence of influenza.                it It
    I
                                                                                is
        it                                                                            a

                          I
beastly thing. Lord Justice Bowen told me he has had                         every
         has been in the country. You must come and try East
time

bourne air as soon as we are settled.                With our love to you and
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
Mrs. Donnelly -- Ever yours,

      Better be careful,       return all letters on which R.H.          is  not in
full.

             ON SCIENTIFIC ASPIRATIONS                          321

      The next is to a young man with aspirations after an

intellectual career, who asked his advice as to the propriety
of throwing up his business, and plunging into literature or

science :--

                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                             Nov. 5. 1892.

IDear Sir -- am very sorry that the pressure of other occupa

tions has prevented me from sending an earlier reply to your letter.
     In my opinion a man's first duty is to find a way of supporting

himself, thereby relieving other people of the necessity of support

ing him. Moreover, the learning to do work of practical value in

the world, in an exact and careful manner, is of itself a very import

ant education, the effects of which make themselves felt in all other

pursuits. The habit of doing that which you do not care about

when you would much rather be doing something else, is invaluable.

It would have saved me a frightful waste of time if I had ever had it

drilled into me in youth.

IfSuccess in any scientific career requires an unusual equipment
of capacity, industry, and energy.  you possess that equipment

you will find leisure enough after your daily commercial work is

Ifover, to make an opening in the scientific ranks for yourself.

you do not, you had better stick to commerce. Nothing is less to
be desired than the fate of a young man, who, as the Scotch proverb
says, in " trying to make a spoon spoils a horn," and becomes a mere

hanger-on in literature or in science, when he might have been a
         and a valuable member of Society in
Iuseful  think that your father ought to      oseteherthoicscupleatttieorn.s--. Yours
                                                 T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

      The last of the series, addressed to the secretary of a

free-thought association, expresses his firmly rooted disgust
at the use of mere ribaldry in attacking the theological
husks which enclose a religious ideal.

                                                 May 22, 1892.

    I IDear Sir -- regret that am unable to comply with the wish
I Iof your committee. For one thing, am engaged in work which
Ido not care to interrupt, and for another, always make it a rule in
Ithese matters to "fight for my own hand"
                                                 do not desire that
Ianyone should share my responsibility for what think fit to say,
and I do not wish to be responsible for the opinions and modes of

expression of other persons.                     , who is a sober

    I do not say this with any reference to Mr.

and careful writer.  But both as a matter of principle and one of

     VOL. II                                                             Y

322                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                   chap, xix

policy, I strongly demur to a great deal of what appears as " free
thought " literature, and I object to be in any way connected with
Iit. Heterodox ribaldry disgusts me, confess, rather more than
orthodox fanaticism. It is at once so easy ; so stupid ; such a com

plete anachronism in England, and so thoroughly calculated to dis

gust and repel the very thoughtful and serious people whom it ought
to be the great aim to attract. Old Noll knew what he was about
when he said that it was of no use to try to fight the gentlemen of
England with tapsters and serving-men. It is quite as hopeless to
fight Christianity with scurrility. We want a regiment of Ironsides.

     This summer brought Huxley a most unexpected dis
tinction in the shape of admission to the Privy Council.
Mention has already been made (Vol. I. p. 386) of his reasons
for refusing to accept a title for distinction in science, apart

from departmental administration. The proper recognition
of science, he maintained, lay in the professional recognition
of a man's work by his peers in science, the members of the
learned societies of his own and other countries.

      But, as has been said, the Privy Councillorship was an

office, not a title, although with a title attaching to the office ;
and in theory, at least, a scientific Privy Councillor might

some day play an important part as an accredited repre
sentative of science, to be consulted officially by the Govern

ment, should occasion arise.
      Of a selection of letters on the subject, mostly answers

to congratulations, I place first the one to Sir M. Foster,

which gives the fullest account of the affair.

                                       Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth,

                                               Aug. 23, 1892.

     My dear Foster --I am very glad you think I have done rightly
Iabout the P.C. ; but in fact I could hardly help myself.

      Years and years ago was talking to Donnelly about these
Ithings, and told
                                                                                  would
have nothing to                                                                to other
                    him that so far as myself    --wadsidcno'nt ceorbnjeedc,t
                   do with official decorations

                     them, especially  heads   of offices, like  Hooker        and
                   preferred to keep    clear  myself. But         added       that
Ipeople

Flower
     --habvuint g    I did not mind telling him, because no English
                     ever act upon my opinion -- and that was that
there was one thing
Government would

the P.C. was a fit and proper recognition for    secvieenrcesincaend--         letters.
                                                                               in fact
I have no doubt that he has kept this in mind

Lord Salisbury's letter (which was very handsome) showed he had

1892                                                                                               323

been told of my obiter dictum. Donnelly was the first channel of
Iinquiry whether I would accept, and was very strong that should.
     So you see if I had wished to refuse
                                                                it,         would have been diffi
                                                                   it

cult and ungracious. But, on the whole, thought the precedent
                                                                I

good. Playfair tells me he tried to get done in the case of Fara
                                                          it

day and Babbage thirty years ago, and the thing broke down. More
over wicked sense of the comedy of advancing such pernicious
      a                                                                           a
                        a
                          it it

                       is iIs,
heretic, helped good deal.

     The worst of                 have just had summons to go to Osborne
                                                  I
on Thursday and                                              a
                           as much as shall be able to do.

     We have been in South Wales, in the neighbourhood of the

Colliers, and are on our way to the Wallers for the Festival week at

Gloucester. We hope to get back to Eastbourne in the latter half

of September and find the house clean swept and garnished. After

that, by the way,          not nice to say that we shall hope to have
    I

                            it
                                    is

                                                                                                                                                !

                                                                                                                        a
visit from  oMurrslo. vFeostoteryoaundboytohu--.  Ever    yours,                  T. H. Huxley.
      With

            am glad you are resting, but oh, why another Congress

                                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                    Jutu 2i, 1892.

     My dear Donnelly -- You have been and done me at last,
you betrayer of confidence. This what comes of confiding one's

pet weakness to bosom-friend
                     a                         !
                         it
                              is                      is

     Bumtemorcyan--'t adnedn, ymmoryeoovwern,  words, or the accuracy             of your devil
of  II a                                           think the precedent             of great im
         I                                     I

portance.

        have always been dead against orders of merit and the like,
but think that men of letters and science who have been of

use to the nation (Lord knows                     it. if  have) may fairly be ranked
among its nominal or actual councillors.             I

     As for yourself              only one more kindness on the top of heap
                                                                                     a

so big shall say nothing about
      I

     Mrs.   Rpigrohutd.H--onEovuerrabyleourssenvdesryhefar itlohvfuelltyo,  you   both, and promises
     to be
not                                                                               T. H. Huxley.

                                                  Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth,

                                                                  Aug. 20, 1892.

     My     dear     Donnelly     -- began        to think that Lord Salisbury                     had
thought               of --                                                                          he
            better                should not       have been surprised at all
                           it                                                     a

                                (I                                                         if

                                   II
had) and was going to leave me a P.P.C. instead of                                P.C. when
the announcement appeared yesterday.

     This morning, however,                    received his own letter (dated                      the

             which   had   been following me about.                         is A very nice letter
            he does   the  thing handsomely while he                            about
to6ot--h),1                                                                       it.
                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                       is

324               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                           CHAP. XIX

     I IWell, think the thing is good for science ; am not such a

self humbug as to pretend that my vanity is not pleasantly tickled ;

Ibut do not think there is any aspect of the affair more pleasant to
me, than the evidence it affords of the strength of our old friend

ship. Because with all respect for my noble                       friends, deuce     a one
                                                                  not only put
rwuobubleddeve--r ihnatvoe   thought of   it,  unless you had              !         -- but
                            their heads.
I                                                                                  it

         it
        have not forgotten that private and confidential document that
                                                                                     You have
tyroiuedwereonsobedfiosrgeus--tedso  to find had  been  delivered  to  me
                                     don't deny   it.
     it

      But bless my soul, how profound             a is  old Cole's remark about the
humour of public affairs. To think of
                                                        Conservative Government --
pride of the Church -- going out of its way to honour one not only

of the wicked, but of       tthohivneegrsnottooinriDotuohselegsettlhlyreaeynedsktienprgldadaioynm---sspo--dkoeannydowuiecvkkeenrdoynwensosw.
My wife and drove                                                                    (I
one of the loveliest
        ?                                                                                 it

          I                                                                                      ?

               I
and then had a laugh over this very quaint aspect of the affair.

     Can you tell me what shall have to do in the dim and distant
                                     I

future       suppose shall have to go and swear somewhere                                  am
                            I

always ready to do that on occasion).                             Is admission to the awful

presence of H.M. involved? Shall have to rig up again in that
                                                  I

Court suit, which hoped was permanently laid up in lavender?
                            I
                              I
Resolve me these things.

     We shall be here expect at least another week and bring up
                                                                       ;

at Gloucester about         ofthSeept3ermd beSre. p--temEbveerr.      Hope to get    back  to
Hodeslea latter part                                              yours faithfully,

                                                                   T. H. Huxley.

                            To Sir D. Hooker
        is
                                                                                Aug. 20.
                   I
                         Ia                                            P.C. If had
                                I J.

                                                                               a

                                                     I

                                                                                      it a
                                                                                                  ! is

                                                                    I

                                                                                                                     ;a
     You will have seen that have been made

been offered to be made                   police constable        could not have been

more flabbergasted than was when the proposition came to me

few weeks ago.              will tell you the story of how all came about

when we meet. The Archbishopric of Canterbury                                        the only

object of ambition that remains to me.                            Come and be Suffragan
there plenty of room at Lambeth and                               capital garden

                  To his Youngest DaughterI

                                                 Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth,

                                                                            Aug. 22, 1892.

    Dearest Babs --If Lord Salisbury had known my address, M

and should have had our little joke out before leaving Saundersfoot,1

                           Where he had been staying with his daughter.

1892 CREATED A PRIVY COUNCILLOR 325

as the letter was dated 16th. It must be a month since Lord

Cranbrook desired Donnelly to find out if I would accept the P.C,
and as I heard no more about it up to the time of dissolution, I
Iimagined there was a hitch somewhere. And really, the more

think of it the queerer does it seem, that a Tory and Church

Government should have delighted to honour the worst-famed heretic

in the three kingdoms.

    I am sure Donnelly has been at the bottom of
                                                                          a            as he              the
                                                                                     is it,

                                                                                                      is
only person to whom ever spoke of the fitness of the P.C. for men
                               is
of science and letters.
                                   is I
      The queer thing that his chief and Lord Salisbury listened to

the suggestion.                simply snuffed out--younger sons of peers go with
                                                                                       of precedence
     Tell Jack he
the herd    of                 foarndlovkeniogrhtms onebye--lievaen.d   But table        wearing.
   not to   be  Barts.                   I                             my anxiety
                 had
is

      This place as perfectly delightful as Aberystwith was t'other. . . .
                           is

With best love to you all-- Ever your                                                  Pater.

                               To Mrs. W. K. Clifford

                                               Con-y-Gedal Hotbl, Barmouth,

                                                             Aug. 22, 1892.

      My dear Lucy -- am glad to think that                                         the honours that
                               it                                      I

                                  is I                                     it
                                                                                is
blush and not the recipient, for am past that form of vascularis

congestion.                                  ; it I                       would accept was
                                                                                       .
     It was known that the only peerage                 if                                a.

spiritual one and as H.M. shares the not unnatural prejudice which                                     a
      a
led her illustrious predecessor (now some time dead) to object toS.
give bishopric to Dean Swift, was thought she could not stand
                        ;
the promotion of Dean Huxley would see him in fact .                   1

      Lord apologised for not pressing the matter, but pointed out

that, as Evolutionism                    rapidly gaining ground among the people

who have votes,                was probable,                not certain, that his eminent

successor (whose mind                    always open) would become                                        hot

evolutionist before the expiration of the eight months' office which

Lord (who needs rest) means to allow him. And when eminentS.

Ifsuccessor goes out, my bishopric will be among the Dissolution
Honours.                   H.M. objects she will be threatened with the

immediate abolition of the H. of Lords, and the institution of                                            a

social democratic federation of counties, each with an army, navy,

and diplomatic service of its own.

        know you like to have the latest accurate intelligence, but this
      I

                                                                1
                                                                     is
                                                                                    a

                                                                                a

                                                               I
really   must be           considered confidential.                    As P.C. might lose                 my
head    for letting                                                    your affectionate
                            out State secrets. -- Ever

                                         This  pun.                                    PATER.

326  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                 CHAP. XIX

                     To Sir Joseph Fayrer

                                       Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth, Wales,

                                                                     Aug. 28, 1892.

    IIt is very pleasant to get the congratulations of an old friend

like yourself. As we went to Osborne the other day looked at

the old Victory and remembered that six and forty years ago I went

up her side to report myself on appointment, as a poor devil of an

assistant surgeon. And I should not have got that far if you had

not put it into my head to apply to Burnett.

                  To Sir Joseph Prestwich

                                                 Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth,

                                                                            Aug. 31, 1892.

     My dear Prestwich -- Best thanks for your congratulations.

IAs have certainly got more than my temporal deserts, the other

"half" you speak of can be nothing less than a bishopric! May

Iyou live to see that dignity conferred ; and go on writing such

capital papers as the last you sent me, until write myself your
Right Revd. as well as Right Honble. old friend,

                                                               T. H. Huxley.

     To Sir W. H. Flower

                              Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth,

                              Aug. 31, 1892.

     My dear Flower --Many thanks for your congratulations, with
ILady Flower's postscript not forgotten.
                                          should have answered
Iyou letter sooner, but had to go to Osborne last week in a hurry,
kiss hands and do my swearing. It was very funny that the

Gladstone P.C.'s had the pleasure of welcoming the Salisbury P.C.'s

among their first official acts !

    I Iwill gladly come to as many meetings of the Trustees as can.

Only you must not expect me in very severe weather like that so
common last year. My first attack of pleurisy was dangerous and

not painful ; the second was painful and not dangerous ; the third

will probably be both painful and dangerous, and my commander-

in-chief (who has a right to be heard in such matters) will not let
me run the risk of it.

    But I have marked down Oct. 22 and Nov. 24, and nothing

short of snow shall stop me.

1892 THE PRIVY COUNCILLORSHIP                                                                       327

    As to what you want to do, getting butter out of a dog's mouth

is an easier job than getting patronage out of that of a lawyer or an
               IBut am always good for a forlorn hope, and we will
ecclesiastic.

have a try.

      We shall not be back at Eastbourne till the latter half of

ISeptember, and doubt if we shall get into our house even then.

We leave this for Gloucester,                     where we          --areWigthoinogurtolovsepentdo   the
festival week with my daughter                    to-morrow.        T. H. Huxley.                   you

both, ever yours very faithfully,

    II see a report that Owen is sinking. Poor old man ; it seems

queer that just as am hoist to the top of my tree he should be
going underground. But at 88 life cannot be worth much.

                                To Mr. W. F. Collier

                                            Con-y-Gedal Hotel, Barmouth Water,

                                                               Aug. 31, 1892.

    IAccept my wife's and my hearty thanks for your kind con
gratulations.  When I was a mere boy                                took for motto of an

essay, "What is honour? Who hath it? He that died o'
Wednesday," and although I have my full share of ambition and
Ivanity,
               doubt not, yet Falstaff's philosophical observation has
Idominated my mind and acted as a sort of perpetual refrigerator to
these  passions.                eSxopectehdavenongeon--e   my  own way, sought for     none of
these  things and                                         and  it would seem that the   deepest

nscehwemBeera'stitpuodleic, y"  could not   have  answered          better. We must have a
                                Blessed is   the  man who           expecteth nothing," with

out its ordinary appendix.

    I tell Jack 1 I have worked hard for a dignity which will enable

me to put down his aristocratic swaggering.

     It took some time,         however,                   to  get  used  to  the  title,           and
                                he wrote
it  was October before                                    :--

    IThe feeling that "The Right Honble." on my letters is a piece

of chaff is wearing off, and hope to get used to my appendix in

time.

    The " very quaint " ceremony of kissing hands is de

scribed   at   some length                  in a letter to Mrs.               Huxley                from
London    on   his way back
                                            from Osborne :--

                                1 His son-in-law, Hon. John Collier.

328              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                        CHAP. XIX

                                             Great Western Hotel,

                                                    Aug. 25, 1892, 6.40 p.m.

    I Ihave

minutes to
     just got back        from Osborne, and          find there are a few
     send you a                                      the extra halfpenny.
                        letter -- by the help of

First-rate weather there and back, a special train, carriage with
postillions at the Osborne landing-place, and a grand procession of
                                                                  Then waiting
officers of the  nveawriouhsou"seshtioclkds  and P.C.'s therein.
about while the                              " were delivered.

      Then we were shown into the presence chamber where the

Queen sat at a table. We knelt as if we were going to say our
prayers, holding a testament between two, while the Clerk of the

ICouncil read an oath of which heard not a word. We each

advanced to the Queen, knelt and kissed her hand, retired back

wards, and got sworn over again (Lord knows what I promised and

vowed this time also). Then we shook hands with all the P.C.'s
present, including Lord Lome, and so exit backwards. It was all

very curious. . . .

      After that a capital lunch and back we came. Ribblesdale and

I Iseveral other people knew were of the party, and found it very

pleasant talking with him and Jesse Collings, who is a very interesting

Iman.

      " Oh,"
ing woman
     --he asgaride,at"  how    wwoismhanmy--paonodr  mother, who was a labour
                        noble                        brought us nine all up in

right ways, could have been alive." Very human and good and

dignified too, I thought.

     He also used to tell how he was caught out when he

thought to make use of the opportunity to secure a close

view of the Queen. Looking up, he found her eyes fixed
upon him ; Her Majesty had clearly taken the opportunity

to do the same by him.

     Regarding the Privy Councillorship as an exceptional

honour for science, over and above any recognition of his

personal services, which he thought amply met by the Civil

List pension specially conferred upon him as an honour at

his retirement from the public service, Huxley was no little

vexed at an article in Nature for August 25 (vol. xlvi. p.
397), reproaching the Government for allowing him to leave

the public   service six years               Dboefnonree,llywiotnhouAtugursetcog27nit:--ion.
Accordingly
             he wrote to Sir J.

     It is very unfair to both Liberal and Conservative Governments,

1892 THE PRIVY COUNCILLORSHIP  329

who did much more for me than I expected, and I feel that I ought

to contradict the statement without loss of time.

    ISo have written the inclosed letter for publication in Nature.

But as it is always a delicate business to meddle with official

Imatters, I wish you would see if I have said anything more than
ought to say in the latter half of the letter. If so, please strike it

out, and let the first half go.

    I had a narrow shave to get down to Osborne and kiss hands

on Thursday. What a quaint ceremony it is !
     The humour of the situation was that we three hot Unionists,

White Ridley, Jesse Collings, and I, were escorted by the whole
Gladstonian household.

And again on August 30 :--

    IIn the interview
Iorder of merit --ages
I considered myself
                      aghoad1--withexLproersdslySaglaisvbeuhryimontothuendseurbsjetactndotfhaant
                      out of the running -- having already received
Imore than had any right to expect. And when he has gone out
of his way to do honour to science, it is stupid of Nature to strike

the discordant note.

      His letter appeared in Nature of September i (vol. xlvi. p.
4 1 6). In it he declared that both Lord Salisbury's and Mr.
Gladstone's Governments had given him substantial recogni
tion ; that Lord Iddesleigh had put the Civil List pension
expressly as an honour ; and finally, that he himself placed
this last honour in the category of " unearned increments."

                                                         * See p. 164.

                      CHAPTER XX

                                                   1892

The following letters are mainly of personal interest ; some

merely illustrate the humorous turn he would give to his
more intimate correspondence ; others strike a more serious
note, especially those to friends whose powers were threatened
by overwork or ill-health.

      With these may fitly come two other letters ; one to a
friend on his re-marriage, the other to his daughter, in reply
to a birthday letter.

IMy wife and send our warmest good wishes to your future wife
Iand yourself.
                  cannot but think that those who are parted from us,
if they have cognisance of what goes on in this world, must rejoice

oinverit--eveersyptheicniagllythaot fretnhdoesres  life better and  brighter for  the  sojourners
                                                   who are dear     to them.           least, that
                                                                                  At

would be my feeling.

      Please commend us to Miss                           , and     beg her not to put us on
the " Index," because we count                     ourselves        among your oldest and

warmest friends.

             To his Daughter, Mrs. Roller

                                                                   Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                                      May 5, 1892.

     It was very pleasant to get your birthday letter and the photograph,

which is charming.
     The love you children show us, warms our old age better than

the sun.

     For myself, the sting of remembering troops of follies and
errors, is best alleviated by the thought that they may make me

Ibetter able to help those who have to go through like experiences,

and who are so dear to me that would willingly pay an even

1892 LETTERS                                                                                                       331

heavier price, to be of use. Depend upon                              that confounded " just
                                                               a
                                                                     it,

                                                                                                 a
man who needed no repentance " was very poor sort of father.

But perhaps his daughters were "just women" of the same type;

and the family circle as warm as the interior of an ice-pail.

A certain artist, who wanted to have Huxley sit to him,

tried to  manage the             mfoaltlotewr ingthrouagdhdrehsissedson---in-law,                            Hon.  J.
Collier,  to whom the
                                 it
                                       is                      Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                             a
                                             is

                                                         if
                                                                                    :
My dear Jack--Inclosed                                                   Jan. 27, 1892.
                                                      letter for you. Will you commit

the indiscretion of sending on to Mr. A. B. you see no reason

to the contrary
II
                              ?
         hope the subsequent proceedings will interest you no more.
         am sorry you have been so bothered by the critter -- but in
point of pertinacity he has met his match.
                                 if                                   have no objection to

your saying that your father-in-law it                         brute, you think that will
                                         is
soften his disappointment.)
                                               is
                                                      a

                                                        if (I
Here the weather has been tropical. The bananas in the new
garden are nearly ripe, and the cocoanuts are coming on. But of

course you expect this, for                           unbearably sunny in London what

itmust be here?

    All our loves to all of you. --Ever yours affectionately,

                                                                                  Pater.

                                                               Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                      Feb.
                                                                                            is        1892.
My dear Hooker-- hear you have influenza rampaging about
          ;                                                                                      if 1,
            1

                  I

                            it,

                          I
the Camp  and want to point out to you that                                                             you want   a

regular bad bout of the best thing you can do to go home next

Thursday evening, at ten o'clock at night, and plunge into the

thick of the microbes, tired and chilled.

    If you don't get then, you will, at any rate, have the satisfac
I
                                 it
                                                  is
tion of feeling that you have done your best
                                                               I
                                                                   !
         am going to the x, but then you see fly straight after dinner
to Collier's per cab, and there no particular microbe army in Eton

Avenue lying in wait for me.

      Either let me see after the                     dinner,  or sleep in town, and don't
                                                                          T. H. Huxley.
worry. -- Yours affectionately,

                                                               Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

My dear Hooker-- have just received                                   Feb. 19, 1892.

         is                                                                                 notice that Hirst's

                            I

                                    J.

                                                                                         a
funeral   to-morrow. But we are in the midst of the bitterest

          The name of Sir Hooker's house at Sunningdale.

332           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                             CHAP. XX

easterly gale and snowfall we have had all the winter, and there is no

Isign of the weather mending.

     Neither you nor have any business to commit suicide for that

which after all is a mere sign of the affection we have no need to

prove for our dear old friend, and the chances are that half an hour

I Icold chapel and grave-side on a day like this would finish us.

        write this not that imagine you would think of going, but
because my last note spoke so decidedly of my own intention.

condBituiot nwsh?o--cEovueldr  have anticipated this         sudden reversion to Arctic
                               yours affectionately,                  T. H. Huxley.

                                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                     March 18, 1892.

     My dear Donnelly --My wife got better and was out for a while

yesterday, but she is knocked up again to-day.

     It would have been very pleasant to see you both, but you must

Inot come down till we get fixed with a new cook and maid, as

I Ibelieve we are to be in a week

         mourn over the departure
                                      or so.                 None    of your  --hotebl-eglioeivneg  !
                                      of the                present   cookie
                                                                                                    she

is going for no other reason than that she is afraid the house will fall

on such  thuengmooddleyrnpemopalretyrdasomwe--ayroeu,       and involve her in     the    ruins.
That is                                                     don't roast infidels,  but   people

who can roast go to the pious.

      Lovely  day to-day, nothing but                 east   wind to      remind one it is not
              Crocuses coming out at                  last.               yours very faithfully,
summer. --                                                   -- Ever

                                                                          T. H. Huxley.

                                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                    April 3, 1892.

     My dear Hooker -- As I so often tell my wife, "your confounded
sense of duty will be the ruin of you." You really, club or no club,

had no business to be travelling in such a bitter east wind. However,
I II
     hope the recent           sunshine has set you up again.             be  at  " the  Club       "
        Barring snow
                               or any other catastrophe, I will

dinner on the 26th and help elect the P.R.S.                              don't think go
Imore than once a year, and like you find the smaller the pleasanter

meetings.                                                             What a first-rate man

    I was very sorry to see Bowman's death.

of science he would have been if the Professorship at King's College

Ihad been jQ i ooo    a year.    But  it was mere starvation when he held it.
                       say that   my
       am glad to                     wife is much better -- thank yours for
Iher

you.
     v--eryEvkeirndyosuyrsmpaaftfheyct.ionaItelwy,as  very  down     the  last time wrote           to

                                                                          T. H. Huxley.

1892 LETTERS                                                                              333

                                                           Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                  March 27, 1892.

    My dear Hooker-- I had to run up to town on Friday and
Iforgot your letter. The x is a puzzle -- will stick by the ship as
Ilong as you do, depend upon that.
                                                fear we can hardly expect to see
Idear old Tyndall there again. As for myself, dare not venture
when snow is on the ground, as on the last two occasions. And

now, I am sorry to say, there is another possible impediment in my

wife's state of health.                                                                   But sich

    I have had a very anxious time of it altogether lately.

is life !

     My sagacious granddaughter                 a?Jog"oyc--e""B(Igeocdnaeousne'htoImwnaeonttinceotwo )thgarootbwsgerorvuwepnd."

t"oWhheyr  grandmother some time
           don't you want to grow up

up  7pe!--oplEevehravyeouars  great deal of     trouble."  Sagacious philosopheress
of
                               affectionately,                    T. H. Huxley.

                                                           Hodeslea, June 27, 1892.

     My dear Foster -- My wife has been writing to Mrs. Foster to

arrange for your visit, which will be heartily welcome.

    Now I don't want to croak. No one knows better than I, the

fatal necessity for any one in your position : more than that, the duty
in many cases of plunging into public functions, and all the guttle,

guzzle, and gammon therewith connected.

     But do let me hold myself up as the horrid example of what

            of that sort of thing for men       who                       "toluwngoyrk "
           and have done. To be sure            you
Icomes                                                      have                          as you are
                                                           are a
doing                                                                                     man and I

am a "livery" man, so that your chances of escaping candle-snuff

accumulations with melancholic prostration are much better. Never

Itheless take care. The pitcher is a very valuable piece of crockery,

and don't want to live to see it cracked by going to the well once

too often.

    I am in great spirits about the new University movement, and

have told the rising generation that this old hulk is ready to be towed
     into line of battle, if
out  public spirit than my    they think        --fit,Ewvehricyhouisrsm, oTre.  commendable  to
my                            prudence.
                                                                                H. Huxley.

                                                           Hodeslea, June 20, 1892.

     My dear Romanes -- My wife and I, no less than the Hookers

who have been paying us a short visit, were very much grieved to

hear that such serious trouble has befallen you.
hygieInnicsucchoncdaitsieosnsasayreouersver(aysthiIngam--sguoroedyoauirr
                                                                          doctors have    told you)
                                                                          and idleness,   construed

334                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         chap, xx

Istrictly, among the chief. You should do as have done--set up a

garden and water it yourself for two hours every day, besides pottering

about to see how things grow (or don't grow this weather) for a

couple more.

     Sundry box-trees, the majority of which have been getting browner

every day since I planted them three months ago, have interested

me almost as much as the general election. They typify the Empire
with the G.O.M. at work at the root of it! -- Ever yours very
                                                                  T. H. Huxley.
faithfully,

                                                                   Hodeslea, Oct. 18, 1892.

    My dear Romanes --I throw dust and ashes on my head for
having left your letter almost a week unanswered. But I went to

Tennyson's funeral ; and since then my whole mind has been given

to finishing the reply forced upon me by Harrison's article in the
IFortnightly, and                                                       I think it will
                                  have let correspondence      slide.
entertain you when                 it appears in November              perhaps interest
I--" Rboymathneesa"duLmecbtruarteionat                        -- and    if ever that

                                  of the  line          mean  to  take
                                  Oxford  comes         off.
      As to Madeira -- I do not think you could do better. You can

have as much quiet there as in Venice, for there are next to no carts

or carriages. I was at an excellent hotel, the " Bona Vista," kept by

an Englishman in excellent order, and delightfully situated on the

Iheights outside Funchal. When once acclimatised and able to bear

moderate fatigue, should say nothing would be more delightful and

invigorating than to take tents and make the round of the island.

IThere is nothing have seen anywhere which surpasses the cliff

scenery of the north side, or on the way thither, the forest of heaths

as big as sycamores.

      There is a matter of natural history which might occupy without

fatiguing you, and especially without calling for any great use of the

etryaenss.porteTdhatthiesret--he   effect of Madeiran   climate on      English plants
                                  and the way in which    the latter   are beating the

natives. There is a Doctor who has lots of information on the topic.

You may trust anything but his physic.

     [The rest of the letter gives details about scientific litera
ture touching Madeira.]

     A piece of advice to his son anent building a house :--

                                                                       Sept. 22, 1892.

      Lastly and biggestly, don't promise anything, agree to anything,

nor   sign   anything  ad(svwiceear--yooruyoaure    an  "illiterate voter" rather than
this  last)  without                              may   find yourself in a legal quag

mire. Builders, as a rule, are on a level with horsedealers in point

892 LETTERS                                                                            335

of honesty -- I could tell you some pretty stories from my small

experience of them.

     The next, to Lord Farrer, is apropos of quite an extensive
correspondence in the Times as to the correct reading of the
well-known lines about the missionary and the cassowary, to
which both Huxley and Lord Farrer had contributed their

own reminiscences.

My dear Farrer--                                Hodeslea, Oct. 15, 1892.

               If you were a missionary

               In the heat of Timbuctoo

               You         'd  wbeaanrdsn--oupg'hrtapbsutcaassnoiccke  and   airy
               Pair        of                                          too.

Don't you see the fine touch of local colour in my version ! Is it

not obvious to everybody who understands the methods of high a

priori criticism that this consideration entirely

Iempirical fact that your version dates back to
                                                1o8u3tw7 e--ighwshicthhe               merely
                                                                                          must

admit is before my adolescence?          It is obvious                   "   to the   meanest
                                                                             Idee,"  whatever
capacity that  m"ineWirmkluicsht kebiet  the original text in
your wretched                            " may have to say to            the matter.
IAnd where, should like to know, is a glimmer of a scintilla of
IadeahrinNt atthioant althCehumrcishs.io--naEryverwaysouars,dissenter ?
                                                                          claim him for my

                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

      The following is about a document which he had for

gotten that he wrote :--

                                                Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                       Nov. 24, 1892.

My dear Donnelly -- It is obvious that you have somebody in

Ithe Department who is an adept in the imitation of handwriting.

     As there is no way of proving a negative, and am too loyal to
Iraise a scandal, will just father the scrawl.
I IPositively,
               had forgotten all about the business.                                 suppose
Ibecause did not hear who was appointed. It would be a good
Iargument for turning people out of office after 65 ! But have
always had rather too much of the lawyer faculty of forgetting things

when they are done with.
     It was very jolly to
                           have you      here,  and on principles of Christian
benevolence you must       not be so     long
                                                in coming again. -- Ever yours,

                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

    I do not remember being guilty of paying postage -- but that

doesn't count for much.

336         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       chap, xx

      The following is an answer to one of the unexpected

inquiries which would arrive from all quarters. A member

of one of the religious orders working in the Church of

England wrote for an authoritative statement on the

following point, suggested by                     passages in           --section 5                    of
Chapter I. of the " Elementary                    Physiology "
                                                                        : When                        the

Blessed Sacrament, consisting, temporarily and mundanely

speaking, of a wheaten wafer and some wine, is received
after about seven hours' fast, is it or is it not " voided like
other meats " ? In other words, does it not become com

pletely absorbed for the sustenance of the body ?

     Huxley's help in this physiological question -- and his
answer was to be used in polemical discussion --was sought

because an answer from him would be decisive and would

obviate the repetition of statements which to a Catholic were

painfully irreverent.

                                                              Hodeslea, Feb. 3, 1892.

    ISir -- regret that you have had to wait so long for a reply to
Iyour letter of the 2 7th. Your question required careful consideration,

and have been much occupied with other matters.
     You ask (1), whether the sacramental bread is or is not "voided

like other meats"?

     That depends on what you mean, firstly by "voided," and,

secondly, by "other meats." Suppose any "meat" (I take the
word  to    include drink)  "tvooidceodnta" inat  no          --indifigebsytib"levoidreinsigdu"umis,   there
need  not    be anything                           all                                                meant

expulsion   afrommeatthme ilgohwt ebr ein"tecsotimnep.letely  absorbed  for the sustenance
      Such

Iof the                                          its elements,  in fresh   combinations,
                                                 through other  channels,  e.g. the lungs
would
      beboedvye."ntualNlyeve"rtvhoeidleesds,  "

and kidneys. Thus should say that under normal circumstances
all "meats" (that is to say, the material substance of them) are
voided sooner or later.
     Now, as to the particular case of the sacramental wafer and

wine. Taking their composition and the circumstances of administra

tion to be as you state them, it is my opinion that a small residuum

will be left undigested, and will be voided by the intestine, while by
far the greater part will be absorbed and eventually "voided" by

the lungs, skin, and kidneys.

    If anyone asserts that the wafer and wine are voided by the
Iintestine as such, that the "pure flour and water" of which the

wafer consists pass out unchanged, am of opinion he is in error.

1892 LETTERS                                                                                           337

     On the other hand, if anyone maintains that the material
substance of the wafer persists, while its accidents change, within

Ithe body, and that this identical substance is sooner or later voided,

  do not see how he is to be driven out of that position by any
scientific reasoning. On the contrary, there is every reason to
believe that the elementary particles of the wafer and of the wine
which enter the body never lose their identity, or even alter their

mass. If one could see one of the atoms of carbon which enter
into the composition of the wafer, I conceive it could be followed

the whole way -- from the mouth to the organ by which it escapes --

just as a bit of floating charcoal might be followed into, through, and

out of a whirlpool.

    On October 6, 1 892, died Lord Tennyson. In the course

of his busy life, Huxley had not been thrown very closely

into contact with him ; they would meet at the Metaphysical

Society, of which Tennyson was a silent member ; and in

the Life  voisfiteTdennhyimson: --two      occasions  are recorded     on which
Huxley

    Nov. 11, 187 1. -- Mr. Huxley and Mr. Knowles arrived here

(Aldworth) on a visit. Mr. Huxley was charming. We had much
talk. He was chivalrous, wide, and earnest, so that one could not

but enjoy talking with him. There was a discussion on George

Eliot's humility. Huxley and A. both thought her a humble woman,

despite a dogmatic manner of assertion that had come upon her

latterly in  her                        (Op. cit.     no.)
      March   17,                    Professor
                                                   Tyndall
                   w1ri8ti7n3g.s--.                ii.      and  Mr.  Huxley                         called.

                                                                                     1

                                                                                                  ii.
Mr. Huxley seemed to be universal in his interest, and to have
keen enjoyment of life. He spoke of In Metnoriam. (Ibid. 143.)

    With this may be compared one of Mr. Wilfrid Ward's

reminiscences       (Nineteenth           Century, August 896).        scientific
                   once spoke            strongly of the insight into
     " Huxley
method shown in Tennyson's In Memoriam, and pronounced

it  to be quite equal to that of the greatest experts."

    This view      of Tennyson             appears again in a          letter              to          Sir
    Foster, the     Secretary of
M.                                         the Royal Society          --
                                                                      :
                                                                                        ?
    Was not Tennyson                 a   Fellow of the Royal Society? If so,
                                       it
should not the President and Council take some notice of his death

and delegate some one to the funeral to represent them                                                 Very

likely you have thought of already.
    He was the only modern poet, in fact think the only poet since
                                                      I

the time of Lucretius, who has taken the trouble to understand the

work and tendency of the men of science.                                       Z

     VOL. II

338             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                               chap, xx

     But this was not the only side from which he regarded

poetry. He had a keen sense for beauty, the artistic per

fection of expression, whether in poetry, prose, or conversation.
Tcheanrnaycstoenri'sstict--alkperhfeectdesscimribpelidcityt,huws i:tho" uDtoraicny
                                                                                    beauty is  its
                                                                                     ornament  or

raenmyitnhiisncgencaerstific:--ial."  And again, to quote Mr. Wilfrid Ward's

     ITennyson he considered the greatest           English master of melody
except Spenser and Keats.             told him      of Tennyson's insensibility

to music, and he replied that it was curious that scientific men, as a
rule, had more appreciation of music than poets or men of letters.
He told me of one long talk he had had with Tennyson, and added

that immortality was the one dogma to which Tennyson was

passionately devoted.                 said :  " He  really  has                     music in  him.

     Of Browning, Huxley

Read his poem   The Thrush and you will see it. Tennyson said to
me," he added,  " that Browning had plenty of music in him, but he

could not get it out."

                                                    Eastbourne, Oct. 15, 1892.

     My dear Tyndall--I think you will like to hear that the

funeral yesterday lacked nothing to make it worthy of the dead or

the living.

     Bright sunshine streamed through the windows of the nave,

while the choir was in half gloom, and as each shaft of light

illuminated the flower-covered bier as it slowly travelled on, one
thought of the bright succession of his works between the darkness
Ibefore and the darkness after.
                                              am glad to say that the Royal

Society was represented by four of its chief officers, and nine of the

commonalty, including myself. Tennyson has a right to that, as the

first poet since Lucretius who has understood the drift of science.

     We have heard nothing of you and your wife for ages. Ask her
to give us news, good news I hope, of both.
                                                            with                    me  in love. --
     My wife is better than she was, and joins              T. H. Huxley.

Ever yours affectionately,

      On his way home from the funeral in Westminster Abbey,
Huxley passed the time in the train by shaping out some
lines on the dead poet, the form of them suggested partly by
some verses of his wife's, partly by Schiller's

                              Gib diesen Todten mir heraus,
                              Ich muss ihn wieder haben,*

                                             1 Don Carlos, Sc. ix.

1892 DEATH OF TENNYSON                                                             339

which came back to his mind in the Abbey. The lines were

published in the Nineteenth Century for November 1892.
He declared that he deserved no credit for the verses ; they
merely came to him in the train.

      His own comparison of them with the sheaf of professed
poets' odes which also appeared in the same magazine, comes
in a letter to his wife, to whom he sent the poem as soon as

it appeared in print.

     I know you want to see the poem, so I have cut it and the rest

out of the Nineteenth just arrived, and sent it.

    If I were to pass judgment upon it in comparison with the others,
I should say, that as to style it is hammered, and as to feeling

human.

     IThey are castings of much prettier pattern and of mainly poetico-
classical educated-class sentiment.              do not think there is a line

of mine one of      my old working-class audience would have                         boggled
        I            give a penny for John Burns' thoughts                         about it.
over.  --    would  impartial and valuable criticism.)
            Highly
(N.B.

     He also wrote to Professor Romanes, who had been
moved by this new departure to send him a volume of his
own poems :--

                                                 Hodeslea, Nov. 3, 1892.

     IMy dear Romanes -- must send you a line to thank you very
                             poems. A
                             -- notably                                            me much that
                                                                                   which shall
much for your

Ihas my strong
                 volume of                I get  "swPiafttegrlanlocqeusithuorw,"s
                   sympathy
                                          weigh
                      as soon as                 her back. Against all troubles
                      my share)                  a wife-comrade " treu und fest "
I Iread

(and
       to my wife
         have had

Iin all emergencies.                 for  the Nazarenism of Jesus --very little
        have  a great respect       But
for  later "  Christianity."              the only religion that appeals to me

is prophetic Judaism. Add to it something from the best Stoics
and something from Spinoza and something from Goethe, and there
Iis a religion for men. Some of these days               think I will make a

cento out of the works of these people.
    I
       find it   haTrdheen"ouGgihb  to write decent prose and have usually
stuck  to that.
                                    diesen Todten " I am hardly responsible

for, as it  did itself coming down        here   in the  intraitnheaftAebr bTeeyn. n--ysEovne'sr
funeral.    The notion came into          my     head    T. H. Huxley.

yours very faithfully,

     This winter also Sir R. Owen died, and was buried at

34°                                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                            chap, xx

Ham on December 23. The grave ends all quarrels, and
Huxley intended to be present at the funeral.
                                                                                                                 But as he
wrote to Dr. Foster on the 23 rd :--

    I had a hard morning's work at University College yesterday,
Iand what with the meeting of the previous evening and that infernal
fog, felt so seedy that I made up my mind to go straight home

and be quiet. . . .
     I IThere has been a bitter north-easter all day here, and if the like
has prevailed at Ham               am glad           kept out of                                                 as am by no
                                                                                                             it,
means fit to cope with anything of that kind to-day.
                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                 do not think

was bound to offer myself up to the manes of the departed, how
I

                                !

                    it
ever satisfactory that might have been to the poor old man. Peace

be with him

     But the old-standing personal differences between the

two made                           difficult for him to decide what to do with

regard to a meeting to raise some memorial to the great

anatomist. He writes again to Sir M. Foster, January                                                                          8,

1893:-

      What am to do about the meeting about Owen's statue on the
    st? do not wish to pose either as humbugging approver or
as sulky disapprover. The man did honest work, enough to deserve
his statue, and that all that concerns the public.

    And on the 18 th --
2
  1
    a

        I
             I

                                    is
                                                                                   a

                                   :

                                          II
         am inclined to think that had better attend the meeting at
all costs. But do not see why should speak unless am called
is                                                                                                           I
upon to do so.                                                                                                      I
  it I I
       I                                                                                                          honestly can of
           I
                it I                                                                                             said about some
goof od--ahboaonvuetthenOowcoeennat'rrsathrwyly,orko--bsjheaocntudilodnthbeetroewseallympaulelclahstehdtaot  be  do so.
                                   I                                                                         to
                                      I

                                                              ; is

                                                            if
     But have no reparation to make                                                   the business were to come

over again, should do as did. My opinion of the man's character

     exactly what was, and under the circumstances there                                                               is     sort
                                                                                                                           a

of hypocrisy about volunteering anything, which goes against my

grain.
     The best
resolution for  position for       --methewnoutlhde  be to be                         asked                      to second the
                  the statue                          proposer                        would                      have the field

of personal fiction and butter-boat all to himself.

                             VIEWS ON OWEN'S WORK                                                 341

                             To Sir W. H. Flower

                                                                                  Dec. 28, 1892.

      I think you are quite right in taking an active share in the

movement for the memorial. When a man is dead and can do no

                                                                                          merits

more harm, one must do a sum in subtraction, deserts and if the

                                                                      X +x+x       But I
x's are not all minus quantities, give him credit accordingly.

Ifthink that in your appeal, for which the                 Committee will         be respon
sible, it    is this balance of solid   --sciwenhticifhic                         big one in
Owen's       case after all deductions                     merit --a good
                                                                                  r"efaersreimd plteo-.
                                                           should be alone
you follow the example of Vanity Fair and call him

minded man, who, had he been otherwise, would long ago have

adorned a title," some of us may choke.

      Gladstone, Samuel of Oxford, and Owen belong to a very curious

type  of humanity,           --wuittthermaunnytruestxwceolrltehnint esasn. d  even great qualities and
one   fatal defect                                                              Peace be with two of

them, and may the political            death of the        third be speedy and                   pain
                                                           yours very faithfully,
less !-- With our united best          wishes, ever

                                                                              T. H. Huxley.

      And on January 22, 1893, he writes of the meeting :--

      My dear Hooker -- . . . What queer corners one gets into
Iif one only lives long enough ! The grim humour of the situation

when was seconding the proposal for a statue to Owen yesterday
tickled me a good deal. I do not know how they will report me in
Ithe Times, but if they do it properly think you will see that I said
Ino word upon which could not stand cross-examination.
      I Ichose the office of seconder in order that
                                                                                  might clearly
define my position and stop the mouths of blasphemers -- who would

have ascribed silence or absence to all sorts of bad motives.

      Whatever the man might be, he did a lot of first-rate work, and

now that he can do no more mischief he has a right to his wages

for it.
If Imyself.                                       I expect to
             on" lyMalinvye  another   ten years                              be  made a saint of
                             a better  man has    been made                   a
                                                                                  saint of," as  "  old
David Hume      said         to   his housekeeper  when they                       chalked up       St.
David's Street  " on         his  wall.

    IWe have been jogging along pretty well, but wife has been

creaky, and got done up in a brutal London fog struggling with

the worse fog of the New University.                                          adventure. -- Ever yours

    I am very glad you like my poetical                                             T. H. Huxley.

affectionately,

342                         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                            chap, xx

     This speech had an unexpected sequel. Owen's grand

son was so much struck by it that he wrote asking Huxley

ttoheubnodoekrt--akeanoathcerriticmaol stacucnoeuxnptecotfedhisturannaotofmeivceanl tsw. orkIt                  for
                                                                                                                  is

not often that a conspicuous opponent of a man's specula

tions is asked to pass judgment upon his entire work.*
     At the end of the year an anonymous attack upon the

administration of the Royal Society was the occasion for

some characteristic words on the endurance of abuse to his

old friend, M. Foster, then Secretary of the Royal Society.

                                                                                                 Dec. 5, 1892.

     My dear Foster--The braying of my donkey prevented me
from sending a word of sympathy about the noise made by yours.
. . . Let not thine heart be vexed because of these sons of Belial.
It is all sound
                            and fury with   nothing at the bottom                                a   of         and will
leave no trace                 year hence.      have been abused                                           it,deal
            I                                                                                                   worse --
                   a
                                      !

                                I
                                      if I is
without the least effect on my constitution or my comfort.
     In fact, am told that Harrison
                                                         abusing me just now like                                     aa

pickpocket in the Fortnightly, and only make the philosophical
creroflwecnt.io--n, EvNeor
                            wonder and doubt         the  reading                                it       worth half
                            yours affectionately,                                                     is
                                                                   T.                                     Huxley.
                                                                                                 H.

     The following letter to Mr. Clodd, thanking him for the

new edition of Bates' Naturalist on the Amazons, helps to

remove a reproach sometimes brought against the Royal

Society, in       that ignored              the claims of                                      --distinguished  men
of Science        to membership             of the Society
                            it

                                                                                              :

                                                          Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

     My dear Mr. Clodd -- Many thanks for                                                        Dec. 9, 1892.
   Bates." was reading the Life last night with
"           is I                                                                                 the new edition of
                                                                                                 great interest; some

of the letters you have printed are admirable.

     Lyell                  hit off to the life.     never read more penetrating
                                                  I       is
                                                                a
character-sketch.           Hooker's letter of advice as sage as might be

expected from               man who practised what he preached about as
   I
         I                              shall find material for chaff the next time

                              a

                   I

                                     a

                         I
much as have done.

my old friend and meet.                                                                                               a
         think you are little hard on the Trustees of the British

IfMuseum, and especially on the Royal Society. The former are

hampered by the Treasury and the Civil Service regulations.

                                        1   See p. 364.

                         LETTER TO CLODD                                                      343

Bates turned up now I doubt if one could appoint him, however

much one wished     it            unless he would submit to some idiotic
                        is a it,
examination.        As to the Royal Society,            undertake to say that
                                       it

                                                          a

                                                   I

                                                                      if

                                                                                       is
Bates might have been elected fifteen years earlier                                      he had so

pleased. But the Council cannot elect man unless he proposed,

and always understood that was the res angusta which stood in
It I

     is
the way.

          the same with           . (Twenty years ago) the Royal Society

awarded him the Royal Medal, which about as broad an invitation
                                       a
                                                is
to join us as we could well give man. In fact, do not think he
                                                        I
has behaved well in quite ignoring it. Formerly there was heavyI
                                                                         a
                                                                      a        a
entrance fee as well as the annual subscription. But dozen or

fifteen years ago the more pecunious Fellows raised large sum of
money for the purpose of abolishing this barrier. At present man
                                                                                           a

has to pay only £3 year and no entrance.                believe the publica

tions of the Society, which he gets, will sell for more.*
                                       fault of
      So you see            not   the  on the     the   RooyfalmeSaoncsi.e--tyif    anybody
who ought to be     in keeps      out            score                          Ever yours
                                                        T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

*  The " Fee Reduction Fund," as       it        now called, enables the Society to
                                           is

relieve a Fellow from the payment even of his annual fee, so that being F. R.S.

costs him nothing.

                 CHAPTER XXI

                                          1893

The year 1893 was, save for the death of three old friends,
Andrew Clark, Jowett, and Tyndall, one of the most tranquil

and peaceful in Huxley's whole life. He entered upon no

direct controversy ; he published no magazine articles ; to

the general misapprehension of the drift of his Romanes

Lecture he only replied in the comprehensive form of Pro

legomena to a reprint of the lecture. He began to publish

his scattered essays in a uniform series, writing an intro                          "
                                                                " Darwiniana
duction to each volume. While                   collecting his
for the second volume, he wrote                 to Mr. Clodd    :--

                                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                             Nov. 18, 1892.
Ido
I was looking    Ithrough Man's Place in                     Nature the other day.  add

not think there   is a word need delete,                      nor anything I need

except in confirmation and extension of the doctrine there laid

down. That is great good fortune for a book thirty years old, and

one that a very shrewd friend of mine implored me not to publish, as
                                                             I said, like the French
fitoxw-houunldterceinrtaPinulnych,ru"inI  all my prospects.
                                          shall try."

     The shrewd friend in question was none other than Sir

William Lawrence, whose own experiences after publishing
his book On Man, " which now might be read in a Sunday
school without surprising anybody," are alluded to in Vol. I.

p. 191.

      He had the satisfaction of passing on his unfinished

work upon Spirula to efficient hands for completion ; and

in the way of    new occupation,                was thinking of some         day
" taking up the  threads of late                evolutionary speculation     " in

1893 BIBLICAL CRITICISM                                                                     343

the theories of Weismann and others,* while actually planning
out and reading for a series of " Working- Men's Lectures on

the Bible," in which he should present to the unlearned the

results of scientific study of the documents, and do for

theology    what he had    doounteinfohriszonooltoeg-byoothkirrtuynsyeaas rsfolbloewfosr:e--.
      The  scheme drawn

 I.        The subject and the     --mtehtehopdlaocfe
           Physical conditions   ::
II.                                                                           it.
                                                       treating                    in  the  Old

                                                        of Palestine

III.           World.  of  Israel  --Judges,           Samuel,                   Kings as far as
           The Rise
           Jeroboam II.
IV. The Fall of Israel.

    V. The Rise and Progress                      of Judaism.  Theocracy.
   VI. The Final Dispersion.

 VII. Prophetism.
VIII. Nazarenism.
IX. Christianity.

X. Muhammedanism.
XI. and XII. The Mythologies.

      Although this scheme was never carried out, yet was                              it
constantly before Huxley's mind during the two years left to
it
him. If Death, who had come so near eight years before,
                                      a
would go on seeming to forget him, he meant to use these
                                              itlast days of his life in an effort to illuminate one more
portion of the field of knowledge for the world at large.
           1
     As the physical strain of the Romanes Lecture and his
liability to loss of voice warned him against any future
attempt to deliver course of lectures, he altered his design
and prepared to put the substance of these Lectures to
Working-Men intc a Bible History for young people. And
indeed, he had got so far with his preparation, that the latter
heading was down in his list of work for the last year of his
life, 1895. But nothing of was ever written. Until the
work was actually begun, even the framework upon which

   was to be shaped remained in his mind, and the copious
marks in his books of reference were the mere guide-posts
to a strong memory, which retained not words and phrases,
but salient facts and the knowledge of where to find them

again.

                                See letter of September 28, to Romanes.

346  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                      chap, xxi

      I find only two occasions on which he wrote to the Times

this year ; one, when the crusade was begun to capture the
Board Schools of London for sectarianism, and it was

suggested that, when on the first School Board, he had
approved of some such definite dogmatic teaching. This he
set right at once in the following letter of April 28, with
which may be compared the letter to Lord Farrer of

November 6, 1894.

     In a leading article of your issue to-day you state, with perfect

accuracy, that I supported the arrangement respecting religious

instruction agreed to       by the London           tSo cshaoyolthaBtoa"rdtheinper1s8o7n1s,  and
hitherto undisturbed.        But you go on                                                   who
framed the rule " intended it to include definite teaching of such

theological dogmas as the Incarnation.

    I cannot say what may have been in the minds of the framers
Iof the rule ; but, assuredly, if had dreamed that any such inter

pretation could fairly be put upon                      should have opposed the
                                              it,I
arrangement to the best of my ability.
     In fact, year                                 I
                          before                                         Swcrhotoeolsa--n wahrtaitcletheiyn
     Contemporary         Review,                     I

                                                                  it
                                                                       is
the  I                             the rule   w"asThferamBeodard
                    a               entitled
                         a
                    :I
can do, and what they may do," in which argued that the terms
of the Education Act excluded such teaching as
                                                                           now proposed

to include. And             supported my contention by the following

citation from speech delivered by Mr. Forster at the Birkbeck
Insti"tutiohnaveinth1e87fu0lle--st confidence that
                                                    in  the reading and explaining

of the Bible, what the children will be taught will be the great truths
of Christian life and conduct, which all of us desire they should

know, and that no effort will be made to cram into their poor little

minds, theological dogmas which their tender age prevents them

from understanding."

     The other was on a lighter, but equally perennial point

of interest, being nothing less than the Sea Serpent. In the

Times of January                   he writes, that while there no reason
     a

                                 1
                                  1,

                                  a
                                                          is
                                                                               is
against fifty-foot serpent existing as in Cretaceous seas,

still the evidence for its existence                    entirely inconelusive.

He goes on to tell how scientific friend's statement once

almost convinced him until he read the quartermaster's
deposition, which was supposed to corroborate it. The

details made the circumstances alleged by the former
impossible, and on pointing this out, he heard no more of

                       JOURNALISTIC ABSURDITIES                                      347

the story, which was a good example of the mixing up of

observations with conclusions drawn from them.

      And on the       following          day he         replies  to another         such

detailed story --

    IAdmiral Mellersh says, " I saw a huge snake, at least 1 8 feet

long," and have no doubt he believes he is simply stating a matter
Iof fact. Yet his assertion involves a hypothesis of the truth of which

  venture to be exceedingly doubtful. How does he know that what
he saw was a snake ? The neighbourhood of a creature of this kind,

Iwithin axe-stroke, is hardly conducive to calm scientific investigation,

and can answer for it that the discrimination of genuine sea-snakes

in their  nthaatitve"   element   from long-bodied fish            is   not always   easy.
Further,               back fin   " troubles me ; looks,                may say so,   very
                                                                  if I

fishy.

    If the caution about mixing up observations with conclusions,
Iwhich ventured to give yesterday, were better attended to, I think

we   sh" omueldsmheeriasrm."very  little  either  about  antiquated sea-serpents     or
new

     It is perhaps not superfluous to point out that in this,

as in other cases of the marvellous, he did not merely

pooh-pooh a story on the ground of its antecedent improba

bility, but rested his acceptance or rejection of it upon the

strength of the evidence adduced. On the other hand, the

weakness of such evidence as was brought forward time after

time, was a justification for refusing to spend his time in

listening to similar stories based on similar testimony.

     Among the many journalistic absurdities which fall in

the way of celebrities, two which happened this year are

worth recording ; the one on account of its intrinsic extrava

gance, which succeeded nevertheless in taking in quite a

number of sober folk ; the other on account of the letter it

drew from Huxley about his cat. The former appeared in the

shape of a highly-spiced advertisement about certain Manx

Mannikins,  swpehaickh--cwoeurled         walk,   draw, play,     in fact do every
thing but                                 living  pets which      might be kept by

anyone, and indeed Professor Huxley was the possessor of

a remarkably fine pair of them. Apply, enclosing stamps
etc. Of course, the wonderful mannikins were nothing more

than the pair of hands which anybody could dress up

according to the instructions of the advertiser ; but it was

astonishing how many estimable persons took them for some

348    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                               chap, xxt

lusus naturce. A similar advertisement in 1880 had been

equally successful, and one exalted personage wrote by the

hand of a secretary to say what pleasure and interest had

been excited by the description of these strange creatures,

and begging Professor Huxley to state if the account was

true.     Accordingly on January   :--27  he  writes  to his  wife,  who
was    on a visit to her daughter

     Yesterday two ladies called to know if they could see the Manx

Mannikins. I think of having a board put up to say that in the

absence of the Proprietress the show is closed.

     The other incident was a request for any remarks which
might be of use in an article upon the Home Pets of Celeb
rities. I give the letter written in answer to this, as well as
descriptions of the same cat's goings-on in the absence of its

mistress.

       To Mr. J. G. Kitton

                                          H0desleA, April 12, 1893.

     IA long series of cats has reigned over my household for the last
forty years, or thereabouts, but I am sorry to say that       have no

pictorial or other record of their physical and moral excellencies.

     The

I-- Oliver
       present occupant  of the throne is a large, young, grey       Tabby
        by name. Not      that he is in any sense a protector,         for
Idoubt whether he has the heart to kill a mouse. However, saw
him catch and eat the first butterfly of the season, and trust that

this germ of courage, thus manifested, may develop with age into

Iefficient mousing.    should say that his judgment respecting the

      As to sagacity,
warmest place and the softest cushion in a room is infallible -- his

punctuality at meal times is admirable ; and his pertinacity in
jumping on people's shoulders, till they give him some of the best
of what is going, indicates great firmness.

       To his Youngest Daughter

                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                     Jan. 8, 1893.

       I wish you would write seriously to M  . She is not behaving
well to Oliver. I have seen handsomer kittens, but few more lively,

and energetically destructive. Just now he scratched away at some

1893 HIS CATS                                                                   349

thing that M                     says cost 13s. 6d. a yard --and reduced more or

less of it to combings.
M therefore excludes him from the dining-room, and all

those opportunities of higher education which he would naturally

have in my house.
I have argued that it is as immoral to place 13s. 6d. a yard-
nesses within reach of kittens as
rings in the front garden. But in   to hang                       bracelets     and diamond
the protector (not Oliver) is sat    vain.
                                                                Oliver is    banished -- and
                                   upon. --                     In truth
                                                                             and justice aid

your Pa.

[This letter is embellished with fancy portraits of

      Oliver when most quiescent (tail up ; ready for action).               6d. a
      O. as polisher (tearing at the table leg).

      O. as plate basket investigator.

      O. as gardener (destroying plants in a pot).
     O. as stocking knitter (a wild tangle of cat and wool).
      O. as political economist making good for trade at 13s.
yard (pulling at a hassock).]

     The following to Sir John Evans refers to a piece of
temporary forgetfulness.

                                                         Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                              March 19, 1893.

My dear Evans --It is curious what a difference there is

Ibetween intentions and acts, especially in the matter of sending
cheques. The moment              saw the project of the Lawes and Gilbert
testimonial in the Times,
                                 I sent my contribution in imagination --

and it is only the arrival of this circular which has waked me up
                                 of supplementing my
tino cltohseedn.e--cesEsvitey r  yours very faithfully,  ideal  cheque by the real one

                                                                     T. H. Huxley.

     Reference has been made to the writing of the Romanes

Lecture in 1892. Mr. Gladstone had already consented to
deliver the first lecture in that year ; and early in the summer
Professor Romanes sounded Huxley to find out whether he

would undertake the second lecture for 1893. Huxley
suggested a possible bar in his precarious health ; but subject
to this possibility, if the Vice-Chancellor did not regard it

as a complete disability, was willing to accept a formal

invitation.

      Professor Romanes reassured him upon this point, and

further begged him, if possible, to be ready to step into the
breach if Mr. Gladstone should be prevented from lecturing

35°              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                        chap, xxi

in the following autumn. The situation became irresistible,
and the second of the following letters to Mr. Romanes

displays no more hesitation.

                       To Professor Romanes

                                                  Hodeslea, June 3, 1892.
      I should have written to you yesterday, but the book did not
arrive till this morning. Very many thanks for it. It looks appetis
      and I look forward to the
ing,  As to the Oxford lecture,           next course.
                                         " Verily, thou
though I thought I had finished lecturing.                           Ialmost persuadest me,"

                                                                        really should like to
Ido it ; but I have a scruple about accepting an engagement of this

important kind, which might not be able to fulfil.
      I am astonishingly restored, and have not had a trace of heart
                           But I                                     that I am, physically
trouble    for months.                   --amanqduitme aianwtaarine
speaking,    on good    behaviour                                    my condition only by

taking an amount of care which is very distasteful to me.

      Furthermore, my wife's health               am sorry to say, extremely
                        is
                            a

                                  iIs,
                                                    I
precarious. She was very ill fortnight ago, and to my very great

regret, as well as hers, we are obliged to give up our intended visit

to Balliol to-morrow. She quite unfit to travel, and cannot leave

her here alone for three days.

      think the state of affairs ought to be clear to the Vice-
I
                       in his judgment, constitutes no hindrance, and
                  If,
Chancellor.                              it

                                                    I
he does me the honour to send the invitation, shall accept                                                       it.

                        To the Same

                                                  Hodeslea, June 7, 1892.

      am afraid that age hath not altogether cleared the spirit of
if

   I
              I
mischief out of my blood and there something so piquant in the
notion of my acting as substitute for Gladstone that will be ready
                        ;                                            I
                                                                              I
                            I

                                              is
necessity arises.

  Of course will keep absolutely clear of Theology. But have

long had fermenting in my head, some notions about the relations

of Ethics and Evolution (or rather the absence of such as are
commonly     supmpaoysedex),pecwt.hich"    think will be interesting
audience as                              Without prejudice," as the             to such an
      is                                                                       lawyers say,

             I
that the sort of topic that occurs to me.

                        To the Same

                                                  Hodeslea, Oct. 30, 1892.

         had to go to London in the      middle of last week about the
Gresham University business, and
I
                                      I
                                            I

                                                                                                              a
                                         trust                       have put                                    very long

                    THE ROMANES LECTURE                                                                                                351

Inail into the coffin of that scheme. For which good service you
will forgive my delay in   replying to your letter.                                                                  read all  about
                           it " George's Gorgeous,"                                                              tout court 1
your show -- why not call
I should think that there is no living man, who, on such an

occasion, could intend and contrive to say so much and so well (in
form) without ever rising above the level of antiquarian gossip.

    IMy lecture would have been ready if the G.O.M. had failed you,
but am very glad to have six months' respite, as I now shall be able

to write and rewrite it to my heart's content.
I--" CbhuIutrwchilltruPfosatlrloatwdheet"hVeaicneGd-lCarhdeaasdntocnethilaleonrlepswrseoilcnlesd.neontt
                                                                                                           touching cap and gown

                                                                                                         Iasckoumlden'tto--tarekaellyp. art in a

As to the financial part of the business, to tell you the honest
truth, I would much rather not be paid at all for a piece of work of
Ithis kind.
                   am no more averse to turning an                                                       hoofntehsitngspe--nnqyuibtey  my
brains than     any one else in the ordinary course                                                                                    the

contrary ; but this is not an ordinary occasion. However, this is a
                             I do
pure   matter of taste, and          nopteowpalnet--toso                                                 set  a precedent which
might    be inconvenient to   other                                                                           agree to what you
                                                                                                          I

propose.

    IBy the way, is there any type-writer who is to be trusted in

Oxford ? Some time ago sent a MS. to a London type-writer,

and to my great disgust I shortly afterwards saw an announcement
that I was engaged on the topic.

      On  the       following day he writes                                                              to his  --wife,  who          was
staying   with      her youngest daughter in                                                             town
                                                                                                                 :

    The Vice-Chancellor has written to me and I have fixed May --

exact day by and by. Mrs. Romanes has written a crispy little letter

to remind us of our promise to go there, and I have chirrupped

back.

The " chirrup " ran as follows :--

                                           HOdesleA, NOV. I, 1892.

    My dear Mrs. Romanes --I have just written to the Vice-
Chancellor to say that I hope to be at his disposition any time next

IMay.

     My
          wife  is  " larking " --  am sorry to use such a word,                                                          but what
                                                                                                               bnaocka--lteirnnactihvaein--s,
she is pleased to   tell me of her doings  leaves                                                          me                                  in
                       go on Thursday to   fetch                                                         her
ILondon, whither                                                                                                                               if
Inecessary. But know, in the matter of being "taken in and done
for " by your hospitable selves, I may, for once, speak for her as

well as myself.

    Don't ask anybody above the rank of a younger son of a Peer--

352      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       CHAP. XXI

because I shall not be able to go in to dinner before him or her--
and that part of my dignity is naturally what I prize most.

     Would you not like me to come in my P.C. suit ? All ablaze

with gold, and costing a sum with which I could buy oh ! so many

books !

     Only if your  late   experiences  mseh--oudlodn'pt.rompIt    you   to instruct   your
other guests not    to   contradict                             rather                Ever
                                                                         like it. --
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

     Bon Voyage! You can tell Mr. Jones1 that I will have him

brought before the Privy Council and fined, as in the good old days,
if he does not treat you properly.

     This letter was afterwards published in Mrs. Romanes'
Life of her husband, and three letters on that occasion, and

particularly that in which Huxley tried to guard her from
any malicious interpretation of his jests, are to be found on

p. 380.

      On the afternoon of May 18, 1893, he delivered at
Oxford his Romanes Lecture, on " Evolution and Ethics,"
a study of the relation of ethical and evolutionary theory in
the history of philosophy, the text of which is that while
morality is necessarily a part of the order of nature, still the

ethical principle is opposed to the self-regarding principle on
which cosmic evolution has taken place. Society is a part
of nature, but would be dissolved by a return to the natural

state of simple warfare among individuals. It follows that

ethical systems based on the principles of cosmic evolution

are not logically sound. A study of the essays of the fore

going ten years will show that he had more than once
enunciated this thesis, and it had been one of the grounds of
his long-standing criticism of Mr. Spencer's system.

      Nevertheless, the doctrine seemed to take almost every
body by surprise. The drift of the lecture was equally mis
understood by critics of opposite camps. Huxley was

popularly supposed to hold the same views as Mr. Spencer--

for were they not both Evolutionists ? On general attention
being called to the existing difference between their views,
some jumped to the conclusion that Huxley was offering a
general recantation of evolution, others that he had discarded
his former theories of ethics. On the one hand he was

                                     1 The hotel-keeper in Madeira.

1

                                                                                     ...i·':.. in
                                                                                                      -i.- .                 i:
                                                                                    .·      .1                      .,    ·1-

                                                                                      ,: i                                i.' '.s iii ·
                                                                                                                                            :
                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                    .p .'

                                                                                             i.       i.   r- i       ;;.·.  1i                 p.  ..
                                                                                          ;i mi                       .-I-

                                                                                    ,.          1.:                   ·. ..: .i.    v .: .

                                                                                      .V                   \\ ii 'J.         j.i ,.i
                                                                                                                      .,:: Tlu
                                                                                                                                            I ;, .
                                                                                                           .i!            i'

                                                                                     v"   ;l.!f .::' \. 'Vl

                                                                           :-!i:''..,· . ;.li.                      .·' ;:                      ,a
                                                                            .
                                                                                                .

                                                                                                                          -.1 iji

                                                                                     .                ·· .mi -                              i:
                                                                                       i

                                                                        ,.· .                                i!iu.:i . iu '

                                                                                                           ·.,:»·.».,

                                                                                                             ii. .i

                                                                                                              :-:;t .,in ' ,ci
                                                      .
                                                           i
                                                                           ·

                                                                                       "

                                                                    j
                                                                                              d
                                                                                                                             '.
                                                                                                                                        ·
                                                        ,-i·            '

                                                      ...                          i-!    .           j' :
                                                                                            ;             .
                                                      ' ,-.                    ,·' ,)
                                                                  .                                                          .

                                                                                          j '''·V-1.. ,·   '.         ..i·i
                                                                                                     -         ,>
                                                                                  j     ,  .
                                                                                    .> 4
:      .·                                                         '        .· |. sv,.                                        :.             .-
  ·
                                  ,, ..               ·  ··                   -, I                                              ;.              i

                                                                                                                          .

                                            ·.                          .' ,      i   '..j: .·. .4.                                 \
                                                   i                                            ;\ j.i.i»i -
                                                      '.;: i.i .
;.'!                                                              .            .  - .'.'"i i-.:. .1- (..,,..          .i
      '                        :i                                   ..                    ».·' -'.'"J '.' iM'jl \\iil.\
         '                           4i     i.n '.\.; '.                    .                   ·. :
  ' J.' i'.!.,·.                                                                                   w rii;n
                 ;.,. -,I... i" ».i.,.i'.<·                  '       .i--."'                                                                            v.
                       -.               ..    !
                            ·".
                                ... ' ;·.
                ..
                                     i             ,·i.i ii-;:;-                           ·
                                              .                                                         i| i.
                                                  4
                                                                                                                 i:;
.                                                                              >r i;. u; .·.                                                    . i..-,
   ,.

                                                                     '

                                                 , 1 -'.-,n.|,.'i > . ! -.                                                   i :·



                 THE ROMANES LECTURE                                            353

branded as a deserter from free thought ; on the other,

hailed almost as a convert to orthodoxy. It was irritating,

but little more than he had expected. The conditions of the

lecture forbade any reference to politics or religion ; hence
much had to be left unsaid, which was supplied next year
in the Prolegomena prefacing the re-issue of the lecture.

      After all possible trimming and compression, he still

feared the lecture would be too long, and would take more

than an hour to deliver, especially if the audience was likely

to be large, for the numbers must be considered in reference
to the speed of speaking. But he had taken even more
pains than usual with it. " The Lecture," he writes to Pro

fessor Romanes on April 19, "has been in type for weeks,
if not months, as I have been taking an immensity of trouble

over it. And I can judge of nothing till it is in type." But

this very precaution led to unexpected complications. When

the proposition to lecture was first made to him, he was not
sent a copy of the statute ordering that publication in the

first instance should lie with the University Press ; and in
view of the proviso that " the Lecturer is free to publish on
his own behalf in any other form he may like," he had taken
Prof. Romanes' original reference to publication by the Press
to be a subsidiary request to which he gladly assented. How

ever, a satisfactory arrangement was speedily arrived at with

the publishers ; Huxley remarking :--

    If" All I have to say   do not let the University be in any way
                           the V.-C. thinks there any risk of this,
loser by the change.     is,
                                                                          is

                                                                          Ia

will gladly add to what Macmillan pays. That matter can be settled

between us."

      However, he had not forgotten the limitation of his sub

ject in respect of religion and politics, and he repeatedly
refers to his careful avoidance of these topics as an " egg-
dance." And wishing to reassure Mr. Romanes on this head,

he writes on April 22 --
      is
      There      is

                                                     :

                                              I
                                                                         2I
               no allusion to politics in my lecture, nor to any

religion except Buddhism, and only to the speculative and ethical
Ifside of that.
                 people apply anything say about these matters to

modern philosophies, except evolutionary speculation, and religions,

that  not my affair. To be honest, however, unless                           thought

      VOL. II                                                                A

354           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                              CHAP. XXI

they would, I should never have taken all the pains I have bestowed

on these 36 pages.

      But these words conjured up terrible possibilities, and Mr.

Romanes wrote back in great alarm to ask the exact state of

the case.     The  two      following  letters  show that the        alarm was
groundless
              :--

                                                Hodeslea, April 26, 1893.

     My dear Romanes --I fear, or rather hope, that I have given

Iyou a very unnecessary scare.
    You may be quite sure, I think, that, while should have refused

to give the lecture if any pledge of a special character had been pro

posed to me, I have felt very strongly bound to you to take the

utmost care that no shadow of a just cause for offence should be

given, even to the most orthodox of Dons.

    It seems to me that the best thing I can do is to send you the

lecture as it stands, notes and all. But please return it within two

days at furthest, and consider it strictly confidential between us two

(I am not excluding Mrs. Romanes, if she cares to look at the
paper). No consideration would induce me to give any ground for
the notion that I had submitted the lecture to anyone but yourself.

    If there is any phrase in the lecture which you think likely to

get  you into trouble, out  it shall come or be modified in          form.
                            too much for the Dons' nerves
     If the whole thing is                                           -- I am                                                     no
Ijudge of their delicacy-- am quite ready to give up the lecture.
     In fact I do not know whether I shall be able to make myself

heard three weeks hence, as the influenza has left its mark in hoarse

ness and pain in the throat after speaking.
              see if the thing is altogether too
      So you   -- Ever yours very faithfully,     wicked there is an easy
way out of                                              T. H. Huxley.
              it.
                           is                   Hodeslea, April 28, 1893.
                                         a
     My dear Romanes --My mind                               amade easy by such                                                hand

                                                            is

                                                            Ia

                                                          I
                                                                 I

                                                                                                                              !

                                                                                                     a

                                                                                if
some acquittal from you and the Lady Abbess, your coadjutor in the

Holy Office.

     My wife, who       my inquisitor and confessor in ordinary, has

gone    over   the lecture  --twicef,icowiftohrout msecreentminagle    heresy, and                                               she
and   Mrs.    Romanes fail                                           don's nose

     From the point of view of the complete argument, agree with

you about note 19. But the dangers of open collision with ortho
doxy on the one hand and Spencer on the other, increased with the

square of the enlargement of the final pages, and was most anxious

for giving no handle to anyone who might like to say had used the

1893 THE ROMANES LECTURE                                              355

lecture for purposes of attack. Moreover, in spite of all reduction,

the lecture is too long already.

    But I think it not improbable that in spite of my meekness and

peacefulness, neither the one side nor the other will let me alone.

And then you see, I shall have an opportunity of making things

plain, under no restriction. You will not be responsible for any

thing said in the second edition, nor can the Donniest of Dons
grumble. -- Ever yours very faithfully,              T. H. Huxley.

The double negative is Shakspearian.           See Hamlet, act sc. 2.
                                                                   is I ii.
Unfortunately for the entire success of the lecture, he                       it it

was suffering from the results of influenza,         more especially               a
                                         --
loss of voice. He writes (April       I1

                                         8)          have had the ill-

                                               :

                                                 II
After getting through the winter successfully

fortune to be seized with influenza.     believe     must have got

from the microbes haunting some of the three hundred doctors at

the Virchow dinner.1

had next to no symptoms except debility, and though am
II
          II

                  I
much better cannot quite shake that off. As usual with me

affects my voice.     hope this will get right before this day month,

but expect shall have to nurse it.             do not want to interfere
                                   (I
                                        II

                                                      is

                                                     if

                                                      I
with any of your hospitable plans, and think you will ensure me

quiet on the morning of the 18th understand the lecture in the

afternoon)  it  will suffice. After the thing     over am ready for

anything from pitch and toss onwards.

     Two more letters dated before the 8th of May touch on1
the circumstances of the lecture. One to his son-in-law,
                                                 is
John Collier the other to his old friend Tyndall, the last he
ever wrote him, and containing a cheery reference to the;
advance of old age.

                                         Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                     May 9, 1893.

My dear Jack-- . . . M                better, and am getting my voice
a

  I1
                          1I
                                     1I

                                                                     is

                                          I
                                                      I

                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                                         a!
back. But may St. Ernulphus' curse descend on influenza microbes

They tried to work their way out at my nose, and converted me into

disreputable Captain Costigan-looking person ten days ago. Now

they are working at my lips.       hope  shall be more reputable by
     For the credit of the family

the 8th.

          hope you will appreciate my dexterity. The lecture

regular egg-dance. That should discourse on Ethics to the Uni

                      On the 6th March.

356                        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                chap, xxi

versity of Oxford and say all I want to say, without a word any

body can    qu.ar.re.l--wEitvhe, r  is decidedly the most            piquant  occurrence in
my career.                           yours affectionately,
                                                                                   Pater.

P.S. to be read first.                                  Eastbourne, May 15, 1893.

     My dear          Tyndall -- There are not many                  bauptpleI ssen(adndyouthotshee
mostly of the
                      crab sort) left upon the old tree,
Iproduct of the last shaking. Please keep it out of any hands but
dyoeulivr ewr i"fe's  and yours till Thursday, when                  am to "stand and

     I                     have voice enough, which doubtful. The sequelae
                                                        I is
             it,

            iIf

                         is
of influenza in my case have been mostly pimples and procrastina

tion, the former largely on my nose, so that have been spectacle.
Besides these, loss of voice. The pimples are mostly gone and the
                                                                                ;a
procrastination              not much above normal, but what will happen
                                                                                  I
when try to fill the Sheldonian Theatre very doubtful.                                     I
                                                        is
     Who  would            have thought thirty-three                 ago, when     the great
" Sammy   " fight           came off, that the next            I          should   speak at
                                                        years
                                                          time

Oxford would be in succession                         to Gladstone,  on "Evolution and
Ethics " as an invited lecturer
                             is

                                                   ?
     There was something so quaint about the affair that                           really

could not resist, though the wisdom of putting so much strain on

my creaky timbers            very questionable.            Mind you wish me well

through at 2.30 on Thursday.
          wish we could have better news of you.
    I                                                                As to dying by

          is              what we are all doing, my dear old fellow the only

          I it
                      is
inches, that

thing     to establish              proper ratio between inch and time. Eight
                             a
                                                ;

                                                     a
years ago had good reason to say the same thing of myself, but

my inch has lengthened out in most extraordinary way. Still

confess we are getting older and my dear wife has been greatly

shaken by repeated attacks of violent pain which seizes her quite

unexpectedly.             I  am always glad, both on her account and my own,

to get back into the quiet and good air here as fast as possible, and

                                         live so long,
...in another year or two,          iIf                 I  shall clear out of all en

gagements that take me away.                                     T. H. Huxley.

it    Not to be answered, and you had better get Mrs. Tyndall to read
    to you or you will say naughty words about the scrawl.

      Sanguine as he had resolved to be about the recovery of
his voice, his fear lest " 1000 out of the 2000 won't hear"

was very near realisation. The Sheldonian Theatre was

thronged before he appeared on the platform,                                    a  striking

presence in his D.C.L. robes, and looking very leonine with

his long silvery gray hair sweeping back in one long wave

from his forehead, and the rugged squareness of his features

                    THE ROMANES LECTURE                                                              357

tempered by the benignity of an old age which has seen
much and overcome much. He read the lecture from a

printed copy, not venturing, as he would have liked, upon
the severe task of speaking it from memory, considering its
length and the importance of preserving the exact wording.
He began in a somewhat low tone, nursing his voice for the
second half of the discourse. From the more distant parts
of the theatre came several cries of " speak up " ; and after a

time a rather disturbing migration of eager undergraduates
began from the galleries to the body of the hall. The latter

part was indeed more audible than the first ; still a number

of the audience were disappointed in hearing imperfectly.

However, the lecture had a large sale ; the first edition
of 2000 was exhausted by the end of the month ; and

another 700 in the next ten days.
     After leaving Oxford, and paying a pleasant visit to one

of the Fannings (his wife's nephew) at Tew, Huxley intended
to visit another of the family, Mrs. Crowder, in Lincolnshire,

but on reaching London found himself dead beat and had to
retire to Eastbourne, whence he writes to Sir M. Foster and

to Mr. Romanes.

                                                                  Hodeslea, May 26, 1893.

     My dear Foster -- Your letter has been following me about. I

had not got rid of my influenza at Oxford, so the exertion and the
dinner parties together played the deuce with me.

      We had got so far as the Great Northern Hotel on our way to

some connections in Lincolnshire, when I had to give it up and

Iretreat here to begin convalescing again.                                            But

        do not feel sure of coming to the Harvey affair after all.
Iif I do, it will be alone, and                                         think I had better accept the

hospitality of the college ; which will by no means be so jolly as
Shelford, but probably more prudent, considering the necessity of

dining out.

    aI

                       is,

                            I

                                  it, I
      The fact      my dear friend, am getting old.

It's  am very sorry   to hear you      have been doing your influenza also.
      beastly thing,  as have
                                        no symptoms except going flop. --
                                                                                      T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours,

      Nobody sees   that the  lecture                                           very  orthodox production on
                       such   one),                                     Satan the      Prince of this world."
the textI    there                     "

         in (if

                 I is
                                             a
                                                         is
                                                                       a
      think the remnant of influenza microbes must have held                                         a

meeting         my corpus after the lecture, and resolved to reconquer

the territory. But mean to beat the brutes.

358                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       chap. xxi

     "I shall be interested," he writes to Mr. Romanes, "in

the article on the lecture. The papers have been asinine."

This was an article which Mr. Romanes had told him was

about to appear in the          Oxford           Magazine.            And on the 30th

he writes again :--

     Many thanks for the Oxford Magazine. The writer of the
                                critic        I              "wairtthicley,et
article is  about  the   only   it is             have met                      who understands
my drift.          wife   says               a   " sensible                    but her classifica
              My
            svteurpyidsi"mpthleoseonteha--t
Ition isa                                    sensible articles   are  those that   contain
                                             show insensibility   to  my merits !
praise,"

     Really thought it very sensible, without regard to the plums in

the pudding.

     But the criticism, " sensible " not merely in the humor

ous sense, which he most fully appreciated                                      was that of
Professor Seth, in a lecture entitled " Man                                    and Nature."

He wrote to him on October 27 :--

     Dear Professor Seth -- A                    report of   your lecture       on " Man   and
                                                   Accept    my cordial        thanks for   de
Nature " has just reached me.

fending me, and still more for understanding me.

     I really have been unable to understand what my critics have

been dreaming of when they raise the objection that the ethical pro

cess being part of the cosmic process cannot be opposed to it.

     They might as well say that artifice does not oppose nature,

because it is part    of nature in the broadest              tsheens"e.Romanes    Lecture          "
      However, it is  one of the conditions of
that no allusion shall be made to religion or politics. I had to

make my omelette without breaking any of those eggs, and the task

was not easy.

a"HueHdioeTrewnhpceelmi,eudpcbrhieunmtcmepIhaaooytuifcgaashllcptyio,enpnout"tilfaNicrtoolteehhxcianptvuogesr.ei"torforssrMg,uopintptFeoeasnerwaadFhsaaisryna,odatauwyed'axsiseancctrolueynlec.eak--npoaoYwspoksuuel?dras,r"
                                                                      T. H. Huxley.
very faithfully,

     A letter of congratulation to Lord Farrer on his eleva

tion to     the   peerage contains an ironical                         reference   to      the
general     tone  of the criticisms on his lecture
                                                                      :--

                                                                    Hodeslea, June 5, 1893.

     Ci devant Citoyen Petion (autrefois le vertueux) -- You have

lost all chance of leading the forces of the County Council to the

attack of the Horse-Guards.

i893 CRITICISMS ON THE ROMANES LECTURE

       You will become an emigre, and John Burns will have to con
tent himself with the heads of the likes of me. As the Jacobins said
of Lavoisier, the Republic has no need of men of science.

       But this prospect need not interfere with sending our hearty

congratulations to Lady Farrer and yourself.
       IAs for your criticisms, don't you know that
                                                                     am become a

reactionary and secret friend of the clerics ?

       My lecture is really an effort to put the Christian doctrine that

Satan is the Prince of this world upon a scientific foundation.
                                        Otlhxigefhotrg,dr.eaantd(rNoyw.oBu.w--withiTllhSeuanmdoueTner.sllytaHcn.tadimmHeewuhxoIyleffsy!Ip.!ow)--kaes
     Just consider it in this

so warmly welcomed in

before was in 1860, when
Ever yours very faithfully,

                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                          July 15, 1893.

       My dear Skelton -- I fear I must admit that even a Glad-

stonian paper occasionally tells the truth. They never mean to, but
we all have our lapses from the rule of life we have laid down for

ourselves, and must be charitable.

       The fact                       got influenza in the spring, and have never managed
     II I
to shake right again, any tendency that way being well counteracteda I a is,I

by the Romanes lecture and its accompaniments.?

     So we are off to the Maloja to-morrow. It mended up the

shaky old heart-pump five years ago, and hope will again.
                                        I
                                              I

                                                         a

                                                       I

                                                                       it
                                                                                          a

                                                                    I
       have been in Orkney, and believe in the air, but cannot say

quite so much for the scenery.                      thought  just wee little bit,

shall  say, bare                        But then have passion for mountains.

       shall be right glad to know what your H.O.M.* has to say

       about Ethics and Evolution. You must remember that my

lecture was kind of egg-dance. Good manners bound me over to

say nothing offensive to the Christians in the amphitheatre                                  (I  was in

the arena), and truthfulness, on the other hand, bound me to say

nothing that did not fully mean. Under these circumstances one

has to leave great many i's undotted and t's uncrossed.

me --PrYaoyurrsemeevmerb, er            me very kindly to Mrs. Skelton, and believe
                                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

       And again on Oct.                1       --
                                           7
                                               :

     Ask your Old Man of Hoy to be so good as to suspend judg
ment until the Lecture appears again with an appendix in that collec
tion of volumes the bulk of which appals me.

      Didn't see somewhere that you had been made Poor Law pope,

     The " Old Man of Hoy," a pseudonym under which Sir Skelton wrote.
1

         I
                                                                 J.

360         LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                         chap, xxi

or something of the sort ? I congratulate the poor more than I do

you, for it must be a weary business trying to mend the irremediable.

(No, I am not glancing at the whitewashing of Mary.)

      Here may be added two later letters bearing in part

upon the same subject :--

                                                      Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                             March 23, 1894.

    Dear Sir -- I ought to have thanked you before now for your
letter about Nietzsche's works, but I have not much working time, and
II find letter-writing a burden, which I am always trying to shirk.

      will look up Nietzsche's, though I must confess that the profit
I obtain from German authors on speculative questions is not

usually great.              in positive science they are magnificently
      As men of research    But most of them have no notion of style,

laborious and accurate.

and seem to compose their books with a pitchfork.

     There are two very different questions which people fail to

discriminate. One is whether evolution accounts for morality, the
other whether the principle of evolution in general can be adopted

as an ethical principle.
     IThe first, of course,
Iupon.                       advocate, and have constantly insisted

ethics                                                so-called evolutional
       The   second    --I  deny, and reject all
     based  upon it.        am yours faithfully,         T. H. Huxley.

     Thomas Common, Esq.

                                          Hodeslea, August 31, 1894.

    Dear Professor Seth -- I have come to a stop in the issue of
my essays for the present, and I venture to ask your acceptance of
Ithe set which have desired my publishers to send you.

    I hope that at present you are away somewhere, reading novels

or otherwise idling, in whatever may be your pet fashion.

    But some day I want you to read the " Prolegomena " to the

reprinted Romanes Lecture.
     Lately I have been re-reading Spinoza (much read and little
understood in my youth).
                                                      planted no end of
     But that noblest  tohfatJewwhsatmIushtavheavteo   say is in principle    germs  in
     brains, for see                                                          what   he
Imy                                                   yours very faithfully,

had
     to say, in modern language. -- Ever              T. H. Huxley.

      The following letters with reference to the long unfinished
memoir on " Spirula " for the Challenger reports tell their
own story. Huxley was very glad to find some competent

1893 COMPLETION OF THE ' SPIRULA ' MEMOIR                       36i

person to finish the work which his illness had incapacitated

him from completing himself. It had been a burden on his

conscience ; and now he gladly put all his plates and
experience at the disposal of Professor Pelseneer, though he

had nothing written and would not write anything. He had no

wish to claim even joint authorship for the completed paper ;

when the question was first raised, he desired merely that it

should be stated that such and such drawings were made by

him ; but when Professor Pelseneer insisted that both names

should appear as joint authors, he consented to this solution

of the question.

                                                                  Hodeslea, Sept. 17, 1893.

    Dear Mr. Murray *-- If the plates of Spirula could be turned to

account a great burthen would be taken off my mind.
      Professor Pelseneer is every way competent to do justice to the

subject ; and he has just what I needed, namely another specimen
Ito check and complete the work ; and besides that, the physical

capacity for dissection and close observation, of which have had

nothing left since my long illness.

    Will you be so good as to tell Professor Pelseneer that I shall be

glad to place the plates at his disposal and to give him all the explana

tions I can of the drawings, whenever it may suit his convenience

to take up the work ?                remained  Iof the specimen. --
      Nothing beyond mere fragments
                                                T. H. Huxley.
am, yours very faithfully,

I return Pelseneer's letter.         Hodeslea, Sept. 30, 1893.

Dear Professor Pelseneer -- I send herewith (by this post) a

full explanation of the plates of Spirula (including those of which

you have unlettered copies). I trust you will not be too much

embarrassed by my bad handwriting, which is a plague to myself as

well as to other people.

     My hope is that you will be good enough to consider these

figures as materials placed in your hands, to be made useful in the

memoir on Spirula, which I trust you will draw up, supplying the

defects of my work and checking its accuracy.                The
     You will observe that a great deal remains to be done.

muscular system is untouched ; the structure and nature of the

terminal circumvallate papilla have to be made out ; the lingual

teeth must be re-examined ; and the characters of the male deter

mined. If I recollect rightly, Owen published something about the

last point.

1 Now K.C.B. ; Director of the " Reports of the Challenger"

362                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                                    chap, xxi

      If I can be of any service to you in any questions that arise, I
shall be very glad ; but as I am putting the trouble of the work on
Iyour shoulders,
                       wish you to have the credit of
              I

                                                              is
                                                                                is it.
      So far as am concerned,                               all that needful                          to say that such
and such drawings were made                                                                           very faithfully,
                                                            by me. -- Ever yours
                                                                                 T. H. Huxley.

                                                                   Hodeslea, Oct. 12, 1893.

      Dear Professor Pelseneer -- am very glad to hear from you
                   it

                                 ;

                           I
                                                 a
                                       II
that the homology of the cephalopod arms with the gasteropod foot

    now generally      a"dmMiottrepdh.ologWy heonf            advocated that opinion in my
memoir on the                                               the Cephalous Mollusca," some
is
forty years ago, was thought great heresy.
    ifAs to publication
                                                            am quite willing to agree to whatever

arrangement you think desirable,                            so long as     yopuhyasriceiaknin"d                    enough
to take all trouble (but that of                            " consulting                                        )  off my

shoulders. Perhaps putting both names to the memoir,                                                               as you

suggest, will be the best way.                              cannot undertake to write anything,
                   I
                                   I                                                                   or critic,  do   not
but you think          can                            bseervoicfesa.n--y uEsveerasyoaunrsadvveisryer  faithfully,
hesitate to demand     my                                                        T. H. Huxley.

     Although in February he had stayed several days in
town with the Donnellys, who " take as much care of me as

      were piece of old china," and had attended a levee
iIf

                     a
                                                    a
and a meeting of his London University Association, had

listened with interest to lecture of Professor Dewar, who
" made liquid oxygen by the pint," and dined at Marlborough

House, the influenza had prevented him during the spring

from fulfilling several engagements in London but after his
                                                                                                      ;
return from Oxford he began to recruit in the fine weather,
                                                                                                        aa
and found delightful occupation in putting up rockery in

the garden for his pet Alpine plants.

       In  mid June    he       writes                      to his  wife,  then  on                       visit to one

of   her   daughters   --
is
                    a

                           it.

                                            :
                                                    is
-- wWhohaatm   little  goose                          you   --arberotowsgionghainvinidglebacdomdforerat m--sin  about    me
              like a   stalled                          ox                                                       fact,  idle

    no word for        Sloth the right epithet.                            is I  can't get myself to

do anything but potter in the garden, which looking lovely.

     On June 21 he went to Cambridge for the Harvey
Celebration at Gonville and Caius College, and made a short

speech.

                   INFLUENZA                                             363

    IThedinner  l;asbtutniIghgtot(  he writes) was a long affair, and I  was
       speaker                                                           was
the last                            through my speech very well, and

heard by everybody, am told.

      But as is the way with influenza, it was thrown off in
the summer only to return the next winter, and on the eve
of the Royal Society Anniversary Dinner he writes to Sir M.

Foster :--

    I am in rather a shaky and voiceless condition, and unless I am
more up to the mark to-morrow morning I shall have to forego the

dinner, and, what is worse, the chat with you afterwards.

      One consequence of the spring attack of influenza was

that this year he went once more to the Maloja, staying there

from July 21 to August 25.

                                         Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                July 9, 1893.

     My dear Hooker -- What has happened to the x meeting you

proposed ? However, it does not matter much to me now, as Hames,
who gave me a thorough overhauling in London, has packed me off
to the Maloja again, and we start, if we can, on the 17th.

     It is a great nuisance, but the dregs of influenza and the hot

weather between them have brought the weakness of my heart to the

front, and I am gravitating to the condition in which I was five or
six years ago. So I must try the remedy which was so effectual last

time.

We are neither of us very fit, and shall have to be taken charge

of by a courier. Fancy coming to that !

Let me be a warning to you, my dear old man. Don't go giving

lectures at Oxford and making speeches at Cambridge, and above all

things don't, oh don't go getting influenza, the microbes of which

would be seen under a strong enough microscope to have this form.

[Sketch of an active little black demon.]  T. H. Huxley.

       Though not so strikingly as before, the high Alpine air

was again a wonderful tonic to him. His diary still contains

a note of occasional long walks ; and once more he was the
centre of a circle of friends, whose cordial recollections of

their pleasant intercourse afterwards found expression in a

lasting memorial.  Beside one of his favourite walks, a

narrow pathway skirting the blue lakelet of Sils, was placed

3&4

a gray block    of granite.           The face of this was roughly
smoothed, and   upon it was
                                     cut the following inscription :--

     In memory of the illustrious English Writer and Naturalist,

Thomas Henry Huxley, who spent many summers at the Kursaal,

Maloja.

     In a letter to Sir J. Hooker, of October I, he describes
the effects of his trip, and his own
write a critical account of Owen's            wsuorrpkris:--e at  being  asked  to

                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                              Oct. i, 1893.

     My dear Hooker-- I am no better than a Gadarene swine for
not writing to you from the Maloja, but I was too procrastinatingly
Ilazy to expend even that amount of energy.   found I could walk
Ias well as ever, but unless I was walking was everlastingly seedy,
and the wife was unwell almost all the time. I am inclined to think

that it is coming home which is the most beneficial part of going

Iabroad, for am remarkably well now, and my wife is very much

better.
     I trust the impaled and injudicious Richard * is none the worse.
...IftindisYwwohouantdweairlflluoltgeowtfhasaltltuftbfhoetyhsevroegluowmtaehssr--ouogbfhutm(dyaolsnsoc'trewaehcdakstn. ogwoleeI sdwgteahsrotuhhgoehmrriftiuhenedlmest)so.
the spirit moves you.                I think that on Natural Inequality of

Man will be to your taste.

    Three, or thirty, guesses and you shall not guess what I am about

to tell you.

     Rev. Richard Owen has written to me to ask me to write a con
                                     the biography of his grandfather -- containing a
c"lucdriitnicgalc"haepstetirmaftoer
                                     of him and his work ! ! ! Says he is moved

thereto by my speech at the meeting for a memorial.

      There seemed nothing for me to do but to accept as far as the

scientific work goes. I declined any personal estimate on the ground

that we had met in private society half a dozen times.
     If you don't mind being bothered I should like to send you what
I write and have your opinion about it.
                                     gone. I
to    You  see  Jowett is going or            am very sorry we    were obliged
     give  up   our annual visit     to him   this year. But
                                                                  I was quite

unable to stand the exertion, even if Hames had not packed me off.

How one's old friends are dropping !

     Romanes gave me a pitiable account of himself in a letter the

    1 Sir J. Hooker's youngest son, who had managed to spike himself on a

fence.

                                                                                          365

other day. He has had an attack of hemiplegic paralysis, and tells

me he is a mere wreck. That means that the worst anticipations of

his case are being verified. It is lamentable.

Take care of yourself, my dear old friend, and with our love to
                                                                T. H. Huxley.
you both, believe me, ever yours,

Not long after his return he received a letter from a

certain G       S , who wrote from Southampton detail

ing a number of observations he had made upon the organ

isms to be seen with a magnifying glass in an infusion of
vegetable matter, and as " an ignoramus," apologised for any

appearance of conceit in so doing, while asking his advice as

to the best means of improving his scientific knowledge.

Huxley was much struck by the tone of the letter and the

description of the experiments, and he wrote back :--

                                                              HOdeslea, NffV. 9, 1893.

Sir -- We are all "ignoramuses" more or less--and cannot re
Ifproach one another.
                        there were any sign of conceit in your letter,

you would not get this reply.                                 Your observations are
                                                              be accurate in observation
      On  the   ccolnetarralyry,desitcripbleedas--es    me.                               quite
accurate   and                                        and to                                and

clear in description is the first step towards good scientific work.

You are seeing just what the first workers with the microscope

saw a couple of centuries ago.
      Get some such book as Carpenter's " On the Microscope " and

you will see what it all means.

Are there no science classes in Southampton ? There used to
Ibe, and suppose
                        Hartley Institute.
                      if is,
                            a

                                                I
                                                              I
If you want to consult books you cannot otherwise obtain, take

this to the librarian,  give him  hmeylpcoymoup. l--imenatms,,  and say should be
very much obliged       he would                                yours very faithfully,
                                                                T. H. Huxley.

Great was Huxley's astonishment when he learned in

reply that his correspondent was a casual dock labourer, and

had but scanty hours of leisure in which to read and think

and seek into the recesses of nature, while his means of

observation consisted of                              toy microscope bought for
           :

             a
                                             a

                                                                             J. a
shilling at fair. Casting about for some means of lending

the man a helping hand, he bethought him of the Science

and Art Department, and wrote on December                       30 to Sir
Donnelly --

366              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                          chap, xxi

     The Department has feelers all over England -- has it any at
                           if
Southampton?        And        it has, could it  find out something            about   the
writer of the              I   enclose? For      a "casual docker"               they  are
                 letters
Iremarkable ; and think when you have read them you will not

mind my bothering you with them. (I really have had the grace to

hesitate.)                                                               It is so much
    II
                                                                           don't like to
easier
       have been   ptuhzaznledgowodhatbytomdedodfloinrgt--he anmdany.et
       to do harm

leave him to "casual       docking."   --on  his own         hook --about          as  far as
     In that first letter  he has got

Buffon and Needham 150 years ago.

     And later to Professor Howes :--

                                                             Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                             Feb. 12, 1894.

     My dear Howes -- Best thanks for unearthing the volumes of
Milne-Edwards. I was afraid my set was spoiled.

    I shall be still more obliged to you if you can hear of something

for S       . There is a right good parson in his neighbourhood, and
                                             I am confirmed in my opinion
from what he tells me about S

that he is a very exceptional man, who ought to be at something

better than porter's work for twelve hours a day.
     The mischief is that one never knows how transplanting a tree,

much less a man, will answer. Playing Providence is a game at

which one is very apt to burn one's fingers.
                 I am
       However,        tgooihneglpt.o--tryE,vearndyohuorpse   at any rate to   do  no  harm
     the man     want                                        very faithfully,
Ito

                                                             T. H. Huxley.

      He was eventually offered more congenial occupation at
the Natural History Museum in South Kensington, but pre
ferred not to enter into the bonds of an unaccustomed office.

      Meanwhile, through Sir John Donnelly, Huxley was
placed in communication with the Rev. Montague Powell,

who, at his request, called upon the docker ; and finding him

a man who had read and thought to an astonishing extent

upon scientific problems, and had a considerable acquaint

ance with English literature, soon took more than a vicarious
interest in him. Mr. Powell, who kept Huxley informed of
his talks and correspondence with G. S., gives a full account

of the circumstances in a letter to the Spectator of July 13,
1895, from which I quote the following words :--

1893 THE 'NINETEENTH CENTURY' AS PAYMASTER 367

The Professor's object in writing was to ask me how best such a
Iman could be helped,
                             being at his special request the inter
Imediary. So suggested in the meanwhile a microscope and a few
Iscientific books. In the course of a few days received a splendid
achromatic compound microscope and some books, which I duly

handed    "ovAehr ,"tohe  msyaid,frie"nId,kntoewllinwghohimthatit   was  from an unknown
hand.                                                              must  be ; it can be no

other than the greatest of living scientists ; it is just like him to help

a tyro."

      One small incident of this affair is perhaps worth pre
serving as an example of Huxley's love of a bantering
repartee. In the midst of the correspondence Mr. Powell

seems suddenly to have been seized by an uneasy recollec

tion that Huxley had lately received some honour or title,
so he next addressed him as " My dear Sir Thomas."
The latter, not to be outdone, promptly replied with " My
dear Lord Bishop of the Solent."

About the same time comes a letter to Mr. Knowles,

based upon  wahipcahrahgardapchomfreominttoheHguoxslesyip'singhancdoslum:--n  of  some
newspaper

                                                       Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                          Nov. 9, 1893.

                          Gossip of the Town.

     "Professor Huxley receives 200 guineas for each of his articles
for the Nineteenth Century."

    My dear Knowles -- I have always been satisfied with the Nine
teenth Century in the capacity of paymaster, but I did not know
Ihow much reason I had for my satisfaction till read the above !

    ITotting up the number of articles and multiplying by 200 it
strikes me shall be behaving very handsomely if I take £2000 for

the balance due.

So sit down quickly, take thy cheque-book, and write five score,
                                                                         I once got a
and let me have it at breakfast time to-morrow.

cheque for £1000 at breakfast, and it ruined me morally. 1 have

always been looking out for another.

    I hope you are all flourishing. We are the better for Maloja,

Ibut more dependent on change of weather and other trifles than

could be wished. Yet find myself outlasting those who started in
life along with me. Poor Andrew Clark and I were at Haslar
together in 1846, and he was the younger by a year and a half. --
                                                                         T. H. Huxley.
Ever yours very faithfully,

368                        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         CHAP. XXI

     All my time is spent in the co-ordination of my eruptions when

I am an active volcano.
    I Ihope you got the volumes which told Macmillan to send you.

      The following letter to Professor Romanes, whose failing
eyesight was a premonitory symptom of the disease which
proved fatal the next year, reads, so to say, as a solemn pre

lude to the death of three old friends this autumn -- of

Andrew Clark, his old comrade at Haslar, and cheery
physician for many years ; of Benjamin Jowett, Master of
Balliol, whose acquaintance he had first made in 1 8 5 1 at
the Stanleys' at Harrow, and with whom he kept up an inti
macy to the end of his life, visiting Balliol once or twice
every year ; and, heaviest blow, of John Tyndall, the friend
and comrade whose genial warmth of spirit made him almost

claim a brother's place in early struggles and later success,
and whose sudden death was all the more poignant for the

cruel touch of tragedy in the manner of it :--

                                                        Hodeslea, Sept. 28, 1893.

     My dear Romanes -- We are very much grieved to hear such

a bad account of your health. Would that we could achieve some
thing more to the purpose than assuring you and Mrs. Romanes

of our hearty sympathy with you both in your troubles. I assure

you, you are much in our thoughts, which are sad enough with

the news of Jowett's, I fear, fatal attack.
    I am almost ashamed to be well and tolerably active when

young and old friends are being thus prostrated.

      However, you have youth on your side, so do not give up, and
wearisome as doing nothing may be, persist in it as the best of

medicines.

     At my time of life one should be always ready to stand at atten

tion when the order to march comes ; but for the rest I think it
well to go on doing what I can, as if F. M. General Death had for

gotten me. That must                  account    for   mthyreasdesem"inogf   presumption in
thinking I                            " take up   the                       late evolutionary
              m--ayEvsoemr eyoduarys                                        H. Huxley.
speculation.                          very faithfully,  T.

     My wife joins with me in love and kind wishes to you both.

     At the request of his friends, Huxley wrote for the Nine

TteyenntdhallC--entthuery    a brief   appreciation     of his old comrade
                           tribute of  a friend to a
                                                        friend -- and, difficult

i893 DEATH OF TYNDALL                                                                   369

task though it was, touched on the closing scene, if only

from a chivalrous desire to do justice                             to the  long  devotion
which accident had so cruelly wronged
                                                                   :--

I am comforted (he writes to Sir J. Hooker on January 3) by
Iyour liking

the episode
   the  tTheynd" alallst            article.  You are quite right,            shivered over
   of                                words,"  but it struck me as          the best way of
Igetting justice done to her, so I took a header.
                                                                           am glad to see

by the newspaper comments that it does not seem to have shocked

other people's sense of decency.

     The funeral took place on Saturday, December 9. There
was no storm nor fog to make the graveside perilous for the

survivors. In the Haslemere churchyard the winter sun

shone its brightest, and the moorland air was crisp with an

almost Alpine freshness as this lover of the mountains was

carried to his last resting-place. But though he took no

outward harm from that bright still morning, Huxley was

greatly shaken by the event : " I was very much used up,"

he writes to Sir M. Foster on his return home two days later,
" to my shame be it said, far more                                 my wife " ; and on
December 30 to Sir John Donnelly              than

                                              :--

Your kind letter deserved better than to have been left all this

time without response, but the fact           came to grief the day after
                                              iIs,
                                                          iIs,

                                                                I
                                                                          I
Christmas Day (no, we did not indulge in too much champagne).

Lost my voice, and collapsed generally, without any particular

reason, so went to bed and stayed there as long as could stand
it,

         II

                             a
and now am picking up again. The fact                                      suppose      had

been running up little account over poor old Tyndall. One does

not stand that sort of wear and tear so well as one gets ancient.

On the same day he writes to Sir D. Hooker --
                                              J.

                                                                                   :

                                              Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                   Dec. 30, 1893.
My dear Hooker --You gave the geographers some uncom
                                    observe that the words about the " stupendous
monly sane advice.              aI
ice-clad mountains " you saw were hardly out of your mouth when

   coolly asserts that the Antarctic continent                             table-land
" comparatively level country."                                            is
                                                                              aa

                                                                                                               !
                                              really wrong that men should
                                              It

                                                               is

be allowed to go about loose who fill you with such strong desire

to kick them as that little man does.

I send herewith                     spare copy of Nineteenth with my paper about

VOL. II                                                                          2
                                                                                     B

370  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y                                                                  chap, xxi

Tyndall. IIt is not exactly what could wish, as I was hurried over

    and knocked up into the bargain, but                                        have tried to give                    fair
view of him. Tell me what you think of
I it,
    I

               I

                                  ;
                                             a

                                     is,I I
                                               it. I

                                                                                                                   a
     have been having day or two on the sick list. Nothing dis

cernible the matter, only flopped, as did in the spring. However,

am picking up again. The fact                                                   have never any blood pres

sure to spare, and a small thing humbugs the pump.

     However, have some kicks left in me, vide the preface to the

fourth vol. of Essays do. No. V. when that appears in February.

     Now, my dear old friend, take care of yourself in the coming year
'b--9e4.EevqeuIra'lllylyosut"arsnJodhafnfbenycietiy.o"onuatealsWy,liothngouasr
                                                                                the fates will  let me, and you must
                                                                                love to Lady     Hooker and yourself
                                                                                                  T. H. Huxley.

           CHAPTER XXII

                        1894

The completion early in 1894 of the ninth volume of Col
lected Essays was followed by a review of them in Nature

(February 1), from the pen of Professor Ray Lankester,

emphasising the way      in which                         the  writer's  personality
appears throughout the
                        writing :--

     There is probably no lover of apt discourse, of keen criticism, or
of scientific doctrine who will not welcome the issue of Professor

Huxley's Essays in the present convenient shape. For my own

part, I know of no writing which by its mere form, even apart from

the supreme interest of the matters with which it mostly deals, gives me
so much pleasure as that of the author of these essays. In his case,
more than that of his contemporaries, it is strictly true that the style
is the man. Some authors we may admire for the consummate skill

with which they transfer to the reader their thought without allowing
him, even for a moment, to be conscious of their personality. In
Professor Huxley's work, on the other hand, we never miss his

fascinating presence ; now he is gravely shaking his head, now com
pressing the lips with emphasis, and from time to time, with a quiet
twinkle of the eye, making unexpected apologies or protesting that
he is of a modest and peace-loving nature. At the same time, one

becomes accustomed to a rare and delightful phenomenon.                                   Every

thing which has entered the author's brain by eye or ear, whether of

recondite  ptohiuloss--opchlay,rifbieiodl,ogsiifcteadl ,  fact, or political programme,     comes
out again                                                  arranged, and vivified by its  passage

through the logical machine of his strong individuality.

Of the artist in him it continues :--

     He deals with form not only as a mechanical engineer in partibus
(Huxley's own description of himself), but also as an artist, a born
lover of form, a character which others recognise in him though he
does not himself set it down in his analysis.

372                   LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y      chap, xxii

     The essay on " Animal Automatism " suggested a
reminiscence of Professor Lankester's as to the way in which

it was delivered, and this in turn led to Huxley's own
account of the incident in the letter given in Vol. I. p. 444.

      About the same time there is a letter acknowledging Mr.

Bateson's book On Variation, which is interesting as touch

ing on the latter-day habit of speculation apart from fact

which had begun to prevail in biology :--

                                                                  Hodeslea, Feb. 20, 1894.

     My dear Mr. Bateson -- I have put off thanking you for the

volume On Variation which you have been so good as to send me

Iin the hope that should be able to look into it before doing so.
    IBut as find that impossible, beyond a hasty glance, at present,

II must content myself with saying how glad am to see from that

glance that we are getting back from the region of speculation into

that of fact again.

     There have been threatenings of late that the field of battle of

Evolution was being transferred to Nephelococcygia.
I Iable
     "sesealtyuos u"  are  inclined  to advocate the possibility of consider
                      on   the part  of Dame Nature in her variations.

always took the same view, much to Mr. Darwin's disgust, and we

used often to debate it.
     If you should come across my article in the Westminster (1860)
Iyou will find a paragraph on
                                     that
writing to Macmillan to send         you

fully,
                                           tqhueestvioolnumen.ea--Tr. YtHohue. rsHenudvxe. lreyyf.aiathm

      By the way, have you ever considered this point, that the varia
tions of which breeders avail themselves are exactly those which
occur when the previously wild stocks are subjected to exactly the
same conditions ?

     The rest of the first half of the year is not eventful. As

illustrating the sort of communications which constantly

came to  --him, I          quote  from a letter to Sir J. Donnelly, of

January  11 :

    I had a letter from a fellow yesterday morning who must be a
I lunatic, to the effect that he had been reading my essays, thought

   was just the man to spend a month with, and was coming down
by the five o'clock train, attended by his seven children and his
mother-in-law !

     Frost being over, there was lots of boiling water ready for him,

but he did not turn up !

      Wife and servants expected nothing less than assassination.

1894 HIS CHAPTER IN OWEN'S 'LIFE'                                                     373

      Later                he   notes   weivthenidnigsmpaayrtyan:--invitation  as  a  Privy
Councillor                 to  a State

     It is at 10.30 p.m., just the time this poor old septuagenarian

Igoes to bed .

     My swellness is an awful burden, for as it is am going to dine
with the Prime Minister on Saturday.

The banquet with the Prime Minister here alluded to

was the occasion of a brief note of                 apology to                 Lord   Rose-
bery for having unintentionally kept                him waiting
                                                                               :--

                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                           May 28, 1894.

Dear Lord Rosebery --I had hoped that my difficulties in

dealing with an overtight scabbard stud, as we sat down to dinner

on Saturday, had inconvenienced no one but myself, until it flashed
Iacross my mind after
                                        had parted from you that, as you had
Iobserved them, it was only too probable that had the misfortune

to keep you waiting.                                                                  feel

    II have been in a state of permanent blush ever since, and

sure you will forgive me for troubling you with this apology as the
                                which I can look for relief from that unwonted
aofnfllyictiroenm. e--dyI   to
                           am,  dear Lord Rosebery, yours very faithfully,

                                                                T. H. Huxley.

All through the spring he had been busy completing the

chapter on Sir Richard Owen's work, which he had been

asked to  w4ritteellsbyStihreJ.biDo.grHapohoekrerof:--his  old  opponent, and         on
February

I Iam toiling over my chapter about Owen, and believe his

ghost in Hades is grinning over my difficulties.
The thing that strikes me most
is                                                  how he and                 and all the

           it
                                                                       ;
                                                         is,

                                                        is

                                                   I
things we fought about belong to antiquity.

     It almost impertinent to trouble the modern world with such

antiquarian business.

He sent the MS. to Sir M. Foster on June 16; the
book itself appeared in December. The chapter in question
was restricted to a review of the immense amount of work,

most valuable on its positive side, done by Owen (compare

the letter of January 16, 1893) and the review in Nature
remarks of                                                 "so straightforward,
                                that the criticism

374

searching, and honest as to leave nothing further to be

desired."

     Besides this piece of work, he had written early in

the year a few lines on the general character of the nine
teenth century, in reply to a request, addressed to " the most

illustrious children  of the   century," for their opinion as   --to
what name will be             to it by an impartial posterity
                      given

the century of Comte,    of Darwin or           Renan,  of Edison,
Pasteur, or Gladstone.
                        He replied :--

     I conceive that the leading characteristic of the nineteenth

century has been the rapid growth of the scientific spirit, the conse

quent application of scientific methods of investigation to all the

problems with which the human mind is occupied, and the correla
tive rejection of traditional beliefs which have proved their incom

petence to bear such investigation.                             in every
                                                                effective
     The activity of the scientific spirit has been manifested
region of speculation and of practice.

     Many of the eminent men you mention have been its

organs in their several departments.

     But the selection of any one of these, whatever his merits, as an

adequate representative of the power and majesty of the scientific

spirit of the age would be a grievous mistake.

     Science reckons many prophets, but there is not even a promise

of a Messiah.

     The unexampled increase in the expenditure of the

European states upon their armaments led the Arbitration

Alliance this year to issue a memorial urging the Govern

ment to co-operate with other Governments in reducing

naval and military burdens.       Huxley was     asked          to:--sign
this memorial, and replied to                    follows
                               the secretary as

                                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                           June 21, 1894.

    Dear Sir -- I have taken some time to consider the memorial
Ito which you have called my attention, and regret that I do not

find myself able to sign it.

    Not that I have the slightest doubt about the magnitude of the

evils which accrue from the steady increase of European armaments ;

but because I think that this regrettable fact is merely the superficial

expression of social forces, the operation of which cannot be sensibly

affected by agreements between Governments.

     In my opinion it is a delusion to attribute the growth of arma

1894 BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD                                                  375

ments to the "exactions of militarism." The "exactions of in

Idustrialism," generated by international commercial competition,

may, believe, claim a much larger share in prompting that growth.

Add to this the French thirst for revenge, the most just determina

tion of the German and Italian peoples to assert their national

unity ; the Russian Panslavonic fanaticism and desire for free access

to the western seas ; the Papacy steadily fishing in the troubled

waters for the means of     recovering its lost         (tIheho"pseickformeavne,"r  lost)
temporal possessions and    spiritual supremacy ;                                   kept

alive only because each of his doctors is afraid of the other becoming

his heir.

    When I think of the intensity of the perturbing agencies which

arise out of these and other conditions of modern European society,

I confess that the attempt to counteract them by asking Govern

ments to agree to a maximum military expenditure, does not appear

to me to be worth making ; indeed I think it might do harm by
leading people to suppose that the desires of Governments are the

cEhuireofpea.g--entIs   in  determining whether  peace  or war shall obtain         in
                       am,  yours faithfully,
                                                           T. H. Huxley.

Later in the year, on August 8, took place the meeting

of the British Association at Oxford, noteworthy for the

presidential address delivered by Lord Salisbury, Chancellor

of the University, in which the doctrine of evolution was

" enunciated as a matter of course -- disputed by no reason

able man," although accompanied by a description of the

working of the natural selection and variation which appeared

to the man of science a mere travesty of these doctrines.

Huxley had been persuaded to attend this meeting, the

more willingly, perhaps, since his reception at Oxford the

year before suggested that there would be a special piquancy

in the contrast between this and the last meeting of the

Association at Oxford in 1 860. He was not disappointed.

Details apart, the cardinal situation was reversed. The

genius of the place had indeed altered. The representatives

of the party, whose prophet had once contemptuously come
                            " Origin," returned at length
here  to anathematise the   not altogether ungrudgingly    t--o tthhee
same
       spot to admit -- if

greatness of the work accomplished by Darwin.

      Once under promise to go, he could not escape without
the " few words " which he now found so tiring ; but he took

the part which assured him greatest freedom, as seconder of

the vote of thanks to the president for his address. The

376             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                         chap, xxn

study of an advance copy of the address raised an " almost
overwhelming temptation " to criticise certain statements

contained in it ; but this would have been out of place in

seconding a vote of thanks ; and resisting the temptation,
he only " conveyed criticism," as he writes to Professor
Lewis Campbell, " in the form                              "
                                               of  praise        going           so far as
                                                              :
to suggest " it might be that, in listening to the deeply

interesting address of the President, a thought had occasion

ally entered his mind how rich and profitable might be the

discussion of that paper in Section D" (Biology). It was

not exactly an off-hand speech. Writing to Sir M. Foster

--for any good  report  which might appear                 in an Oxford          paper,

he says :

    I have no notes of               wrote something on Tuesday night, but
                                  was metamorphosed two or three times
this draft no good, as

over on Wednesday.
     is
                            it it.

                        I

     One who was present and aware of the whole situation

once described how he marked the eyes of another interested

member of the audience, who knew that Huxley was to speak,

but not what he meant to say, turning anxiously whenever

the president reached critical phrase in the address, to see
     ;

                                a
                                        a
how he would take it. But the expression of his face told

nothing only those who knew him well could infer
                                                                                 it
suppressed impatience from little twitching of his foot.                             it :
     Of this occasion Professor Henry F. Osborn, one of his
old pupils, writes in his " Memorial                                                         a
                                                   Tribute to Thomas H.
Huxley" (Transactions of the N.Y.
                                                   --Acad. Soc. vol. xv.)

     Huxley's last public appearance was at the meeting of the British

Association at Oxford. He had been very urgently invited to

attend, for, exactly quarter of century before, the Association
                a
                                            a

had met at Oxford, and Huxley had had his famous encounter with

Bishop Wilberforce. It was felt that the anniversary would be an

historic one, and incomplete without his presence, and so proved

to be. Huxley's especial    daudtdyrewssas--toonseecoofndthethienvvaortieabloef  thanks for
the Marquis of Salisbury's                                                       formalities

of the opening meetings of the Association.                The meeting proved

to be the greatest one in the history of the Association. The
Sheldonian Theatre was packed with one of the most distinguished

scientific audiences ever brought together, and the address of the

Marquis was worthy of the occasion. The whole tenor of was

BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT OXFORD                           377

unknown in science.  Passing from the unsolved problems of

astronomy, chemistry, and physics, he came to biology.  With

delicate irony he spoke of the "comforting word, evolution," and

passing to the Weismannian controversy, implied that the diametric

ally opposed views so frequently expressed nowadays threw the whole

process of evolution into doubt. It was only too evident that the

Marquis himself found no comfort in evolution, and even entertained

a suspicion as to its probability. It was well worth the whole journey
to Oxford to watch Huxley during this portion of the address. In

his red doctor-of-laws gown, placed upon his shoulders by the very

body of men who had once referred to him as "a Mr. Huxley," he

sank deeper into his chair upon the very front of the platform and

restlessly tapped his foot. His situation was an unenviable one.
He had to thank an ex-Prime Minister of England and present

Chancellor of Oxford University for an address, the sentiments

of which were directly against those he himself had been maintaining
for twenty-five years. He said afterwards that when the proofs of

the Marquis's address were put into his hands the day before, he

realised that he had before him a most delicate and difficult task.

Lord Kelvin (Sir William Thomson) one of the most distinguished
living physicists, first moved the vote of thanks, but his reception

was nothing to the tremendous applause which greeted Huxley in

the heart of that University whose cardinal principles he had so

long been opposing. Considerable anxiety had been felt by his

friends lest his voice should fail to fill the theatre, for it had signally

failed during his Romanes Lecture delivered in Oxford the year

before, but when Huxley arose he reminded you of a venerable
gladiator returning to the arena after years of absence. He raised

his figure and his voice to its full height, and, with one foot turned

over the edge of the step, veiled an unmistakable and vigorous pro
test in the most gracious and dignified speech of thanks.

     Throughout the subsequent special sessions of this meeting
Huxley could not appear. He gave the impression of being aged

but not infirm, and no one realised that he had spoken his last word

as champion of the law of evolution.

      Such criticism of the address as he actually expressed
reappears in the leading article, " Past and Present," which

he wrote for Nature to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary
of its foundation (Nov. I, 1894).

      The essence of the criticism is that with whatever
demonstrations of hostility to parts of the Darwinian theory
Lord Salisbury covered the retreat of his party from their
ancient positions, he admitted the validity of the main points

for which Darwin contended.

378      LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                       CHAP. XXII

     The essence of this great work (the Origin of Species) may be
stated summarily this : it affirms the mutability of species and the
descent of living forms, separated by differences of more than varietal

value, from one stock. That is to say, it propounds the doctrine

of evolution as far as biology is concerned. So far, we have merely

a re-statement of a doctrine which, in its most general form, is as

old as scientific speculation. So far, we have the two theses which

were declared to be scientifically absurd and theologically damnable

by the Bishop of Oxford in 1860.
     It is also of these two fundamental doctrines that, at the meet

ing of   the British  Association in    18:--94,  the       Chancellor  of the  Uni
          of Oxford   spoke as follows
versity

     "Another lasting and unquestioned effect has resulted from
Darwin's work. He has, as a matter of fact, disposed of the doctrine

of the immutability of species. . . ."
      " Few now are found to doubt that animals separated by differ

ences far exceeding those that distinguished what we know as species

have yet descended from common ancestors."

     Undoubtedly, every one conversant with the state of biological

science is aware that general opinion has long had good reason for

making   the volte face    thus indicated.       It is also  mere justice              to
Darwin   to say that this   " lasting and   unquestioned "   revolution                in
                                                                        if
   very real sense, his work. And yet                                             is,
a                                                 of it     also true that, all the

                                                        is
conceptions promulgated in the Origin Species which are peculiarly
Darwinian were swept away, the theory of the evolution of animals

and plants would not be in the slightest degree shaken.

     The strain of this single effort was considerable " am
                                                                        ;

                                                                            I

frightfully tired," he wrote on August 11, "but the game

was worth the candle."

     Letters to Sir        D. Hooker and to Professor Lewis
                      J.

                                                      ; is
Campbell contain his own account of the affair. The refer

ence in the latter to the priests                           in reply to Professor

Campbell's story of one of Jowett's last sayings. They had
been talking of the collective power of the priesthood to

resist the introduction of new ideas a long pause ensued,

and the old man seemed to have slipped off into doze,                   a
when he suddenly broke the silence by saying, " The priests

will always be too many for you."

                                                      The Spa, Tunbridge Wells,I

                                                                               Aug. 12, 1894.

     My dear Hooker-- wish, as everybody wished, you had been

with us on Wednesday evening at Oxford when we settled accounts

                         EVOLUTION AND STUDIES                                                    379

for 1860, and got a receipt in full from the Chancellor of the Uni
versity, President of the Association, and representative of ecclesias

tical conservatism and orthodoxy.
Iand
       was    officially  asked to    nsiegchotndbetfhoerev--oteluocfkitlhya--nksforfoirt  the address,
     got a     copy of     it the                                                          was a kittle

business. . . .

    IIt was very queer to sit there and hear the doctrines you and

were damned           offorcoaudrvsoec--atindgisptuhtiertdy-fboyur  nyeoarsreaagsoonaatblOexfomrda,nen!--unicniatethde
as matters

Sheldonian Theatre by the Chancellor. . . .
     Of course there is not much left of me, and it will take a fort

night's quiet at Eastbourne (whither we return on Tuesday next) to
                 But it  wtoasyoauplbeoatshan--t  last                          in the socket
get right.    our love                            Ever              flare-up  affectionately,  !
      With                                                           yours

                                                                              T. H. Huxley.

                                                                    Hodeslea, Aug. 18, 1894.

and  My dear Campbell -- I am                     setting           you a good example. You
     I are really too old friends                 to go             on wasting ink in honorary

prefixes.

    I had a very difficult task at Oxford. The old Adam, of course,

prompted the tearing of the address to pieces, which would have
been a very easy job, especially the latter half of it. But as that
procedure would not have harmonised well with the function of a
seconder of a vote of thanks, and as, moreover, Lord S. was very just

and good in his expressions about Darwin, I had to convey criticism

in the shape of praise.

     It was very curious to me to sit there and hear the Chancellor
of the University accept, as a matter of course, the doctrines for

Ewhich the Bishop of Oxford coarsely anathematised us thirty-four
years earlier.           pur si muove !
     I am not afraid of the priests in the long-run. Scientific method

is the white ant which will slowly but surely destroy their fortifica
                And
tliifoens--.          the importance  ionfcrsecaiseinngtifi--c miseththoed    in modern           practical
              always   growing and                                             guarantee           for the

gradual emancipation of the ignorant upper and lower classes, the
former of whom especially are the strength of the priests.

     My wife had a very bad attack of her old enemy some weeks

ago, and she thought she would not be able to go to Oxford. How

ever, she picked up in the wonderful elastic way she has, and I
believe was less done-up than I when we left on the Friday morning.
I was glad the wife was there, as the meeting gave me a very kind

reception, and it was probably the last flare-up in the socket.
     The Warden of Merton took great care of us, but it was sad to

think of the vacuity of Balliol.

3So              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   CHAP. XXII

     Please remember me very kindly to Father Steffens and the

Steeles, and will you tell Herr Walther we are only waiting for a

balloon to visit the hotel again ?   to   Mrs.         Campbell and yourself --
      With our affectionate regards                           T. H. Huxley.

Ever yours very faithfully,

      Here also belong several letters of miscellaneous interest.

One is to Mrs. Lewis Campbell at the Maloja :--

                                                                  Hodeslea, Aug. 20, 1894.

    My dear Mrs. Campbell --What a pity I am not a telepath !
II might have answered your inquiry in the letter was writing to

Iyour husband yesterday.
     The flower  found on the island in Sils Lake was a cross be
tween Gentiana lutea and Gentiana punctata -- nothing new, but inter

esting in many ways as a natural hybrid.

    As to baptising the island, I am not guilty of usurping ecclesi
astical functions to that extent. I have a notion that the island has
a name already, but I cannot recollect it. Walther would know.

     My wife had a bad attack, and we were obliged to give up some

visits we had projected. But she got well enough to go to Oxford

with me for a couple of days, and really stood the racket better than

I did.
    IAt present she is fairly well, and hope the enemy may give her

a long respite. The Colliers come to us at the end of this month,

and that will do her good.

     With our affectionate    regards to  you both and remembrances               to
                             very truly,                            T. H. H.
our  friends-- Ever yours

     The first of the following set refers to a lively piece of
nonsense which Huxley wrote just before going to stay with
the Romanes' at Oxford on the occasion of the Romanes

Lecture.* After Professor Romanes' death, Mrs. Romanes
asked leave to print it in the biography of her husband. In

the other letters, Huxley gives his consent, but, with his usual

care for the less experienced, tried to prevent any malicious
perversion of the fun which might put her in a false position.

                 To Mrs. Romanes

                                                       Hodeslea, Sept. 20, 1894.

my   I do not think I can    wpoorsthsibwlyhihleav--e   any   objection to  your using
                                                       but   perhaps you    had better
     letter if you think it

                             1 See p. 351.

                                LETTERS

let me look at      for remember nothing about -- and my letters
                 it,I                                                         ! it
                      I
to people whom trust are sometimes more plain-spoken than polite

about things and men. You know at first there was some talk of

my possibly supplying Gladstone's place in case of his failure, and                                 aa I

would not be sure of my politeness in that quarter

    Pray do not suppose that your former letter was other than

deeply interesting and touching to me.                          had more than half
                                        I
mind to reply to but hesitated with man's horror of touchingI is a
                 I
                                                   I
                       it,
                             a
wound he cannot heal.           bout of " liver,"               from          which I        am just
     And then got bad
                                                                                            1
picking up.

                                                                Hodeslea, Sept. 22, 894.

    It's rather rollicking epistle, must say, but as my wife (whoa

sends her love) says she thinks she                             the only person who has             a

right to complain (and she does not), do not know why should                         it

not be published.

    P.S. -- fancy very few people will catch the allusion about not
         I

contradicting me. But perhaps                                   would be better to take the
                                I
opinion of some impartial judge on that point.
                                         it

                                                   iIf
                                                        I

                                                                                           a
                                                                                                 it.

                                                                         I
AI  do not care the least on my own account, but see my words

might be twisted into meaning that you had told me something about

your previous guest, and that referred to what you had said.
     Of course you had done nothing of the kind, but as wary old
fox, experienced sufferer from the dodges of the misrepresenter,

feel bound not to let you get into any trouble                                can help

         regular lady's P.S. this.

    P.S. -- Letter returned herewith.

                    To Mr. Leslie Stephen

                                                                Hodeslea, Oct.       1       I894.
                                                                                       a 6,
     My dear Stephen -- am very glad you like to have my omnium

gatherum, and think the better of for gaining me such pleasant
         is
            a

                              I

                                                          it
letter of acknowledgment.

     It great loss to me to be cut off from all my old friends,

but sticking closely to my hermitage, with fresh air and immense

quantities of rest, have become the conditions of existence for me,

and one must put up with them.

         have    not paid all the debt                        incurred in my  Oxford escapade yet
           last  " little bill " being                          sharp attack  of lumbago, out of
--I the
     I
              I
                               I

                                                             a
which hope have now emerged. But my deafness alone should

bar me from decent society.                                   have not the moral courage to avoid

382

making shots at what people say, so as not to bore them ; and the

results are sometimes disastrous.

    I don't see there is any real difference between us. You are

charitable enough to overlook the general immorality of the cosmos
         s--corEeveorf
on the                  its having  begotten            morality  in                                 one small part of its
domain.                 yours very  faithfully,                                                      T. H. Huxley.

                        To Mr. G S 1

                                                        HodesleA, Oct. 31, 1894.

     Dear Mr. S         "Liver," "lumbago," and other small ills

the flesh is heir to, have been making me very lazy lately, especially

about letter-writing.

the  Yinocuomhparveehegnotsibinleto--thwehedreeptthhse  where the comprehensible ends in
                                                        symbols which may be used with

confidence so far begin to get shaky.
     It does not
                  ocsfoenesmtoinlidutooupmsaert"icaslbeussbo.slutatenlcTyehe"n--e"ceawstsohamicrysh  that matter should
be composed                                                                                          " may be persistent
whirlpools of a                                                                                      substance, if at rest,

could not affect us (all sensory impression being dependent on

mbweoocutailmodne)betahntedhe"cogsneostmteineqgtuheiunnngtldyfeowrr owuuesldi,g"hfothroefusdthi=fifseore."ntnoTtmhheiontegiovnofslourtoiofunsw"ohficumhnatgtiltiveeirt
us the mental states we call the qualities of things.

      But it needs a very steady head to walk safely among these
abysses of thought, and the only use of letting the mind range

among them is as a corrective to the hasty dogmatism of the so-
called materialists, who talk just as glibly of that of which they
know nothing as the most bigoted of the orthodox.

      Here also stand two letters to Lord Farrer, one before,
the other after, his address at the Statistical Society on the
Relations between Morals, Economics and Statistics, which
touch on several philosophical and social questions, always,
to his mind, intimately connected, and wherein wrong
modes of thought indubitably lead to wrong modes of action.
Noteworthy is a defence of the fundamental method of
Political Economy, however much its limitations might be
forgotten by some of its exponents. The reference to the
Church agitation to introduce dogmatic teaching into the
elementary schools has also a lasting interest.

                                                          1 See p. 365.

                            LETTERS                               383

                                     Hodeslea, NOV. 6, 1894.

yy"ooPuurriMnwycyioleluds"theee(fnauolrthtecaoFt ntahtshreteriteduGitrsioo--tsinnpecWlt(siIhoewnani--snehdvneIorIwt aye"roreeukireningggdheott"w) aoeovbdfeorutwhtetiththheCeotshomDaptoteisvmb.illeissbmseiningog)f

     The a priori road to scientific, political, and all other doctrine is
H.R.H. Satan's invention -- it is the intellectual, broad, and easy

path which leadeth to Jehannum.
     The King's road is the strait path of painful observation and

experiment, and few they be that enter thereon.

R. G. Latham, queerest of men, had singular flashes of insight

now and then. Forty years ago he gravely told me that the existence

of the Established Church was to his mind one of the best evidences

of the recency of the evolution of the human type from the simian.

How much there is to confirm this view in present public opinion

and the intellectual character of those who influence it!

    It explains all your difficulties at once, and I regret that I do
                                     woefrethoysoeungmerid. ---dayEvseyrmpyoousiras
Inot seem to have mentioned it

which were so pleasant when you
                            at any               T. H. Huxley.
                            and

very faithfully,

IP.S. -- Apropos of Athelstan Riley and his friends -- feel rather
Iobliged to them.  assented to the compromise (1) because I felt

that English opinion would not let us have the education of the

Imasses at any cheaper price; (2) because, with the Bible in lay
hands,  was satisfied that the teaching from it would gradually

become modified into harmony with common sense.

    I do not doubt that this is exactly what has happened, and is
the ground of the alarm of the orthodox.

    IBut do not repent of the compromise in the least. Twenty

years of reasonably good primary education is " worth a mass."

Moreover the Diggleites stand to lose anyhow, and they will lose
most completely and finally if they win at the elections this month.

So I am rather inclined to hope they may.

                            HOdEsleA, STAVeleY ROAd, EAsTBOURNe,

                                     Nov. 3, 1894.

My dear Mr. Clodd --They say that the first thing an English

I Iman does when he is hard up for money is to abstain from buying
books. The first thing do when       am liver-y, lumbagy, and

generally short of energy, is to abstain from answering letters.

And I am only just emerging from a good many weeks of that sort
of flabbiness and poverty.

Many thanks for your notice of Kidd's book. Some vile

384                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                    chap, xxn

punsters called it an attempt to put a Kid glove on the iron hand
                I thought it (I mean the book, not the pun) clever
of Nature.

from a literary point of view, and worthless from any other. You

will see that I have been giving Lord Salisbury a Roland for
his Oliver in Nature. But, as hinted, if we only had been in

Section D !
     With my wife's and my kind regards and remembrances -- Ever
                                                                                   T. H. Huxley.
yours very truly,

                                   Athenaeum Club, Dec. 19, 1894.

     My dear Farrer -- I am indebted to you for giving the record

ing angel less trouble than he might otherwise have had, on account
of the worse than usual unpunctuality of the London and Brighton

this morning. For I have utilised the extra time in reading and

thinking over your very interesting address.                                                   a priori
      Thanks for your protest against the mischievous

method, which people will not understand is as gross an anachron

ism in social matters as it would be in Hydrostatics. The so-called
" Sociology " is honeycombed with
                                is    and                                          hard to say who are
                                            a it,

                                                        it
                                                                 is
                                                                       a
worse, the individualists or the collectivists.                                    But in your just

wrath don't forget that there   such thing as science of social

life, for which,    the term had not been so hopelessly degraded,
     is

           if
               if
Politics the proper name.

     Men are beings of certain constitution, who, under certain
                           a

conditions, will as surely tend to act in certain ways as stones will

tend to fall        you leave them unsupported.                                    The laws of their

nature are as invariable as the laws of gravitation, only the applica
tions to particular cases offer worse problems than the case of the

three bodies.                                                                                  work -- the
                                                                                               affairs -- by
     The  Political Economists have gone the                                     right way to
          the physical philosopher follows in                                    all complex
way that
tracing out the effects of one great cause of human action, the

desire of wealth, supposing     to be unchecked.
     if

             is
                   is
                       a is
                                        a
                                          it

                                                                          !
                                                                                a
     If they, or other people, have forgotten that there are other
potent causes of action which may interfere with this,
                                                                                               no fault
                                                                                   it
of scientific method but only their own stupidity.                                     is
                                                                                                    is
      Hydrostatics    not "dismal science,"                                      because water does not
always seek the                                                                    bottle turned upside
down, there         --lowest level e.g. from

                     cork in the neck

      There       much need      that somebody should                                do for what
vaguely called      " Ethics "  just what the Political                            Economists have

done. Settle the question of what will be done under the unchecked

action of certain motives, and leave the problem of "ought" for

subsequent consideration.

     For, whatever they ought to do,  it      quite certain the majority
                                          is

1894 RECEIVES THE DARWIN MEDAL

of men will act as if the attainment of certain positive and negative

pleasures were the end    oof fac"tioEnu.biotics          "  to  tell  us exactly  what will
       We want a science

happen if human beings are exclusively actuated by the desire of

well-being in the ordinary sense. Of course the utilitarians have laid

the foundations of such a science, with the result that the nicknamer

of genius called this branch of science "pig philosophy," making

just the same blunder as when he called political economy "dismal

science."

      "Moderate well-being" may be no more the worthiest end of
life than wealth. But if it is the best to be had in this queer world
--it may be worth trying for

But you will begin to wish the train had been punctual !

Draw comfort from the fact that if error is always with us, it
      a
                                           !

                               I

                                                                               a

                                                                    I
                                                                                                                     is,
at any rate, remediable.  am more hopeful than when                                   was

young.      Perhaps life  --(liEkveermyaotruimrsonvye,ry     as some say)  should  begin
with    little aversion                                      faithfully,

                                                                       T. H. Huxley.

Some years before this, a fund for " Darwin Medal "

had been established in memory of the great naturalist, the

medal to be awarded biennially for researches in biology.

With singular appropriateness, the first award was made to

Dr. A. R. Wallace, the joint propounder of the theory of

Natural Selection, whose paper, entrusted to Darwin's

literary sponsorship, caused the speedy publication of

Darwin's own long -continued researches and speculations.

The second, with equal appropriateness, was to Sir                                    D.
                    a
Hooker, both as
                                                                    ; J.
                          leader in science and a helper and

adviser of Darwin.

Huxley's own view of such scientific honours as medals

and diplomas was that they should be employed to stimu

late for the future rather than to reward for the past and

delighted as he was at the poetic justice of these two awards,

this justice once satisfied, he let his opinion be known that

thenceforward the Darwin Medal ought to be given only to

younger men. But when this year he found the Darwin
Medal awarded to himself " for his researches in biology and

his long association with Charles Darwin," he could not but

be touched and gratified by this mark of appreciation from

his fellow-workers in science, this association in one more

scientific record with old allies and true friends-- to " have

VOL. II                                                                    2
                                                                              C

386  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                     chap, xxii

his niche in the Pantheon " next to Hooker and near to

Darwin.

     It was a rare instance of the fitness of things that the

three men who had done most to develop and to defend
Darwin's ideas should live to stand first in the list of
the Darwin medallists ; and Huxley felt this to be a natural
closing of a chapter in his life, a fitting occasion on which
to bid farewell to public life in the world of science.
Almost at the same moment another chapter in science
reached its completion in the " coming of age " of Nature,

a journal which, when scientific interests at large had grown

stronger, had succeeded in realising his own earlier efforts
to found a scientific organ, and with which he had always

been closely associated.
      As mentioned above, he wrote for the November number

an introductory article called " Past and Present," comparing
the state of scientific thought of the day with that of twenty-

five years before, when the journal was first started. To

celebrate the occasion, a dinner was to be held this same
month of all who had been associated with Nature, and this
Huxley meant to attend, as well as the more important
anniversary dinner of the Royal Society on St. Andrew's

Day.

    I have promised  d(ihnenerwriitfesI  on November    6 to Sir  IMs.hoFuolsdtebre)
                                         possibly can.  Indeed
to go to the Nature

sorry to be away. As to the R.S. nothing short of being confined

to bed will stop me. And I shall be good for a few words after

dinner.

    IThereafter hope not to appear again on any stage.

      His letter about the medal expresses his feelings as to

the award.

                                                                    Hodeslea, Nov. 2, 1894.

    My dear Foster--Didn't I tell the P.R.S., Secretaries, Treas
urer, and all the Fellows thereof, when I spake about Hooker years

ago, that thenceforth the Darwin Medal was to be given to the

young, and not to useless old extinct volcanoes ? I ought to be very

angry with you all for coolly ignoring my wise counsels.

     But whether it is vanity or something a good deal better, I am

not. One gets chill old age, and it is very pleasant to be warmed
up unexpectedly even against one's injunctions. Moreover, my

1894 SPEECH AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY DINNER 387

Iwife is very pleased, not to say jubilant ; and if were made Arch
bishop of Canterbury I should not be able to convince her that my

services to Theology were hardly of the sort to be rewarded in that

fashion.

    I need not say what I think about your action in the matter,
my faithful old friend. With our love to you both -- Ever yours,

                                                                      T. H. Huxley.

    II suppose you are all right again, as you write from the R.S.

Liver permitting shall attend meeting and dinner. It is very

odd that the Medal should come along with my pronouncement

in Nature, which I hope you like. I cut out rather a stinging para

graph at the end.

                                                  Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                          Nov. 11, 1894.

     My dear       Donnelly --    WIhriysh)onsaeyasr,th"  did I    not  answer your
                                                                    of  your infernal
letter before ?      Echo (being                          Because

bad habit of putting off; which is growing upon you, you wretched

old man."
         course I shall be very glad if anything can
     Of                                                   lbeettedronaerrifvoerdS--and.
Howes    has written to me about him since your
I am positively going to answer his epistle. It's Sunday morning,
Iand feel good.
     You will have seen that the R.S. has been giving me the Darwin
IMedal, though
                    gave as broad a hint as was proper the last time
I spoke at the Anniversary, that it ought to go to the young men.

Nevertheless, with the ordinary inconsistency of the so-called
" rational animal," I am well pleased.
    I hope
              you  will be at the dinner, and would       ask you to be my
guest -- but   as                                          would like to be
                   I thought my boys and boys-in-law
there, I have already exceeded my lawful powers of invitation and

Ihad to get a dispensation from Michael           tFhoastter". stands at livery "
    I   suppose     --shbaullt  be like a horse                                             for
        time after              it is positively  my last appearance on                    any
some

stage.

     We were very glad          to hear from Lady         Dloovnen--ellyEvtehratyoyuorsu,  had
      a good and effectual       holiday. With our
had

                                                          T. H. Huxley.

     II return Howes' letter in case you want it.                  see I need not

write to him again after all. Three cheers !

    IPlease give Lady Donnelly this. A number of estimable

members of her sex have flown at me for writing what thought

was a highly complimentary letter. But she will be just, I know.
     "The best of women are apt to be a little weak in the great

practical arts of give-and-take, and putting up with a beating, and

388  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                 chap, xxn

a little too strong in their belief in the efficacy of government.
Men learn about these things in the ordinary course of their business ;
women have no chance in home life, and the boards and councils
will be capital schools for them. Again, in the public interest it
will be well ; women are more naturally economical than men, and
have none of our false shame about looking after pence. Moreover,

they don't job for any but their lovers, husbands, and children, so
that we know the worst."

     The speech at the Royal  Society Anniversary dinner --
which he evidently enjoyed    making -- was a fine piece of

speaking, and quite carried away the audience, whether in

the gentle depreciation of his services to science, or in his

profession of faith in the methods of science and the final

triumph of the doctrine of evolution, whatever theories of its

operation might be adopted or discarded in the course of

further investigation.  Times report of the                    --speech :

     I quote from the

     But the most difficult task that remains is that which con
cerns myself. It is 43 years ago this day since the Royal Society
did me the honour to award me a Royal medal, and thereby

Idetermined my career. But, having long retired                               inatsotonthisehepdo--si
tion of a veteran, I confess that                              was extremely
I honestly also say that I was extremely pleased to receive the

announcement that you had been good enough to award to me the

Darwin Medal. But you know the Royal Society, like all things in

this world, is subject to criticism. I confess that with the ingrained

instincts of an old official that which arose in my mind after the
reception of the information that I had been thus distinguished was
otofficsitaalr--t aHnowinqcaunirymywGhiocvhernI mseunptpobsee
                                                                 suggests  itself to every old
                                                               justified?   In reflecting upon

what had been my own share in what are now very largely ancient

transactions, it was perfectly obvious to me that I had no such
claims as those of Mr. Wallace. It was perfectly clear to me
that I had no such claims as those of my life-long friend Sir
Joseph Hooker, who for 25 years placed all his great sources of
knowledge, his sagacity, his industry, at the disposition of his

friend Darwin. And really, I begin to despair of what possible

answer could be given to the critics whom the Royal Society,

meeting as it does on November 30, has lately been very apt to

hear about on December 1. Naturally there occurred to my mind

that famous and comfortable line, which I suppose has helped

so many people under like circumstances, "They also serve who
Ionly stand and wait."
                        am bound to confess that the standing

i894 SPEECH AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY DINNER 389

and waiting, so far as I am concerned,               to which I refer, has
                                                     I can only explain
been of a somewhat peculiar character.                                 aI

   you will permit me to narrate                     story which came to me in   a
if                                 a                                                     it,

                         aa            Ia
my old nautical days, and which,                     believe, has just as much

foundation as good deal of other information which derived

at the same period from the same source. There was merchant
ship in which member of the Society of Friends had taken passage,

and that ship was attacked by pirate, and the captain thereupon

put into the hands of the member of the Society of Friends pike,

and desired him to take part in the subsequent action, to which, as
you may imagine, the reply was that he would do nothing of the

kind but he said that he had no objection to stand and wait at the
   ;

gangway. He did stand and wait with the pike in his hands, and

when the pirates mounted and showed themselves coming on board

wheerethrumstouhnitsinpgi,keanwdithhethesaisdh,arp"   end forward  into the persons  who
                                                     Friend, keep  on board thine    own
ship." It in that sense that venture to interpret the principle
   I it                          I
            a
                   is                    a
                     I if I
                                       I
                                            I
of standing and waiting to which have referred.                        was con
                                                                       it
vinced as firmly as have ever been convinced of anything in my
                                                                          I
life, that the Origin of Species was ship laden with a cargo of rich                  I
value, and which, she were permitted to pursue her course, would

reach veritable scientific Golconda, and thought my duty, how

ever naturally averse might be to fighting, to bid those who would
disturb her beneficent operations to keep on board their own ship.

If has pleased the Royal Society to recognise such poor services

as may have rendered in that capacity, am very glad, because
                                 II
            convinced now                    I
am as much  by Mr. Darwin    --as                     was 34 years ago that the theory
propounded                                           mean that which he propounded,

not that which has been reported to be his by too many ill-instructed,
both friends and foes -- has never yet been shown to be inconsistent with

any positive observations, and                       may use phrase which know
                             it                      aa                aI
                                          is                                   I

                                       iIf
                                           I
has been objected to, and which use in totally different sense

from that   in which          was first proposed by its            itfir"sthopldrosptohuendfieerld, ,"
do believe  that on all      grounds of pure science

as the only hypothesis at present before us which has                  sound
scientific foundation. It
                                 quite possible that you will apply

to me the remark that has often been applied to persons in such

a  position as mine, that we are apt to exaggerate the importance

of that to which our lives have been more or less devoted. But am
                                                                       I

sincerely of opinion that the views which were propounded by Mr.

Darwin 34 years ago may be understood hereafter as constituting
an epoch in the intellectual history of the human race. They

will modify the whole system of our thought and opinion, our

most intimate convictions. But do not know, do not think any
                                   I
                                                    I

body knows, whether the particular views which he held will be
hereafter fortified by the experience of the ages which come after

39°                  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                     chap, xxii

us ; but of this thing I am perfectly certain, that the present course

of things has resulted from the feeling of the smaller men who

have followed him that they are incompetent to bend the bow

of Ulysses, and in consequence many of them are seeking their

salvation in mere speculation.                   Those who wish to attain to

some clear and definite solution of the great problems which Mr.

Darwin was the first person to set before us in later times must

base themselves upon the facts which are stated in his great work,

and, still more, must pursue their inquiries by the methods of which

he was so brilliant an exemplar throughout the whole of his life.

You must have his sagacity, his untiring search after the knowledge

of fact, his readiness always to give up a preconceived opinion to

that which was demonstrably true, before you can hope to carry his

doctrines to their ultimate issue ; and whether the particular form in

which he has put them before us may be such as is finally destined

to survive or not is more, I venture to think, than anybody is

capable    at this   --pretsheant t   moment     of saying. But   this one  thing is
perfectly   certain                  it is only  by pursuing his  methods,   by that

wonderful single-mindedness, devotion to truth, readiness to sacrifice

all things for the advance of definite knowledge, that we can hope

to come any nearer than we are at present to the truths which he

struggled to attain.

                      To Sir J. D. Hooker

                                                 Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                                  Dec. 4, 1894.

    My dear old Man --See the respect I have for your six years
seniority ! I wished you had been at the dinner, but was glad you

were not. Especially as next morning there was a beastly fog, out

of which I bolted home as fast as possible.
    I shall have to give up these escapades. They knock me up

for a week afterwards. And really it is a pity, just as I have got

Iover my horror of public speaking, and find it very amusing. But
I suppose should gravitate into a bore as old fellows do, and so it
Iis as well am kept out of temptation.
    II will try to remember what said at the Nature dinner.*                I

scolded the young fellows pretty sharply for their slovenly writing.
     There will be a tenth vol. of Essays some day, and an Index

rerum. Do you remember how you scolded me for being too

speculative  in   my  maiden         lecture on Animal Individuality forty odd
years ago ?    "  On  revient        toujours," or, to put it another way, " The

Idog returns to his etc. etc."

      So am deep in philosophy, grovelling through Diogenes

     1 A brief report of this speech is to be found in the British Medical Journal

for December 8, 1894, p. 1262.

1894 LETTERS                                                                                         391

Laertius -- Plutarch's Placita and sich -- and often wondering whether

the schoolmasters have any better ground for maintaining that

Greek is a finer language than English than the fact that they

can't write the latter dialect.

     So far as I can see, my faculties are as good (including memory
for anything that is not useful) as they were fifty years ago, but I
can't work long hours, or live out of fresh air. Three days of

London bowls me over.

     I expect you are in much the same case. But you seem to be
able to stoop over specimens in a way impossible to me. It is that

incapacity has made me give up dissection and microscopic work.

I do a lot on my back, and I can tell you that the latter posture is

an immense economy of strength. Indeed, when my head was

troublesome, I used to spend my time either in active outdoor

exercise or horizontally.

The Stracheys were here the other day, and it was a great
pleasure to us to see them. I think he has had a very close shave
                                                                  I
with that accident.      There        misannoabllodryouwndho--m                 should more delight
                         good                                    but
to honour -- a right                                                            I am not competent

to judge of his work. You are, and I do not see why you should

not suggest              would give him medal for being R. Strachey,
             ?

               I
                      it.
                     I
                                                              a
                                                                                            a
but probably the Council would make difficulties.

      By the       way,  --docaymoue  see the Times has practically climbed down
about the          R.S.               down backwards like bear, growling all

the time           don't think we shall have any more first of December

criticisms.

     Lord help you through all this screed.                                     With our love to you
both -- Ever yours affectionately,                                               T. H. Huxley.

                         Abram, Abraham became

                                      By will divine
                                      !
                                                          ;

                                                                          !
                                                                             *
                         Let pickled Brian's name

                                      Be changed to Brine
                                                      Poetae Minora.
Poor Brian. -- Brutal jest

     The following was written to a friend who had alluded
to his painful recollection of former occasion when he was
Huxley's guest at the anniversary dinner of the Royal

Society, and was hastily summoned from to find his wife

dying.
                         I
                                          a
                                                              it
                                                                                                  :
                                                                      I
fully understand your feeling about the R.S. Dinner.                                                 have
I

                1
not forgotten the occasion when you were my guest still less my
brief sight of you when called the next day.

                   Sir Joseph's son, Brian, had fallen into a pan of brine.

392                    LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                            chap, xxii

          These things are the " lachrymae rerum "-- the abysmal griefs

hidden      under the        current of daily life, and seemingly                  offoarggoonttye--n,
till now    and then         they come up to the surface -- a flash

like the fish that jumps in a calm pool.

          IfOne has one's groan and goes to work again.
        I knew of            anything else for           would tell                                        but all
                             in the questionable      thanksgiving,                                          lucky
experience ends                                 is                       yo"uIt's                                   my
                                                                                                                    it's
                                                    ! iIt,
no worse."
                                                                 !
          With which bit of practical philosophy, and our love, believe
                                                               it,T. H. Huxley.
me, ever yours affectionately,
                                                               I
          Before speaking of his last piece of work, in the vain
                                                                      ? is
endeavour to complete which, he exposed himself to his old                 a
enemy, influenza, shall give several letters of miscellaneous
                       is                                         I
interest.                                                              II ;
                          aI
     The first in reply to Lord Farrer's inquiry as to where                                              a
he could obtain fuller account of the subject tersely dis
                                                                            I
cussed in the chapter he had contributed to the Life of

Owen}

                                                      HodesleA, Jan. 26, 1895.

          My dear Farrer -- Miserable me Having addressed myself
to clear off a heap of letters that have been accumulating,
                                                                                                             find   !I I

have not answered an enquiry of yours of nearly month's standing.

   am sorry  to        say that cannot          tell  peyomumoicfanan"y  book (readable or
otherwise)   that        will convert my          "                      into decent broth
aI                           I
for you.if a                    I

          There are histories of zoology and of philosophical anatomy,

          but they all of them seem to me to miss the point (which you have
          picked out of the pemmican). Indeed, that just why took such

             lot of pains over these 50 or 60 pages. And am immensely
          tickled by the fact that among all the critical notices have seen,

          not soul sees what have been driving at as you have done.

          really wish you would write notice of just to show these Giga
                                   a

          dibses (vide Right Rev. Bloughram) what blind buzzards they are
      Enter maid. "Please sir, Mrs.                                           she would be
glad you would go out in the sun."                    H"uAxllel yrigshat,ys  Allen." Anec
            a

                iIs,
dote for your next essay on Government
          The fact
                             have been knocked up ever since Tuesday, when
our University Deputation came off; and my good wife (who
laid up herself) suspects me (not without reason) of failing to take                                                it
advantage of gleam of sunshine.                                                                                        is is
                    a

'         " Which," wrote Lord Farrer, " just what              wanted as an                               outline of
       1                                                                                                    But
the Biological and Morphological discussion of the last 100 years.                                         thing as a

  Pemmican to an           aged and enfeebled digestion. Is     there        such
diluted solution of          in the shape of any readable book  "
            '
                         it

               A REJECTED MANUSCRIPT                                       393

By the way, can you help us over the University business ?

Lord Rosebery is favourable, and there is absolutely nobody on the

other side    except sundry Philistines,    who,   --haYvoinugrsgovtertyhetirrulyd,egrees,
are desirous    of inflating their market  value.

                                                       T. H. Huxley.

      The next is in answer to an appeal for a subscription,
from the Church Army.

                                                                                  Jan. 26, 1895.

    I regret that I am unable to contribute to the funds of the

Church Army.

    I hold it to be my duty to do what I can for the cases of
distress of which I have direct knowledge ; and I am glad to be

able now and then to give timely aid to the industrious and worthy

people with whom, as a householder, I am brought into personal

relation ; and who are so often engaged in a noiseless and unpitied
but earnest struggle to do well.

     In my judgment, a domestic servant, who is perhaps giving half
her wages to support her old parents, is more worthy of help than
half a dozen Magdalens.

      Under these circumstances, you will understand that such funds

as are at my disposal are already fully engaged.

    The following is to a gentleman --an American, I think
-- who sent him a long manuscript, an extraordinary farrago

of nonsense, to read and criticise, and help to publish. But

--as he seemed to have acted in sheer simplicity, he got an

answer :

                                               Hodeslea, Jan. 31, 1895.

     Dear Sir  --I should  have been  glad if you had  taken the ordinary,
                                                        permission before
and, I think   convenient  course of  writing for my
Iyou sent the essay which has reached me, and which I return by
this post.     should then have had the opportunity of telling you
that I do not undertake to read, or take any charge of such matters,

and we should both have been spared some trouble.
II the more regret this, since being unwilling to return your work
without examination,  have looked at               and feel bound to give
                                             if I it,

                                                                        a
you the following piece of advice, which fear may be distasteful,

as good counsel generally  is.  two  years --      possible, three --read no

     Lock up your essay.   For

popular expositions of science, but devote yourself to course of

sound practical instruction in elementary physics, chemistry, and

biology.

394        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                 chap, xxii

     Then re-read your essay ; do with it as you think best ; and, if

possible, regard a little more  kindly  than  you   are likely to do  at
present, yours faithfully,
                                                   T. H. Huxley.

      The  following   passage from a   letter to Sir     --J.  D.  Hooker
refers to  a striking   discovery made   by Dubois
                                                       :

                                        Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                 Feb. 14, 1895.

                                turned up          something like the
                                to a paper           have just received
    IThe Dutchmen seem to have

" missing link " in Java, according
from Marsh. I expect he was a Socratic party, with his hair rather

low down on his forehead and warty cheeks.

                        Pithecanthropus erectus Dubois (fossil)

rather Aino-ish about the body, small in the calf, and cheese-cutting
in the shins. Le voici !



                      CHAPTER XXIII

                      1895

Two months of almost continuous frost, during which

the thermometer fell below zero, marked the winter of

1894-95. Tough, if not strong, as Huxley's constitution
was, this exceptional cold, so lowering to the vitality of age,

accentuated the severity of the illness which followed in the

train of influenza, and at last undermined even his powers

of resistance.

         But until the influenza seized him, he was more than

usually vigorous and brilliant. He was fatigued, but not

more so than he expected, by attending a deputation to the

Prime Minister in the depth of January, and delivering a

speech on the London University question ; and in February

he was induced to write a reply to the attack upon agnosti

cism contained in Mr. Arthur Balfour's Foundations of Belief.
Into this he threw himself with great energy, all the more

because the notices in the daily press were likely to give

the reading public a wrong impression as to its polemic

against    his own position. Mr. Wilfrid       Ward      :g--ives  an
account    of a conversation with him on this  subject

     Some one had sent me Mr. A. J. Balfour's book on the Founda
tions of Belief early in February 1895. We were very full of

and was the theme of discussion on the 17th of February, when
         it
                it

                                                                      a

                                                                                    It

                                                                                                                       it,
two friends were lunching with us. Not long after luncheon, Huxley
came in, and seemed in extraordinary spirits. He began talking of

Erasmus and Luther, expressing  great preference for Erasmus,

who would, he said, have impregnated the Church with culture, and

brought      abreast  of the thought of the times, while Luther con
centrated  attention                                     " was very
                      on individual mystical doctrines.

396

trying for Erasmus to be identified with Luther, from whom he

differed absolutely. A man ought to be ready to endure persecution

Ifor what he does hold ; but it is hard to be persecuted for what
you don't hold."    said that I thought his estimate of Erasmus's

attitude towards the   Papacy coincided with Professor R. C. Jebb's.

He asked if I could    IlgetonhtdinitkhaimtyohuJaenbodbu, 'gsbhutRtetdoI eardeLdaeedcd--t,urB"eaIlofconauntrh'seleFsnoudubnjeydcoatu.
I said that I had not

another book, which

tions of Belief."
     He at once became extremely animated, and spoke of it as those

     "reYaoduhinsecerditicniosmt lse,npdubmlieshtehdat.in  the following month, would
Iwho have                                                     have exercised my mind

expect.

with it a good deal already. Mr. Balfour ought to have acquainted
himself with the opinions of those he attacks. One has no objection
to being abused for what one does hold, as I said of Erasmus ; at

least, one is prepared to  put up with it.                   An attack   on us   --bymsyosmeelf
one who understood our     position would                  do all of us    good

included. But Mr. Balfour has acted like the French in 1870 :
he has gone to war without any ordnance maps, and without having

surveyed the scene of the campaign. No human being holds the
opinions he speaks of as ' naturalism.' He is a good debater. He
knows the value of a word. The word ' Naturalism ' has a bad
sound and unpleasant associations. It would tell against us in the
House of Commons, and so it will with his readers. ' Naturalism '

contrasts with ' supernaturalism.'               He has not only attacked us for

what we don't hold, but he has been good enough to draw out a
catechism for ' us wicked people,' to teach us what we must hold."
     It was rather
by   degrees. He    sdaifidfi,cu"ltBatolfoguert   him to   particulars, but we did so
                                                 uses the  word phenomena as apply

ing simply to the outer world and not to the inner world. The
only people his attack would hold good of would be the Comtists,

who deny that psychology is a science.                     They may be left

out of account.     They advocate the crudest eighteenth-century
              All the empiricists, from Locke onwards, make the
materialism.

observation of the phenomena of the mind itself quite separate from

the study of mere sensation. No man in his senses supposes that

the sense of beauty, or the religious feelings (this with a courteous
bow to a priest who was present), or the sense of moral obligation,
are to be accounted for in terms of sensation, or come to us through
I Isensation."
                 said that, as understood                  it,did not think Mr.

Balfour supposed they would acknowledge the position he ascribedII
to them, and that one of his complaints was that they did not work

out  othtnheeeioerxfpteMrernrm.ailsBewas lofotroludr--t'sheMcirhililleofgwicapasolinactlomsnowcslatusstiohcenosn.ocnelrynemadda--ndetdohnethteahxteisirtseosnicfdaeer

as

of

in this century who had faced the problem frankly, and he had been

i895 THE 'FOUNDATIONS OF BELIEF'                                                                                                                          397

driven to say that all men can know is that there are " permanent

possibilities of sensation."                                                He did not seem inclined to pursue

the question of an external world, but said that though Mill's "logic"

was very good, empiricists were not bound by all his theories.
     He characterised the book as a very good and even brilliant

piece of work from a literary point of view ; but as a helpful con

IteyHrvoieeburu?atr"nieosanwde.artesokdeItdhw.seaitidhg,"ree"mIatTlpehhtcaeosornieust,trohvna"eosrNssbyoee,ce!rnebtthsune,t"o  most disappointing     he had
                                                                                                                                adverse criticism of
                                                                                                                                                      it   yet."
                                                                                                                               there soon will be."       From
                                                                                                                                                      "
                                                                                                                                was the reply.
He then talked with great admiration and affection of Mr.
            sabbiurdot)t,hienrh,atdhFerbaweneocnrilsd.t--heiHngisroeuaertaetrsiltmy elo.dsesat"hto,HaaslcnfideancWde.o--zeKnn. otoCfloifunfoslyrdo'lisdn
Balfour's

( Huxley
England,
fogies could have been better spared." He remembered
Balfour as a boy at Eton, and saw his unusual talent there.                                                                                           "FTrhanekn

Imy friend, Michael Foster, took him up at Cambridge, and found
out that he had real genius for biology.                                                                                           used to say there was

          in"  the blood,"                                                  but this  new   book                               of  his  brother's,  he added,
               shows was                                                    wrong."
Iscience
                                                                            about the Comtists, one of the company
smiling,                                                                    life Comte recognised a science of " the

      Apropos  to his remark
pointed out    that in later

iYm"noyTduhivwaisdtife,ue"e,a,"lh,""ehwerheeaapqtdluideipevdoda,wl,een"r"t      to what Huxley meant                                        by psychology.
                                                                            was due to the influence of                                 Clotilde de Vaux.
                                                                                                                                        Grandison bow to
                                                                            with a kind of Sir Charles
                                                                             your sex may have." As                                     Huxley was going
out of the house, I said to him that Father A. B. (the priest who
had been present) had not expected to find himself in his com

pany. " No ! I trust he had plenty of holy water with him," was

the reply.

. . . After he had gone, we were all agreed as to the extra

ordinary    vigour and brilliancy                                                       he   had shown. Some one said,
" He is   like a man who is what                                                      the   Scotch call ' fey.' " We laughed

at the idea, but we naturally recalled the remark later on.

The story of how the article was written is told in the

following letters. It was suggested by Mr. Knowles, and

undertaken after perusal of the review of the book in the

Times. Huxley intended to have the article ready for the

March number of the Nineteenth Century, but it grew longer

than he had meant it to be, and partly for this reason, partly

for fear lest the influenza, then raging at Eastbourne, might

prevent him from revising the whole thing at once, he divided

it into two instalments.                                                              He writes to one daughter on

March --1 :

398             LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         chap, xxiii

sun  I suppose my time will come       ; so I am " making         hay while the
                                                                 a gale outside)
     shines " (in point of fact it is  raining and blowing

and finishing my counterblast to Balfour before it does come.

     Love to all you poor past snivellers from an expectant sniveller.

     And to another :--

    I think the cavalry charge in this month's Nineteenth will amuse

you. The heavy artillery and the bayonets will be brought into
play next month.

      Dean Stanley told me he thought being made a bishop destroyed

a man's moral courage. I am inclined to think that the practice of

the methods of political leaders destroys their intellect for all serious

purposes.

      No sooner was the first part safely sent off than the
contingency he had feared came to pass ; only, instead of

the influenza meaning incapacity for a fortnight, an unlucky
chill brought on bronchitis and severe lung trouble.* The
second part of the article was never fully revised for press.

                                          Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                   February 8, 1895.

    My dear Knowles --Your telegram came before I had looked
Iat to-day's Times and the article on Balfour's book, so answered

Iwith hesitation.
      Now am inclined to think that the job may be well worth

Idoing, in that it will give me the opportunity of emphasising the

distinction between the view hold and Spencer's, and perhaps of

proving that Balfour is an agnostic after my own heart. So please

send the book.

     Only if this infernal weather, which shrivels me up soul and
body, lasts, I do not know how long       Itimme.ay--bEevTeo.rveHyro. utHrhseuvxeblrueysyinf.aeistsh.

However, you tell me to take my own

fully,

                                          Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                   February 18, 1895.

     My dear    Knowles -- I    send you  by this  post an instalment (the
                                          should   be glad to have set up
larger moiety)  of my article,  which I

    I1 As he wrote on February 28 to Sir M. Foster : " If could compound for
a few hours' neuralgia, I would not mind ; but those long weeks of debility
make me very shy of the influenza demon. Here we are practically isolated. . . .
II once asked Gordon why he didn't have the African fever. ' Well,' he said,
' you see, fellows think they shall have it, and they do.  didn't think so, and

didn't get it.' Exercise your thinking faculty to that extent."

1895 THE ' FOUNDATIONS OF BELIEF'                                                                           399

at once in slip, and sent to me as speedily as may be. The rest
shall follow in the course of the next two or three days.
    I am rather                                     myyosuerlsf,elfs.To--. itHEi.vseHpr ruoyxobulaerbsyly.
                      pleased     with   the thing                                                           not
so very good !       But you       will  judge for                                                          very
faithfully,

                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                 February 19, 1895.

    My dear Knowles --We send our best congratulations to Mrs.
wGKnhraeontwhdeleprsereyao"nudohryaovneuorts--healfdbuotnanyIthecparenbviioratushssuroeef xapyeorugie,ranncfrdeodmaoufgh1t4theer.su"cAh rItefxdop'reegtreriet

ences, that it is easy and pleasant of acquirement, and that the

objects of it are veritable "articles de luxe," involving much amuse

ment and no sort of responsibility on the part of the possessor.
     You shall have the rest of my screed by to-morrow's post. -- Ever
                                                    T. H. Huxley.
yours very faithfully,

                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                                 February 20, 1895.

    My dear Knowles -- Seven mortal Ihours have been hard at
work this day to try to keep my promise to you, and as I find that
impossible, I have struck work and will see Balfour and his Founda

tions, and even that ark of literature the Nineteenth, at Ballywack,

before I do any more.

     But the whole affair shall be sent by a morning's post tomorrow.
I have the proofs. I have found the thing getting too long for one
                                                than I could put into the next
Iptwaoperd,ayasn--drequiring far    more care
                   so propose     to divide       you see no objection.
     it I I

                    is
                         it
                             is

                           aI

                                                        it,

                                                 if
                                                      if

                                                                       it
                                                                                                      is

                                                                                                           it
     And there another reason for this course. Influenza raging
htbheeerfeo.rwe,orldhgeofaorrtogoobft"ehd--unaudnnredtidl sstoopafmcathskeeirslel,e--dand"orthceurwedcoo.rmldesSfoomrgyyeotwutianygw, oauaslndd
                                                                                                                                                 did
                                                                                                                                                  by
                                                                                                                                                 not

get your article.
     As stands,
                        not bad gambit. We will play the rest of
           afterwards, D.V. and          K.V.
the  game  mother and baby are           doing  well. -- Ever
     Hope
                                                               yours,
                                                    T. H. Huxley.

                                                    Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                   February 23, 1895, 12.30 P.M.

     My dear Knowles -- have just played and won as hard
                                  II

                                                               1

                                                                6I
                                                                                                                        a
match against time as                    ever knew in the days of my youth.

The proofs, happily, arrived by the first post, so got to work at

them before 9, polished them off by 2, and put them into the post

(myself) by 12.5. So you ought to have them by p.m. And, to

400

Imake your mind easy, have just telegraphed to you to say so.
                                                                                 part of
IBut, Lord's                                               eye run  over the     in the    which
I have had                                                 capable  de tout "             way of
              sake ! let some                  caarmeful"

              no revise -- for

overlooking errors.                                        The second instalment shall

    I am very glad you like the thing.

be no worse.

    II grieve to say that my estimation of Balfour, as a thinker, sinks

lower and lower, the further go.

      God help the people who think his book an important contribu
tion to thought ! The Gigadibsians who say so are past divine

assistance !

on   sWo eweallr.e--veErvyerglyaodurtso  hear  the grandchild       and mother are getting
                                         very  truly,                   T. H. Huxley.

                                                           Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                                      March 8, 1895.

    My dear Knowles -- The proofs have just arrived, but I am
Isorry to say that (I believe for the first time in our transactions)
shall have to disappoint you.
    IJust after
                   had sent off the MS. influenza came down upon me
with a swoop.
                   I went to bed and am there still, with no chance of

quitting it in a hurry. My wife is in the same case ; item one of the
maids. The house is a hospital, and by great good fortune we have

a capital nurse.
     IDoctors says it's a mild type.* in which case
Isevere types may be like.                                                       wonder what

                                         find coughing continuously for fourteen
hours or so a queer kind of mildness.
                                                               of
     Could   you   put  in an            excuse on account          influenza    ?
     Can't  write  any   more.
                                         -- Ever yours,                          T. H.    H.

                                                           Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
                                                                                 March 19, 1895.

     My dear Knowles -- I am making use of the pen of my dear

daughter and good nurse, in the first place to thank you for your

cheque, in the second place to say that you must not look for the
                           I haven't
article this month.                              been out of        bed   since  --thEever1sty, obuurst
they are fighting a     battle with            bronchitis over      my   body.

very faithfully,                                           For T. H. H.,
                                                                   Sophy Huxley.

     The next four months were a period of painful struggle

against disease, borne with a patience and gentleness which

was rare even in the long experience of the trained nurses

    "1 But in the matter of aches and pains, restless paroxysms                of coughing and
general incapacity, I can give it a high character for efficiency."             (To M. Foster,

March 7.)

1895 HIS LAST ILLNESS                                                             401

who tended him. To natural toughness of constitution he
added a power of will unbroken by the long strain ; and for
the sake of others to whom his life meant so much, he wished

to recover and willed to do everything towards recovery.

And so he managed to throw off the influenza and the

severe bronchitis which attended it. What was marvellous

at his age, and indeed would scarcely have been expected in

a young man, most serious mischief induced by the bronchitis

disappeared. By May he was strong enough to walk from

the terrace to the lawn and his beloved saxifrages, and to

remount the steps to the house without help.

But though the original attack was successfully thrown

off, the lung trouble had affected the heart ; and in his
weakened state, renal mischief ensued. Yet he held out

splendidly, never giving in, save for one hour of utter pro

stration, all through this weary length of sickness. His

first recovery strengthened him in expecting to get well from

the second attack.              And   o:--n  June         10      he writes  brightly
                              Hooker
enough to Sir J. D.

                                                          Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                                  June 10, 1895.

My dear old Friend -- It was cheering to get your letter and

to hear that you had got through winter and diphtheria without scathe.

    I Ican't say very much for myself yet, but am carried down to
Ia tent in the garden every day, and live in the fresh air all can.

IThe thing that keeps me back is an irritability of the stomach tend
ing to   the   rejection of   --all thsoalnidksfotood.my  However, I think am slowly
getting   the   better of it
                                                          constitutional toughness and

Icareful nursing and dieting.

      What has Spencer been
                              trampling on the " Pour le merite " for,

when he accepted the Lyncei ?                was just writing to congratulate
Ihim when, by good luck, saw he had refused !
IThe beastly nausea which comes on when try to do anything

warns me to stop.    to  you  both-- Ever                 yours,  T. H. Huxley.
      With our love

The last time I saw him was on a visit to Eastbourne

from June 22-24. I was astonished to find how well he
looked in spite of all ; thin, indeed, but browned with the

endless sunshine of the 1895 summer as he sat every day in
                     His voice was still fairly strong ; he was
the verandah.

delighted to see us about him, and was cheerful, even merry

VOL. II                                                                      2D

4<H           LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                       chap, xxiii

at times. As the nurse said, she could not expect him to
recover, but he did not look like a dying man. When I

asked him how he was, he said, " A mere carcass, which has

to be tended by other people." But to the last he looked for

ward to recovery. One day he told the nurse that the doctors

must be wrong about the renal mischief, for if they were right,
he ought already to be in a state of coma. This was
precisely what they found most astonishing in his case ; it
seemed as if the mind, the strong nervous organisation, were
triumphing over the shattered body. Herein lay one of the

chief hopes of ultimate recovery.
     As late as June 26 he wrote, with shaky handwriting

but indomitable spirit, to relieve his old friend from the

anxiety he must feel from the newspaper bulletins.

                                        Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                                             June 26, 1895.

      My dear Hooker-- The pessimistic reports of my condition

Iwhich have got into the papers may be giving you unnecessary

alarm for the condition of your old comrade. So send a line to

tell  you the exact state of affairs.   on -- and
      There is kidney mischief going
                                                             it is accompanied   by

very distressing attacks of nausea and vomiting, which sometimes

last for hours and make life a burden.

      However, strength keeps up very well considering, and of course
Iall depends

feel at all
          I   luikpeon"  how the  renal business goes.        At present don't
                         sending  in my checks," and         without being over
          of
sanguine      rather incline to   otrhiontkhertwhaiste.m--y  native toughness    will get
the best                                                     Ever your faithful   friend,
              it-- albuminuria

                                                             T. H. H.

     Misfortunes never come single. My son-in-law, Eckersley, died
of yellow fever the other day at San Salvador --just as he was going
to take up an appointment at Lima worth £1200 a year. Rachel
and her three children have but the slenderest provision.

     The next two days there was a slight improvement, but
on the third morning the heart began to fail. The great

pain subdued by anaesthetics, he lingered on about seven

hours, and at half-past three on June 29 passed away very
quietly.

     He was buried at Finchley, on July 4, beside his brother

George and his little son Noel, under the shadow of the oak,

1895 HIS DEATH                                                          403

which had grown up into a stately young tree from the little

sapling it had been when the grave of his first-born was dug

beneath;       five and thirty years before.

    There was no official ceremony. An old friend, Mr.it,

Llewellyn Davies, came from Kirby Lonsdale to read the

service the many friends who gathered at the grave-side were

there as friends mourning the death of friend, and all
                                                a
touched with the same sense of personal loss.        a

by   By his    special direction, three  lines from  --plioneems   written
    his wife,  were inscribed upon his   tombstone                inspired

by his own robust conviction that, all question of the future

apart, this life  as can be     lived,   pain,  sorrow,    and    evil  not
withstanding,                   well    worth
                   worth --and                  -- living   --
                is                                         ;:
                      it

               Be not afraid, ye waiting hearts that weep
               For still He giveth His beloved sleep,
               And an endless sleep He wills, so best.
                  if

                   CHAPTER XXIV

He had intellect to comprehend his highest duty distinctly, and force
of character to do it ; which of us dare ask for a higher summary of
his life than that ?

      Such was Huxley's epitaph upon Henslow ; it was the

standard which he endeavoured to reach in his own life. It

is the expression of that passion for veracity which was

perhaps his strongest characteristic ; an uncompromising

passion for truth in thought, which would admit no particle

of self-deception, no assertion beyond what could be verified ;

for truth in act, perfect straightforwardness and sincerity,
with complete disregard of personal consequences for uttering

unpalatable fact.

Truthfulness, in his eyes, was the cardinal virtue, without

which no stable society can exist. Conviction, sincerity, he

always respected, whether on his own side or against him.

Clever men, he would say, are as common as blackberries ;
the rare thing is to find a good one. The lie from interested

motives was only more hateful to him than the lie from self-
delusion or foggy thinking. With this he classed the " sin
of faith," as he called it ; that form of credence which does
not fulfil the duty of making a right use of reason ; which

prostitutes reason by giving assent to propositions which are

neither self-evident nor adequately proved.
     This principle has always been far from finding universal

acceptance. One of his theological opponents went so far

as to affirm that a doctrine may be not only held, but

dogmatically insisted on, by a teacher who  is, all the time,

                                              it
fully aware that science may ultimately prove to be quite

untenable.

CHAP. XXIV                       SINCERITY

      His one course went to the opposite extreme. In

teaching, where it was possible to let the facts speak for

themselves, he did not further urge their bearing upon wider
problems. He preferred to warn beginners against drawing
superficial inferences in favour of his own general theories,
from facts the real meaning of which was not immediately

apparent. Father Hahn (S.J.), who studied under him in

1 876, writes :--

One day when I was talking to him, our conversation turned
                                               thing about you I cannot under
Iupon evolution. "There is one
stand,"           said, "and I should          like a word in explanation. For
Iseveral months now have been
                                               attending your course, and I have

never heard you mention evolution, while in your public lectures

everywhere you openly proclaim yourself .an evolutionist."1

Now it would be impossible to imagine a better opportunity for

insisting on evolution than his lectures on comparative anatomy,

when animals are set side by side in respect of the gradual develop

ment of functions. But Huxley was so reserved on this subject

in his lectures     that, speaking   one day of     aadsdpeecdie:s--forming  a  transi
tion between      two others, he    immediately
      "When I speak of transition I do not in the least mean to say

Ithat one species turned into a second to develop thereafter into a
third. What mean          a is,  that the characters of the second are

intermediate between those of the two others.             It

                                                               is

                                                                  iIf

                                                                                        is
                                                                                            a
                                                                  as were to

say that such and such           cathedral, Canterbury, for example,

transition between York Minster and Westminster Abbey. No

one would imagine, on hearing the word transition, that trans
                                                                             a

mutation of these buildings actually took place from one into

another."         return  to his reply --
     B" uHtertoe  in my
                          teaching lectures
                          a                    (he  said  to me)  have time to put
                                       it :                     II
                                           is                                      I
the facts fully before trained audience. In my public lectures

am obliged to pass rapidly over the facts, and put forward my
personal convictions. And
                                               for this that people come to hear

me."

     As to the question whether children should be brought

up in entire disregard to the beliefs rejected by himself, but
still current among the mass of his fellow-countrymen, he
was of opinion that they ought to know " the mythology of
their time and country," otherwise one would at the best

         1  Revue ties Questions Scientifiques (Brussels), for October 1895.

4o6                LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                   chap.

tend to make young prigs of them ; but as they grew up,

their questions should be answered frankly.*

     The natural tendency to veracity, strengthened by the

observation of the opposite quality in one with whom he

was early brought into contact, received its decisive impulse,

as has been told before, from Carlyle, whose writings

confirmed and established his youthful reader in a hatred of

shams and make-believes equal to his own.

     In his mind no compromise was possible between truth

and untruth.2 Against authorities and influences he

published Man's Place in Nature, though warned by his

friends that to do so meant ruin to his prospects. When

he had once led the way and challenged the upholders of

conventional orthodoxy, others backed him up with a whole

armoury of facts. But his fight was as far as possible for

the truth itself, for fact, not merely for controversial victory

or personal triumph. Yet, as has been said by a repre

sentative of a very different school of thought, who can

wonder that he should have hit out straight from the

shoulder, in reply to violent or insidious attacks, the stupidity

of which sometimes merited scorn as well as anger ?

     In his theological controversies he was no less careful to

avoid any approach to mere abuse or ribaldry such as some

opponents of Christian dogma indulged in. For this reason

he refused to interpose in the well-known Foote case.

Discussion, he said, could be carried on effectually without

deliberate wounding of others' feelings.

      As  h1e2,w1ro8t8e3)in:--reply  to  an  appeal    for  help    in  this  case
(March

     I have not read the writings for which Mr. Foote was prosecuted.
IBut, unless their nature has been grossly misrepresented,
say that I feel disposed to intervene on his behalf.                        cannot

    I1 The wording of a paragraph in Professor Mivart's "Reminiscences" (Nine

teenth Century, December 1897, p. 993), tends, think, to leave a wrong im

pression on   this point.  when  urged to write  a more eulogistic  notice  of a dead
     f As he  once said,
Ifriend than he thought deserved, "The only serious temptations to perjury have
Iever known have arisen out of the desire to be of some comfort to people cared
Iffor in trouble.  there are such things as Plato's ' Royal Lies ' they are surely
those which one is tempted to tell on such occasions. Mrs.
                                                                    is such a good
devoted little woman, and I am so doubtful about having a soul, that it seems

absurd to hesitate to peril it for her satisfaction."

XXIV FREEDOM OF SPEECH                                                                         407

    I am ready to go great lengths in defence of freedom of discussion,
Ibut decline to admit that rightful freedom is attacked, when a man

is prevented from coarsely and brutally insulting his neighbours'

honest beliefs.
Iequal
        would    rather make an effort to get legal        bplaesnpahlteiemsersinf--licwtehdo  with
         rigour   on some of the anti-scientific                                                 are

quite as coarse and unmannerly in their attacks on opinions worthy
of all respect as Mr. Foote can possibly have been.

     The grand result of his determination not to compromise
where truth was concerned, was the securing freedom of

thought and speech. One man after another, looking back

on his work, declares that if we can say what we think now,
it is because he fought the battle of freedom. Not indeed
the battle of toleration, if toleration means toleration of error

for its own sake. Error, he thought, ought to be extirpated

by all legitimate means, and not assisted because it is con

scientiously held.     wrote,  soon                        after  his death  :--
     As Lord Hobhouse

I Isee now many laudatory notices of him in papers. But
have not seen, and I think the younger men do not know, that
Iwhich (apart from science)
                             should put forward as his strongest

claim to reverence and gratitude ; and that is the steadfast courage

and consummate ability with which he fought the battle of in

tellectual freedom, and insisted that people should be allowed to

speak their honest convictions without being oppressed or slandered
                  He was one of those, perhaps the very foremost,
by the orthodox.

who won that priceless freedom for us ; and, as is too common,

people enter into the labours of the brave, and do not even know

what their elders endured, or what has been done for themselves.

     With this went a proud independence of spirit, intolerant
of patronage, careless of titular honours, indifferent to the ac
cumulation of worldly wealth. He cared little even for recogni

tion of his work ; " If I had £400 a year,"1 he exclaimed at

the outset of his career, " I should be content to work anony
mously for the advancement of science." The only recogni
tion he considered worth having, was that of the scientific

world ; yet so little did he seek so little insist on questions
of priority, that, as Professor Howes tells me, there are at
South Kensington among the mass of unpublished drawings
1
                        a

                                                      it,
       A sum which might have supported a bachelor, but was entirely inadequate
to the needs of large family.

408  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY            chap.

from dissections made by him, many which show that he had
arrived at discoveries which afterwards brought credit to

other investigators.
       He was as ready to disclaim for himself any merits which

really belonged to his predecessors, whether philosophical or
scientific. He was too well read in their works not to be
aware of the debt owed them by his own generation, and he
reminded the world how little the scientific insight of Goethe,
for instance, or the solid labours of Buffon or Reaumur or

Lamarck, deserved oblivion.
      The only point on which he did claim recognition was

the honesty of his motives. He was incapable of doing

anything underhand, and he could not bear even the appear
ance of such conduct towards his friends, or those with whom
he had business relations. In such cases he always took the
bull by the horns, acknowledged an oversight or explained
what was capable of misunderstanding. The choice between
Edward Forbes and Hooker for the Royal Society's medal,
or the explanations to Mr. Spencer for not joining a social
reform league of which the latter was a prominent member,

will serve as instances.

     IThe most considerable difference  note among men (he wrote,)

is not in their readiness to fall into error, but in their readiness to

acknowledge these inevitable lapses.

     For himself, he let no personal feelings stand in the way

when fact negatived his theories : once convinced that they

were untenable, he gave up Bathybius and the European
origin of the Horse without hesitation.

     The regard in which he was held by his friends was such

that he was sometimes appealed to by both parties in a dis

pute. He was a man to be trusted with the confidence of
his friends. " Yes, you are quite right about ' loyal,' " he
writes to Mr. Knowles, " I
enemies -- which may not be  love my friends and hate my
                             in accordance with the Gospel,

but I have found it a good wearing creed for honest men."
But he only regarded as " enemies " those whom he found to

be double-dealers, shufflers, insincere, untrustworthy ; a fair

opponent he respected, and he could agree to differ with a

friend without altering his friendship.

XXIV IMPRESSION ON HIS FRIENDS                                    409

    A lifelong impression of him was thus summed up by

Dr. A. R. Wallace :--

I find that he was my junior by two years, yet he has always

Iseemed to me to be the older, mainly no doubt, because from the
very first time  saw him (now more than forty years ago), I re

cognised his vast superiority in ability, in knowledge, and in all

those qualities that enable a man to take a foremost place in the

world. I owe him thanks for much kindness and for assistance

always cordially given, and although we had many differences of

opinion, I never received from him a harsh or unkind word.

To those who could only judge him from his contro

versial literature, or from a formal business meeting, he often

appeared hard and unsympathetic, but never to those who

saw beneath the surface.     In personal     intercourse,  if he  dis
                              individuality   has strong          and
liked a man -- and a strong                                likes

dislikes-- he would merely veil his feelings under a super
abundant politeness of the chilliest kind ; but to any one

admitted to his friendship he was sympathy itself. And thus,

although I have heard him say that his friends, in the fullest

sense of the word, could be reckoned on the fingers of one

hand, the impression he made upon all who came within the

circle of his friendship was such that quite a number felt

themselves to possess his intimacy, and one wrote, after his
death : " His many private friends are almost tempted to

forget the public loss, in thinking of the qualities which so

endeared him to them all."

Both the speculative and the practical sides of his

intellect were strongly developed. On the one hand, he

had an intense love of knowledge, the desire to attain true

knowledge of facts, and to organise them in their true rela

tions. His contributions to pure science never fail to illus

trate both these tendencies. His earlier researches brought

to light new facts in animal life, and new ideas as to the

affinities of the creatures he studied ; his later investigations

were coloured by Darwin's views, and in return contributed

no little direct evidence in favour of evolution. But while

the progress of the evolution theory in England owed more

to his clear and unwearied exposition than to any other

cause, while from the first he had indicated the points, such

as the causes of sterility and variation, which must be cleared

41o  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                     chap.

up by further investigation in order to complete the Darwinian

theory, he did not add another to the many speculations since

put forward.
     On the other hand, intense as was his love of pure know

ledge, it was balanced by his unceasing desire to apply that
knowledge in the guidance of life. Always feeling that
science was not solely for the men of science, but for the

people, his constant object was to help the struggling world
to ideas which should help them to think truly and so to

live rightly. It is still true, he declared, that the people
perish for want of knowledge. " If I am to be remembered
at all," he writes (see Vol. I. p. 510), " I should like to be

remembered as one who did his best to help the people."
And again, he says in his Autobiographical Sketch, that other

marks of success were as nothing if he could hope that he
" had somewhat helped that movement of opinion which has

been called the New Reformation."
      This kind of aim in his work, of taking up the most

fruitful idea of his time and bringing it home to all, is typified
by his remark as he entered New York harbour on his visit

to America in 1 876, and watched the tugs hard at work as

they traversed the bay. " If I were not a man," he said, " I

think I should like to be a tug."
      Two incidents may be cited to show that he did not

entirely fail of appreciation among those whom he tried to
help. Speaking of the year 1874, Professor Mivart writes
(Reminiscences of T. H. Huxley, Nineteenth Century, Dec.
1897) :--

    I recollect going with him and Mr. John Westlake, Q.C., to a

meeting of artisans in the Blackfriars Road, to whom he gave a

friendly address. He felt a strong interest in working-men, and

was much beloved by them. On one occasion, having taken a cab

home, on his arrival there, when he held out his fare to the cab

man, the latter replied, " Oh no, Professor, I have had too much

fprloeamsuyreouranpdockperto--fitprforoumd   hearing    you lecture to take  any  money
                                            to have   driven you, sir ! "

    The other is from a letter to the Pall Mall Gazette of

September 20, 1892, from Mr. Raymond Blaythwayt, on

" The Uses of Sentiment " :--

XXIV AS AN ADMINISTRA TOR                                                         411

    IOnly to-day had a most striking instance of sentiment come
beneath my notice. I was about to enter my house, when a plain,

                 hwisorkhiantg, -mheansacidam, e"  up to me with a note in     his hand,
Isimply-dressed                                       think this is for you,    sir," and

and touching
then he added, "Will you give me the envelope, sir, as a great
favour?" I looked at                                            bore the signature of
                                                           will but why do you ask
Professor Huxley, replied,
                 I                    "anCdertaseineliyngI

                                 it,                           it

                                                                         ;

for it?" "Well," said he, "it's got Professor Huxley's signature,

and will be something for me to show my mates and keep for
      it

my children. He have done me and my like lot of good no
                                                                            a  ;

man more."

      In practical administration, his judgment of men, his
rapid perception of the essential points at issue, his obser
vance of the necessary limits of official forms, combined with

the greatest possible elasticity within these limits, made him

extremely successful.

As Professor (writes the late Professor Jeffery Parker), Huxley's

rule was characterised by what        a is           undoubtedly the best policy for
                                                   new subordinate. " The General,"
the head of department. To
          it
as he was always called, was rather stern and exacting, but whena

once he was convinced that his man was to be trusted, he practically
let him take his own course never interfered in matters of detail,
                               a;
accepted suggestions with the greatest courtesy and good humour,
                                 I
and was always ready with kindly and humorous word of encour

agement in times of difficulty.                    was once grumbling to him about

how   hsaeaprripdeesaroefdw."Nasovteo"mNcbaeervrryerfoogmns,intd"h,ewhPweanorkrkenre,o"itfhhetehr essauliand,bnoinorarsttoastrnaytrlsythircnoaupmpgaihnngya
long
days
my quotation, " cast four anchors out of the stern and wish for day."

       Nothing, indeed, better illustrates this willingness to listenit 6, a
to suggested improvements than the inversion of the order
of studies in the biological course which he inaugurated in     a
1872, namely, the substitution of the anatomy of a vertebrate
for the microscopic examination of unicellular organism
as the opening study. This was entirely Parker's doing.
" As one privileged at the time to play minor part," writes

Professor Howes (Nature, January 1898, p. 228), "I well

recall the determination in Parker's mind that the change

was desirable, and in Huxley's, that was not. Again and

again did Parker appeal in vain, until at last, on the morning
of October 2, 1878, he triumphed."

412  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                  chap.

      On his students he made a deep and lasting impression.

     His lectures (writes Jeffery Parker) were like his writings,
luminously clear, without the faintest disposition to descend to the
level of his audience ; eloquent, but with no trace of the empty
rhetoric which so often does duty for that quality ; full of a high
seriousness, but with no suspicion of pedantry ; lightened by an
occasional epigram or flashes of caustic humour, but with none of
the small jocularity in which it is such a temptation to a lecturer
to indulge. As one listened to him one felt that comparative anatomy
was indeed worthy of the devotion of a life, and that to solve a
morphological problem was as fine a thing as to win a battle. He
was an admirable draughtsman, and his blackboard illustrations
were always a great feature of his lectures, especially when, to show
the relation of two animal types, he would, by a few rapid strokes
and smudges, evolve the one into the other before our eyes. He

seemed to have a real affection for some of the specimens illustrating
his lectures, and would handle them in a peculiarly loving manner ;
when he was lecturing on man, for instance, he would sometimes
thrown his arm over his shoulder of the skeleton beside him and
take its hand, as if its silent companionship were an inspiration.
To me his lectures before his small class at Jermyn Street or South
Kensington were almost more impressive than the discourses at the
Royal Institution, where for an hour and a half he poured forth a
stream of dignified, earnest, sincere words in perfect literary form,
and without the assistance of a note.

     Another description is from the pen of an old pupil in
the autumn of 1876, Professor H. Fairfield Osborn, of

Columbia College :--

     Huxley, as a teacher, can never be forgotten by any of his
students. He entered the lecture-room
striking nine,* rather quickly, and with  promptly as the clock  "waass
                                          his head bent forward

if oppressive with its mind." He usually glanced attention to his

class of about ninety, and began speaking before he reached his
chair. He spoke between his lips, but with perfectly clear analysis,

with thorough interest, and with philosophic insight which was far
above the average of his students. He used very few charts, but

handled the chalk with great skill, sketching out the anatomy of an

animal as if it were a transparent object. As in Darwin's face, and

as in Erasmus Darwin's or Buffon's, and many other anatomists

with a strong sense of form, his eyes were heavily overhung by a

projecting forehead and eyebrows, and seemed at times to look

inward. His lips were firm and closely set, with the expression of

     In most years the lectures began at ten.

XXIV AS A LECTURER                                               413

positiveness, and the other feature which most marked him was the
very heavy mass of hair falling over his forehead, which he would

frequently stroke or toss back. Occasionally he would light up the

monotony of anatomical description by a bit of humour.

Huxley was the father of modern laboratory instruction ; but in

1879 he was so intensely engrossed with his own researches that he
very seldom came through the laboratory, which was ably directed
by T. Jeffery Parker, assisted by Howes and W. Newton Parker, all

of whom are now professors, Howes having succeeded to Huxley's

chair. Each visit, therefore, inspired a certain amount of terror,

which was really unwarranted, for Huxley always spoke in the

kindest tones to his students, although sometimes he could not

resist making fun at their expense. There was an Irish student
who sat in front of me, whose anatomical drawings in water-colour

were certainly most remarkable productions. Huxley, in turning over

"Ihis drawing-book, paused at a large blur, under which was carefully
inscribed, "sheep's liver," and smilingly said,  am glad to know
that is a liver ; it reminds me as much of Cologne cathedral in a fog

as of anything I have ever seen before." Fortunately the nationality
of the student enabled him to fully appreciate the humour.

     The same note is sounded in Professor Mivart's         descrip

tion of these lectures in his Reminiscences :--

The great value of Huxley's anatomical ideas, and the admirable

clearness with which he explained them, led me in the autumn of

1 86 1 to seek admission as a student to his course of lectures at the

ISchool of Mines in Jermyn Street. When entered his small room

there to make this request, he was giving the finishing touches to a
dissection of part of the nervous system of a skate, worked out for
the benefit of his students. He welcomed my application with the

Igreatest cordiality, save that he insisted should be only an honorary
student, or rather, should assist at his lectures as a friend. I availed

myself of his permission on the very next day, and subsequently

attended almost all his lectures there and elsewhere, so that he one
"Iday said to me,  shall call you my 'constant reader.'" To be
Isuch a reader was to me an inestimable privilege, and so shall
Iever consider it. I have heard many men lecture, but
                                                                 never

heard anyone lecture as did Professor Huxley. He was my very

ideal of a lecturer. Distinct in utterance, with an agreeable voice,

lucid as it was possible to be in exposition, with admirably chosen

language, sufficiently rapid, yet never hurried, often impressive in

manner, yet never otherwise than completely natural, and sometimes

allowing his audience a glimpse of that rich fund of humour ever

ready to well forth when occasion permitted, sometimes accompanied

with an extra gleam in his bright dark eyes, sometimes expressed

with a dryness and gravity of look which gave it a double zest.

414              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                           CHAP.

    II shall never forget the first time saw him enter his lecture-

room. He came in rapidly, yet without bustle, and as the clock

struck, a brief glance at his audience and then at once to work.
He had the excellent habit of beginning each lecture (save, of
course, the first) with a recapitulation of the main points of the

Ipreceding one. The course was amply illustrated by excellent

coloured diagrams, which, believe, he had made ; but still more

valuable were the chalk sketches he would draw on the blackboard

with admirable facility, while he was talking, his rapid, dexterous

strokes quickly building up an organism in our minds, simultaneously

Ithrough ear and eye.      The lecture over, he was ever ready to
                           often admired his patience in explaining
answer questions, and

Ipoints which there was no excuse for anyone not having understood.
     Still more was        struck with the great pleasure which he

showed when he saw that some special points of his teaching had

not only been comprehended, but had borne fruit, by their

Isuggestiveness in an appreciative mind.
     To one point          desire specially to bear witness.        There were

persons who dreaded sending young men to him, fearing lest their

Iyoung friends' religious beliefs should be upset by what they might
hear said. For years attended his lectures, but never once did I
hear him make use of his position as a teacher to inculcate, or even

hint at, his own theological views, or to depreciate or assail what
might be supposed to be the religion of his hearers. No one could

have behaved more loyally in that respect, and a proof that I thought
Iso is that subsequently sent my own son to be his pupil at South

Kensington, where his experience confirmed what had previously

Ibeen my own.              learnt more from him in two years than I had
      As to science,
acquired in any previous decade of biological study.

      The picture is completed by Professor Howes in the

Students' Magazine of the Royal College of Science :--

      As a class lecturer Huxley was facile princeps, and only those
who were privileged to sit under him can form a conception of his

delivery.  Clear, deliberate, never hesitant nor unduly emphatic,

never repetitional, always logical, his every word told. Great,

however,     as  were his   class lectures,  h"is   working-men's   awsceernesugmrea"teor.f
Huxley     was    a firm   believer in the         distillatio per

scientific knowledge and culture, and spared no pains in approaching
                                    hic"slaMwsasreintsi'n.s"gsP,laHacneedignoafvNehaistthu"ereCw,r"aoyrokfnimeshe,on"f
the artisan and so-called "working
of his best. The substance of his
the most successful and popular of

perhaps the most perfect zoological treatise ever published, was first
Icommunicated to them. In one of the last conversations
                                                                    had
Iwith him, asked his views on the desirability of discontinuing the

XXIV AS A LECTURER

workmen's lectures at Jermyn Street, since the development of

working-men's colleges and institutes is regarded by some to have
                                                                             He replied,
rinenddigenreadtiont,he"irWcitohntionuurancecnetraulnnesciteusasatiroyn.                  almost with
                                                                          and resources,  we ought to

be in a position to give the workmen that which they cannot get

elsewhere," adding that he would deeply deplore any such dis

continuance.

And now, a word or two concerning Huxley's personal conduct

towards his pupils, hearers, and subordinates.

      As an examiner he was most just, aiming only to ascertain the
examinee's knowledge of fundamentals, his powers of work, and the

manner in which he had been taught. A country school lad came

near the boundary line in the examination ; though generally weak,
his worst fault was a confusion of the parts of the heart. In his

of that organ he had transposed                                            the valves. On
 him through, observing, most                                             characteristically,
I Idescription                                                                                                              a"ppPeoaol,r

Huxley let
little beggar, never got them correctly myself until reflected

that a bishop was never              in   the right." 1 Again,               a student         of more
advanced years, of the               "   mugging '" type, who                had come          off with

flying colours   in an elementary examination,                            "  showed       signs of un
easiness as the  advanced one approached.                                    Stick an      observation
into him," said Huxley. It was stuck, and acted like a stiletto, a

jump into the air and utter collapse being the result.                                    He always
      With his hearers Huxley was most sympathetic.

assumed absolute ignorance on their part, and took nothing for

granted.f When time permitted, he would remain after a lecture

to answer questions ; and in connection with his so doing his

wonderful power of gauging and rising to a situation, once came
                                               student, he asked, " Well, hope
                                                but one part, during which you
Iout

you
most forcibly.              Turning to    a
understand it              all." " All,  sir,

Isjotoinodder,be"tweednid  me  and    the blackboard," was the reply : the re
                           my  best  to make myself clear, but could not render

myself transparent." Quick of comprehension and of action, he
would stand no nonsense. The would-be teacher who, wholly un

fitted by nature for educational work, was momentarily dismissed,
realised this, let us hope to his advantage. And the man suspected
of taking notes of Huxley's lectures for publication unauthorised,

probably learned the lesson of his life, on being reminded that, in
the first place, a lecture was the property of the person who delivered

and, in the second, he was not the first person who had mistaken
it,

                      2
                           1a

                                              a
                                                    a
                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                        a
aspiration for inspiration.

Though candid, Huxley was never unkind. . .

Huxley never forgot                      kindly action, never forsook friend,

nor allowed labour to go unrewarded.                                         In testimony to his

                     The " mitral " valve being on the left side.
              This was maxim on lecturing, adopted from Faraday.

4i6              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                      chap.

sympathy to those about him and his self-sacrifice for the cause of

science, it may be stated that in the old days, when the professors
took the fees and disbursed the working expenses of the labora
tories, he, doing this at a loss, would refund the fees of students
whose position, from friendship or special circumstances, was ex

ceptional.

     As for his lectures and addresses to the public, they
used to be thronged by crowds of attentive listeners.

     Huxley's public addresses (writes Professor Osborn), always gave
     :th"e  impression of           being largely impromptu ;    but he once                   told
me                                                               am going to                   say.
me          I always think          out carefully every word I

There is no greater danger than the so-called inspiration of the
moment, which leads you to say something which is not exactly

true, or which you would regret afterwards."

      Mr. G. W. Smalley has also left a striking description
of him as a lecturer in the seventies and early eighties.

     I used always to admire the simple and business-like way in
                                                                                  He hated any
which Huxley made his entry on great occasions.                                    At the Royal
thing like display, and would have none of
                                                  in
                                                                             it.
Institution, more than almost anywhere else, the lecturer, on whom

the concentric circles of spectators                  their steep amphitheatre look

down, focuses the gaze. Huxley never seemed aware that anybody

was looking at him. From self-consciousness he was, here as else
where, singularly free, as from self-assertion. He walked in through
                                                                                               In
the door on the left, as he were entering his own laboratory.
                                    if
                                                  mark of age. He was in the full
                                               a
these days he bore scarcely

vigour      --of thme anruhleoodin  and   looked the man     ishe was.                         cFoasutultmleess--ly
dressed                              the  Royal Institution        evening

with firm step and easy bearing, he took his place apparently
it
           a

              a
without thought of the people who were cheering him. To him
                                          He looked, and he probably was, the
     was an anniversary.                              the celebrities of science and

master. Surrounded as he was                      by

the ornaments of London drawing-rooms, there was none who had

quite the same kind of intellectual ascendancy which belonged to
him. The square forehead, the square jaw, the tense lines of the
mouth, the deep flashing dark eyes, the impression of something
more than strength he gave you, an impression of sincerity, of solid

force,      of immovability,        yet   swtriethngthth--e aglel nttlheinsesbseloanrgiseidng    from the
serene      consciousness of        his                                                        to Huxley

and to him alone. The first glance magnetised his audience. The

eyes were those of one accustomed to command, of one having

authority, and not fearing on occasion to use it. The hair swept

XXIV HIS METHOD OF WORK                                                                   417

carelessly away from the broad forehead and grew rather long

behind, yet the length            deivdernyothtinsgug--geslot,oka,s  it often  does, effeminacy.
He was masculine in                                                  gesture,  speech. Sparing

of gesture, sparing of emphasis, careless of mere rhetorical or

oratorical art, he had nevertheless             theelses--ecrheet    of the highest   art of
all, whether in oratory or whatever                                  had simplicity.    The

force was in the thought and the diction, and he needed no other.

The voice was rather deep, low, but quite audible, at times sonorous,

and always full.         He       used    the   chreastth-enrotelsim. itedHisaumdieanncneer--hfoerre,thien
the presence of                   select   and
                         this     Institution holds, I think, less than a thousand

tpheeoaptrlee--ofwtahse   Royal   the same as before a great company whom he
                         exactly

addressed at (Liverpool), as President of the British Association for

the Advancement of Science. I remember going late to that, and

having to sit far back, yet hearing every word easily ; and there too

the feeling was the same, that he had mastered his audience, taken

possession of them, and held them to the end in an unrelaxing

grip, as a great actor at his best does. There was nothing of the

actor about him, except that he knew how to stand still, but master

ful he ever was.

Up to the time of his last illness, he regularly break

fasted at eight, and avoided, as far as possible, going out to
that meal, a " detestable habit " as he called
                                                                               which put
                                                    I
him off for the whole day. He left the house about nine,
                                                        if
and from that time till midnight at earliest was incessantly            it,

busy. His regular lectures involved an immensity of labour,                            2

for he would never make a statement in them which he                        EI

had not personally verified by experiment. In the Jermyn

Street days he habitually made preparations to illustrate the

points on which he was lecturing, for his students had no

laboratory in which to work out the things for themselves.

His lectures to working-men also involved as much careful

preparation as the more conspicuous discourses at the Royal

Institution.

      This thoroughness              of preparation had no less effect on

the teacher than on                  the taught.                     He writes to an old

pupil --
It
     :

     is
             pleasant when the " bread cast upon the water " returns
after many days and the crumbs given in my lectures have had
anything to do with the success on which congratulate you, am
                         ;

                                 if

very glad.I                               lectures  that             nobody else learned
         used to say of my own

     VOL. II

418  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap.

Ianything from them, I did ; because always took a great deal of

pains over them. But it is none the less satisfactory to find that

there were other learners.

      As for the ordinary course of a day's work, the more
fitful energy and useless mornings of the earliest period in
London were soon left behind. He was never one of those

portentously early risers who do a fair day's work before
other people are up ; there was only one period, about
1873, when he had to be specially careful of his health,
and, under Sir Andrew Clark's regime, took riding exercise
for an hour each day before starting for South Kensington,
that he records the fact of doing any work before breakfast,

and that was letter-writing.
      Much of the day during the session, and still more when

his lectures were over, would thus be spent in original
research, or in the examination and description of fossils in
his official duty as Paleontologist to the Survey. As often
as not, there would be a sitting of some Royal Commission
to attend ; committees of some learned society ; meetings

or dinners in the evening ; if not, there would be an article
to write or proofs to correct. Indeed, the greater part of

the work by which the world knows him best was done after
dinner, and after a long day's work in the lecture-room and

laboratory.
      He possessed a wonderful faculty for tearing out the

heart of a book, reading it through at a gallop, but knowing
what it said on all the points that interested him. Of
verbal memory he had very little ; in spite of all his reading

I do not believe he knew half a dozen consecutive lines of

poetry by heart. What he did know was the substance of
what an author had written ; how it fitted into his own
scheme of knowledge ; and where to find any point again

when he wished to cite it.

      In his biological studies his immense knowledge was firmly

fixed in his mind by practical investigation ; as is said above,

he would take at second hand nothing for which he vouched

in his teaching, and was always ready to repeat for him
self the experiments of others, which determined questions of
interest to him. The citations, analyses, maps, with which
he frequently accompanied his reading, were all part of the

XXIV LOVE OF ART                                                                 419

same method of acquiring facts and setting them in order

within his mind. So careful, indeed, was he in giving

nothing at second hand, that one of his scientific friends

reproached him with wasting his time upon unnecessary

scientific work, to which competent investigators had already
given the stamp of their authority. " Poor                                       ," was his
                         " if that is
comment     afterwards,                his own                    wparasctoicme,nivhoisrouwso--rk
will never  live." On    the literary  side, he

consuming everything, as Mr. Spencer put from fairy tales
                                                                  a it,
to the last volume on metaphysics.                                            a

   Unlike Darwin, to whom scientific research was at length

the only thing engrossing enough to make him oblivious of

his never-ending ill-health, to the gradual exclusion of other

interests, literary and artistic, Huxley never lost his delight

in literature or in art. He had keen eye for picture or
              ;:
a piece of sculpture, for, in addition to the draughtsman's
                   aa
and anatomist's sense of form, he had                                strong sense of
                            a;
colour. To good music he was always susceptible.* He
                             a; ;
played no instrument as young man, however, he used toa

sing a little, but his voice, though true, was never strong.   ;

But he had small leisure to devote to art. On his holidaysa
                                                          a
he would sometimes sketch with firm and rapid touch.

His illustrations to the Cruise of the Rattlesnake show what
his untrained capacities were. But to go to concert or
                                                                     a

opera was rare after middle life to go to the theatre rarer

still, much as he appreciated a good play. His time was

too deeply mortgaged and in later life, the deafness which

grew upon him added new difficulty.

   In poetry he was sensitive both to matter and form.

One school of modern poetry he dismissed as "sensuous
caterwauling "
                busy man, time and patience failed him

to wade through the trivial discursiveness of so much of

Wordsworth's verse thus unfortunately he never realised

the full value of poet in whom the mass of ore bears so

large a proportion to the pure metal. Shelley was too

diffuse to be among his first favourites but for simple
                                                                  ;

beauty, Keats for that, and for the comprehension of the

        To one breaking in upon him at certain afternoon hours in his room at1
South Kensington, "a whiff of the pipe" (writes Professor Howes), "and a snatch
of some choice melody or Bach's fugue, were the not infrequent welcome."

420  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                           chap.

meaning of modern science, Tennyson ; for strength and

feeling, Browning as represented by his earlier poems.
These were the favourites among the moderns. He knew
his eighteenth-century classics, but knew better his Milton

and his Shakespeare, to whom he turned with ever-increasing

satisfaction, as men do who have lived a full life.

      His early acquaintance with German had given him a
lasting admiration of the greatest representatives of German

literature, Goethe above all, in whose writings he found a

moral grandeur to be ranked with that of the Hebrew

prophets. Eager to read Dante in the original, he spent much
of his leisure on board the Rattlesnake in making out the
Italian with the aid of a dictionary, and in this way came to

know the beauties of the Divina Commedia. On the other

hand, it was a scientific interest which led him in later life

to take up his Greek, though one use he put it to was to

read Homer in the original.

     Though he was a great novel-reader, and, as he grew

older, would always have a novel ready to take up for a

while in the evening, his chief reading, in German and

French as well as English, was philosophy and history.

     His recreations were, as a rule, literary, and consisted in
                                The only times I can
a change of mental occupation.

remember his playing an outdoor game are in the late

sixties, when he started his elder children at cricket on the

common at Littlehampton, and in 1871 when he played
golf at St. Andrews. When first married, he promised his

wife to reserve Saturday afternoons for recreation, and

constantly went with her to the Ella concerts. She persuaded

him also to take exercise by playing fives with Mr. Herbert

Spencer ; but the pressure of work before long absorbed all
his time. In his youth he was extremely fond of chess, and

played eagerly with his fellow-students at Charing Cross

Hospital or with his messmates on the Rattlesnake. But

after he taught me the game, somewhere about 1 869 or

1870, I do not think he ever found time for it again.

      His principal exercise was walking during the holidays.

In his earlier days especially, when overwrought by the
stress of his life in London, he used to go off with a friend

for a week's walking tour in Wales or the Lakes, in Brittany

XXIV SUNDA Y EVENING GATHERINGS                                   431

or the Eifel country, or in summer for a longer trip to
Switzerland. In this way he " burnt up the waste products,"

as he would say, of his town life, and came back fresh for a
new spell of unintermittent work.

    But, on the whole, the amount of exercise he took was

insufficient for his bodily needs. Even the riding pre

scribed for him when he first broke down, became irksome,

and was not continued very long, although his bodily

machine was such as could only be kept in perfect working
order by more exercise than he would give. His physique

was not adapted to burn up the waste without special

stimulus. I remember once, as he and I were walking up

Beachy Head, we passed a man with a splendid big chest.

" Ah," said my father regretfully, " if I had only had a chest
like that, what a lot of work I could have done."

    When, in 1872, he built his new house in Marlborough

Place, my father bargained for two points ; one, that each
member of the family should have a corner of his or her

own, where, as he used to say, it would be possible to
" consume                     "
           their  own  smoke        the other, that the common
                                 ;

living-rooms should be of ample size. Thus from 1874
onwards he was enabled to see something of his many

friends who would come as far as St. John's Wood on a
Sunday evening. No formal invitation for a special day

was needed. The guests came, sometimes more, sometimes

fewer, as on any ordinary at-home day. There was a simple

informal meal at 6.30  or 7   o'hcilgohck,tewah--ichwacsa,lleidn  itself by no
more dignified name    than                                       fact, a cold

supper with varying possibilities in the direction of dinner or

tea. It was a chance medley of old and young --friends of

the parents and friends of the children, but all ultimately

centring round the host himself, whose end of the table

never flagged for conversation, grave or gay.

on  Afterwards talk would go on in  the drawing-room, or,
    warm summer evenings, in the
                                    garden -- nothing very

extensive, but boasting a lawn with an old apple-tree at the

further end, and in the borders such flowers and trees as

endure London air. Later on, there was almost sure to be

some music, to which my father himself was devoted. His

daughters sang ; a musical friend would be there ; Mr.

42-            LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                        CHAP.

Herbert Spencer, a frequent visitor, was an authority on

music. Once only do I recollect any other form of enter

tainment, and that was an occasion when Sir Henry Irving,

then not long established at the Lyceum, was present and
recited " Eugene Aram " with great effect.

      In his London Letters        Mr. G. W. Smalley 1 has recorded
                                   evenings, at which he was often
phriseseimntpr:e--ssions of these

      There used to be Sunday evening dinners and parties in Marl
borough Place, to which people from many other worlds than those
of abstract science were bidden ; where talk was to be heard of a

kind rare in any world. It was scientific at times, but subdued to

the necessities of the occasion ; speculative, yet kept within such

bounds that bishop or archbishop might have listened without

offence ; political even, and still not commonplace ; literary without

pretence, and when artistic, free from affectation.
     There and elsewhere Mr. Huxley easily took the lead if he cared
to, or if challenged. Nobody was more ready in a greater variety of
topics, and if they were scientific it was almost always another who

introduced them. Unlike some of his comrades of the Royal

Society, he was of opinion that man does not live by science alone,
                                   him. All
and  nothing   came amiss to                  hbiestwliefeenlonscgiehnecehaasnbde--ennoint
the  front of  the battle that     has raged

religion, but theology in its more dogmatic form. Even in private
the alarm of war is sometimes heard, and Mr. Huxley is not a whit

less formidable as a disputant across the table than with pen in

hand. Yet an angry man must be very angry indeed before he

could be angry with this adversary. He disarmed his enemies
with an amiable grace that made defeat endurable if not entirely

delightful.

     As for his method of handling scientific        subjects  in

conversation :--

      He has the same quality, the same luminous style of exposi
tion, with which his printed books have made all readers in America
and England familiar. Yet it has more than that. You cannot
listen to him without thinking more of the speaker than of his

science, more of the solid beautiful nature than of the intellectual
gifts, more of his manly simplicity and sincerity than of all his

knowledge and his long services.

     But his personality left the deepest impression, perhaps,

      1 Another interesting account from the same pen is to be found in the article

"Mr. Huxley," Scritner's Magazine, October 1S95.

XXIV PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS                                       423

upon those who studied under him and worked with him

longest, before taking their place elsewhere in the front
ranks of biological science.

      With him (Professor A. Hubrecht 1 writes), we his younger dis
ciples, always felt that in acute criticism and vast learning nobody
surpassed him, but still what we yet more admired than his learn

ing was his wisdom. It was always a delight to read any new

article or essay from his pen, but it was an ever so much higher
delight to hear him talk for five minutes. His was the most beauti

ful and the most manly intellect I ever knew of.

      So, too, Professor E. Ray Lankester : --

    I IThere has been no man or woman whom I have met on my

journey through life, whom have loved and regarded as have him,

Iand feel that the world has shrunk and become a poor thing,

now that his splendid spirit and delightful presence are gone from

Iit. Ever since was a little boy he has been my ideal and hero.

      While the late Jeffery Parker concludes his Recollections

with these words :--

    IWhether a professor is usually a hero to his demonstrator can
Inot say ; only know that, looking back across an interval of many
years and a distance of half the circumference of the globe, I have

never ceased to be impressed with the manliness and sincerity of
his character, his complete honesty of purpose, his high moral
standard, his scorn of everything mean or shifty, his firm determina
tion to speak what he held to be truth at whatever cost of popularity.

IAnd for these things " loved the man, and do honour to his

memory, on this side idolatry, as much as any."

      Even those who scarcely knew him apart from his books,
underwent the influence of that " determination to speak

what he held to be truth." I may perhaps be allowed to
                                                                myself --
quote in illustration two  passages from            letters to
one written by a woman,    the other by a
                                                    man :--

" ' The surest-footed guide ' is exactly true, to my feeling.

Everybody else, among the great, used to disappoint one some
        He -- never    "
where.
                      !
" He was so splendidly brave that one can never repay one's

debt to him for his example. He made all pretence about religious

belief, and the kind of half-thinking things out, and putting up in

a slovenly way with half-formed conclusions, seem the base thing

which it really is."

                          1 Of Utrecht University.

               CHAPTER XXV

                               1895

I have often regretted that I did not regularly take notes of

my father's conversation, which was striking, not so much for
               of it-- though
the manner                     that was at once copious and  crisp
                strength and   substance of what he said.      Yet
-- as for the

the striking fact, the bit of philosophy, the closely knitted

argument, were perfectly unstudied, and as in other most
interesting talkers, dropped into the flow of conversation as
naturally as would the more ordinary experiences of less

richly stored minds.

     However, in January 1895 I was staying at Eastbourne,
and jotted down several fragments of talk as nearly as I

could recollect them. Conversation not immediately noted
down I hardly dare venture upon, save perhaps such an
unforgettable phrase as this, which I
                                            remember his using
one day as we walked on the hills near
                                            Great Hampden :--
" It is one of the most saddening things in life that, try

as we may, we can never be certain of making people happy,

whereas we can almost always be certain of making them

unhappy."      1 6. -- At  lunch he  spoke  of Dr.  Louis Robinson's
     January

experiments upon simian characteristics in new-born children.

He himself had called attention before to the incurved feet

of infants, but the power of hanging by the hands was a new

and important discovery.1

    I1 Professor H. F. Osborn tells this story of his :-- " When a fond mother

calls upon me to admire her baby, never fail to respond ; and while cooing

appropriately. I take advantage of an opportunity to gently ascertain whether

the soles of its feet turn in, and tend to support my theory of arboreal descent."

CHAP. XXV                    TABLE-TALK                                                  4*5

         He expressed his disgust with a certain member of the

Psychical Research Society for his attitude towards spiritual
ism : " He doesn't believe in
                                                                                the cover of his
                 is                                  yet lends
                       it

                                                 it,
                                                                 it

                                                                                                                  '

                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                                 '
name. He one of the people who talk of the possibility

of the thing, who think the difficulties of disproving thing

as good as direct evidence in its favour."
      He thought hard to be attacked for " the contempt of

the man of science " when he was dragged into debate by

Mr. Andrew Lang's Common Sense and the Cock Lane Ghost,
he saying in very polite letter " am content to leave
                 a                                   :               I

Mr. Lang the Cock Lane GhostI                                        if   may keep common
                                                                       I
                             I
sense." " After all," he added, " when            :                       a     man has been

through life and made his judgments, he must have come

to decision that there are some subjects                                        it       not worth
'                                                                                    is

      awhile going into."
       January 18. -- referred to an article in the last Nine
teenth Century, and he said -- " As soon as saw
                                                                     it                  wrote,
                                                                         is

                                                                                I

                                                                                        I iIt,
                                                                                                                      a
Knowles, my friend, you don't draw me this time. If

man      goes    on attributing                    s--tatgemiveinngts    to me  which have
shown      over   and over again                                       chapter
                                                                                and verse -- to

be the contrary of what did say,                                          no good saying any

more.'"

       But would not this course of silence leave the mass of

the British public believing the statements of the writer
     " The mass of the public will believe in ten years pre

cisely the opposite of what they believe now. If man
not fool, does him no harm to be believed one. If he
                                                                                         a

                                                                                                      ?

                                                                                                       is

really"a         fool, does matter. There never was book so
          is
               a

                 it
                    it

                         it
derided and scoffed at as my first book, Man's Place in

Nature, but      was true, and                       don't know was any the
                             ;                                               I
worse for the ridicule.
                                    it I I                                         a

                                                  it
         People call me fond of controversy, but, as fact, for the

last twenty years at all events, have never entered upon a
controversy without some further purpose in view. As to

Gladstone and his Impregnable Rock, wasn't worth attack

ing them for themselves but was most important at that

moment to shake him in the minds of sensible men.
     " The movement of modern philosophy back towards
                                                                             I is
the position of the old Ionian philosophers, but strengthened

and clarified by sound scientific ideas. If publish my

426          LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY            chap.

criticism on Comte, I should have to re-write it as a sum

mary of philosophical ideas from the earliest times. The
thread of philosophical development is not on the lines

usually laid down for it. It goes from Democritus and the

rest to the Epicureans, and then the Stoics, who tried to

reconcile it with popular theological ideas, just as was
done by the Christian Fathers. In the Middle Ages it was

entirely lost under the theological theories of the time ;

but reappeared with Spinoza, who, however, muddled it
up with a lot of metaphysics which made him almost

unintelligible.
     " Plato was the founder of all the vague and unsound

thinking that has burdened philosophy, deserting facts for
possibilities, and then, after long and beautiful stories of

what might be, telling you he doesn't quite believe them

himself.

     " A certain time since it was heresy to breathe a word
against Plato ; but I have a nice story of Sir Henry Holland.

He used to have all the rising young men to breakfast, and
turn out their latest ideas. One morning I went to break

fast with him, and we got into very intimate conversation,
when he wound up by saying, ' In my opinion Plato was

an ass ! But don't tell any one I said so.'"

     We talked on geographical teaching ; he began by

insisting on the need of a map of the earth (on the true
scale) showing the insignificance of all elevations and de
pressions on the surface. Secondly, one should take any
place as centre, and draw about it circles of 50 or 100
miles radius, and see what lies within them ; and note the
extent of the influence exerted by the central point. At

the same time, one should always compare the British Isles

to scale. For instance, the yEgean is about as big as

Britain ; while the smallness of Judaea is remarkable. After
the Exile, the Jewish part was about as big as the county of
             How few boys realise this, though they are
Gloucester.

taught classical geography.                      One of the
      " The real chosen people were the Greeks.

most remarkable things about them is not only the smallness,

but the late rise of Attica, whereas Magna Graecia flourished

in the eighth century. The Greeks were doing everything

XXV                    TABLE-TALK                                                427

--piracy, trade, fighting, expelling the Persians. Never was

there so large a number of self-governing communities.
      " They fell short of the Jews in morality. How curious

is the tolerant attitude of Socrates, like a modern man of

the world talking to a young fellow who runs after the girls.
The Jew, however he fell short in other respects, set himself a
certain standard in cleanliness of life, and would not fall below

it. The more creditable to him, because these vices were the

offspring of the Semitic races among whom the Jew lived.
     " There is a curious similarity between the position of the

Jews in ancient times and what it is now. They were pro
curers and usurers among the Gentiles, yet many of them
were singularly high-minded and pure. All too with an
intense clannishness, the secret of their success, and a sense

of superiority to the Gentile which would prevent the

meanest Jew from sitting at table with a proconsul.
     "The most remarkable achievement of the Jew was to
impose on Europe for eighteen centuries his own supersti
tions -- his ideas of the supernatural.
                                                             Jahveh was no more
                                                                       the belief
than Zeus or Milcom ;   yet  BthibeleJewandgothisestLaabwlis.hedIf
in the inspiration of  his                                              I were a
Jew, I should have the same contempt as he has for the

Christian who acted in this way towards me, who took my

ideasJananudarysco2rn1e.--d Ymeestfeorrdacylingeivnegnintgo  them."    declared  that
                                                             he again

it was very hard for a man of peace like himself to have

been dragged into so many controversies. " I declare that
for the last twenty years I have never attacked, but always

fought in self-defence, counting Darwin, of course, as part of

myself, for dear Darwin never could nor would defend him
self. Before that, I admit I attacked                        , but I could not
trust the man." A pause. " No, there was one other case,

when I attacked without being directly assailed, and that
was Gladstone. But it was good for other reasons. It has

always astonished me how a man after fifty or sixty years

of life among men could be so ignorant of the best way to
Ifhandle his materials.
                             he had only read Dana, he would

have found his case much better stated than ever he stated

it. He seemed never to have read the leading authorities

on his own side."

428        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                               chap.

     Speaking of the hesitation shown by the Senate of

London University in grappling with a threatened obstacle

to reform, he remarked : " It is very strange how most men

will do anything to evade responsibility."

    January 23. -- At dinner the talk turned on plays.
       gHrt.ehaotAue.gsthJow"nrteihtseerresh--amd buessttewnebteenhsimotmheeJudhdraoamsht,ialittiwych--aicnhedxchtheeepttlhitioneuragthrhyet
Mr.
good,
very

faculties. I noticed many points I objected to, but felt sure
                               Indeed in the theatre I have
they met with applause.
noticed that what I thought the worst blots on a piece

invariably brought down the house."

     He remarked how the French, in dramatic just as in

artistic matters, are so much better than the English in

composition, in avoiding anything slipshod in the details,

though the English artists draw just as well and colour

perhaps better.

     The following sketch of human character is not actually

a fragment of conversation, though it might         almost pass for
                                                    K. Cilfford, of
such ; it  comes from a  letter       to  Mrs.  W.
February
           10, 1895: --

      Men, my dear, are very   queer   animals, a   mixture  of  horse-
nervousness, ass-stubbornness   and   camel-malice                angel
                                                    -- with  an

bobbing about unexpectedly like the apple in the posset, and when

they can do exactly as they please, they are very hard to drive.

      Whatever he talked of, his talk never failed to impress

those who conversed with him. One or two such impressions
have been recorded. Mr. Wilfrid Ward, whose interests lie

chiefly in philosophy and theology, was his neighbour at
Eastbourne, and in the Nineteenth Century for August 1 896
has given various reminiscences of their friendly intercourse.

    IHis conversation (he writes) was singularly finished, and (if

may so express it), clean cut ; never long-winded or prosy ; en
livened by vivid illustrations. He was an excellent raconteur, and

his stories had a stamp of their own which would have made them

always and everywhere acceptable.         His sense of humour and

economy of words would have made it impossible, had he lived to

wnihnaetty,hatshabteetnheycalslehdou"ldaneevcedrohtaagvee." been disparaged as symptoms of

XXV TABLE-TALK                                          4=9

      One drawback to conversation, however, he began to
complain of during the later seventies.

     It is a great misfortune (he remarked to Professor Osborn) to be

Ideaf in only one ear. Every time dine out the lady sitting by my
I Igood ear thinks am charming, but make a mortal enemy of the

lady on my deaf side.

      In ordinary conversation he never plunged at once
into deep subjects. His welcome to the new-comer was

always of the simplest and most unstudied. He had no
mannerisms nor affectation of phrase. He would begin at

once to talk on everyday topics ; an intimate friend he would
perhaps rally upon some standing subject of persiflage. But
the subsequent course of conversation adapted itself to his

company. Deeper subjects were reached soon enough by

those who cared for them ; with others he was quite happy
to talk of politics or people or his garden, yet, whatever

he touched, never failing to infuse into it an unexpected

interest.

      In this connection, a typical story was told me by a
great friend of mine, whom we had come to know through
his marriage with an early friend of the family. " Going to
call at Hodeslea," he said, " I was in some trepidation,
because I didn't know anything about science or philo

sophy ; but when your mother began to talk over old

times with my wife, your father came across the room and

sat down by me, and began to talk about the dog which we
had brought with us. From that he got on to the different
races of dogs and their origin and connections, all quite
simply, and not as though to give information, but just to
talk about something which obviously interested me. I

shall never forget how extraordinarily kind it was of your
father to take all this trouble in entertaining a complete
stranger, and choosing a subject which put me at my ease at
once, while he told me all manner of new and interesting

things."
A few more fragments of his conversation
preserved -- the following                              have been
                             by     Mr. Wilfrid  Ward.   Speaking
of Tennyson's conversation,     he
                                     said :--

Doric beauty is its characteristic -- perfect simplicity, without

any ornament or anything artificial.

45^               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                              chap.

     Telling how he had been to a meeting of the British

Museum Trustees, he said :--

     After the meeting, Archbishop Benson helped me on with my
                  I was                          thsaisid,sp"ecIiesfeeol fasspiirfitualweirne

                  Thank
I Igreat -coat.

vestiture.
               "          quite overcome by
                         you, Archbishop,"

receiving the pallium."

      Speaking    of  two men       of letters,  with  neither of whom  he
sympathised,          once said
                  he                :--

     Don't mistake me. One is a thinker and man of letters, the
other is only a literary man. Erasmus was a man of letters,

Gigadibs a literary man. A.B. is the incarnation of Gigadibs. I

should call him Gigadibsius Optimus Maximus.

     Another time, referring to Dean Stanley's historical

impressionability,     as  militating  against         his  sympathies with
Colenso, he said
                      :--

     Stanley could believe in anything of which he had seen the
supposed site, but was sceptical where he had not seen. At a
Ibreakfast at Monckton Milnes's, just at the time of the Colenso
row, Milnes asked me my views on the Pentateuch, and                    gave

them. Stanley differed from me. The account of Creation in

Genesis he dismissed at once as unhistorical ; but the call of
                      hheisthoardicasel ennarrPaatilveestionfet--hebPuetnthaeteuwcahs,n'theparecsceenptteda. t
Abraham,   and the
This was  because

the Creation.

     When he and Stanley met, there was sure to be a brisk

interchange of repartee. One of these occasions, a ballot

night   atH.thFelowAethren:--aeum,  has been recorded        by the late
Sir W.

     A well-known popular preacher of the Scotch Presbyterian

Church, who had made himself famous by predictions of the

speedy coming of the end of the world, was up for election. I was

standing by Huxley when    the"     Dean,   coming straight  from  the  ballot
boxes, turned towards us.           Well,"  said Huxley, "   have  you   been
voting for C. ? " " Yes, indeed I have," replied the Dean. " Oh,
I thought the priests were always opposed to the prophets," said
Huxley. " Ah ! " replied the Dean, with that well-known twinkle
Iin his eye, and the sweetest of smiles, "but you see,
                                                                   do not
Ibelieve in his prophecies, and some people say am not much

of a priest."

XXV HOME LIFE 43 1

A few words as to his home life may perhaps be fitly

introduced here. Towards his children he had the same

union of underlying tenderness veiled beneath inflexible de

termination for what was right, which marked his intercourse

with those outside his family.

As children we were fully conscious of this side of his

character. We felt our little hypocrisies shrivel up before

him ; we felt a confidence in the infallible rectitude of his
moral judgments which inspired a kind of awe. His arbitra

ment was instant and final, though rarely invoked, and was

perhaps the more tremendous in proportion to its rarity.

This aspect, as if of an oracle without appeal, was heightened
in our minds by the fact that we saw but little of him. This

was one of the penalties of his hard-driven existence. In

the struggle to keep his head above water for the first fifteen
or twenty years of his married life, he had scarcely any time
to devote to his children. The " lodger," as he used to call

himself at one time, who went out early and came back late,

could sometimes spare half an hour just before or after dinner

to draw wonderful pictures for the little ones, and these were

memorable occasions. I remember that he used to profess
a horror of being too closely watched, or of receiving sugges
tions, while he drew. " Take care, take care," he would
exclaim, " or I don't know what it will turn into."

    When I was seven years old I had the misfortune to be

laid up  inswoilttahhceesfctaaomrlemiltye.--fevweTerh,reeansvdoelritythaerlonyndgh,aisyasn--gdiftfIorolofIodkwreaadswitfnhogerwfwairarsdst

a great
victim

with intense interest to one half-hour after dinner, when he

would come up and draw scenes from the history of a re

markable bull-terrier and his family that went to the sea

side in a most human and child-delighting manner. I have

seldom suffered a greater disappointment than when, one

evening, I fell asleep just before this fairy half-hour, and lost

it out of my life.

In those days he often used to take the three eldest of

us out for a walk on Sunday afternoons, sometimes to the

Zoological Gardens, more often to the lanes and fields be

tween St. John's Wood and Hampstead or West End. For
then the flood of bricks and mortar ceased on the Finchley

432                        LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                                                          chap.

Road just beyond the Swiss Cottage, and the West End

Lane, winding solitary between its high hedges and rural

ditches, was quite like a country road in holiday time, and

was sometimes gladdened in June with real dog-roses, although
the church and a few houses had already begun to encroach
on the open fields at the end of the Abbey Road.

     My father often used to delight us with sea stories and

tales of animals, and occasionally with geological sketches

"susghgoepste" dhebywotuheld     gravels of Hampstead Heath.                                                                 But regular
                                  not talk to us, contrary to the                                                            expectation

of people who have often asked me whether we did not

receive quite a scientific training from his companionship.

     At the Christmas dinner he invariably delighted the

children by carving wonderful beasts, generally pigs, out of
orange peel. When the marriage of his eldest daughter had
taken her away from this important function, she was sent

the best specimen as a reminder.

                                  4 Marlborough Place,

                                           Dec. 25, 1878.

     Dearest Jess --We have just finished the mid-day Christmas
Isdtiaionynne^orEf, tnatahtiecw--phuicdahnddinfgunwchtaiasovnehigynoheulvyewrseurcyeceetsbsaafudtltlya--inweiandntefasdco.t    The inflamma
                                                                                                                             Vesuvian not to
                                                                                                                             high a pitch in

Ipiggygenesis as on this occasion.

     The specimen enclose, wrapped in a golden cerecloth, and with

the remains of his last dinner in the proper region, will prove to

Iyou the  heights          ato"  which the creative power of the true                                                        artist may
           call it               Piggurne, or a Harmony in Orange and                                                         White."
soar.

     PreserveI             my dear child, as evidence of the paternal genius,

                      it,
when those light and fugitive productions which are buried in the

philosophical transactions and elsewhere are forgotten.

     My best wishes to Fred and you, and may you succeed better
than do in keeping warm. -- Ever your loving father,

                                  T. H. Huxley.

      Later on, however, the younger children who kept up
the home at Marlborough Place after the elder ones had
married or gone out into the world, enjoyed more oppor
tunities of his ever- mellowing companionship. Strongly as
he upheld the conventions when these represented some valid
results of social experience, he was always ready to set aside

XXV HOME LIFE 433

his mere likes and dislikes on good cause shown ; to follow
reason as against the mere prejudice of custom, even his own.

      Severe he might be on occasion, but never harsh. His

idea in bringing up his children was to accustom them as
early as possible to a certain amount of independence, at the
same time trying to make them regard him as their best

friend.

      This aspect of his character is specially touched upon

by Mr. Leslie Stephen, in a letter written to my mother in

July 1895 :--

    No one, I think, could have more cordially admired Huxley's

intellectual vigour and unflinching honesty than I. It pleases me
to remember that I lately said something of this to him, and that he

Ireceived what said most heartily and kindly. But what now dwells

most in my mind is the memory of old kindness, and of the days

when I used to see him with you and his children. I may safely
Isay that never came from your house without thinking how good
he is ; what a tender and affectionate nature the man has ! It did

me good simply to see him. The recollection is sweet to me now,

and I rejoice to think how infinitely better you know what I must

have been dull indeed not more or less to perceive.

As he wrote to his son on his twenty-first birthday :--

    You will have a son some day yourself, I suppose, and if you
do, I can wish you no greater satisfaction than to be able to say

that he has reached manhood without having given you a serious

anxiety, and that you can look forward with entire confidence to his
Iplaying the man in the battle of life.
                                         have   tried  to  pmoasksiebleyo--u  feel
                                                early  as                     but,
your responsibilities and act independently as
Ionce for all, remember that am not only your father but your

nearest friend, ready to help you in all things reasonable, and perhaps

in a few unreasonable.

This domestic happiness which struck others so forcibly

was one of the vital realities of his existence. Without it

his quick spirit and nervous  emtebmitpteerraemdesnttrugcgoluel--d nnoetvemr ehraevley
endured the long and often

with equanimity, but with a constant growth of sympathy for

earnest humanity, which, in early days obscured from view by

the turmoil of strife, at length became apparent to all as the

tide of battle subsided. None realised more than himself

what the sustaining help and comradeship of married life

VOL. II                                                    2F

434  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                         CHAP.

had wrought for him, alike in making his life worth living

and in making his life's work possible. Here he found the
pivot of his happiness and his strength ; here he recognised

to the full the care that took upon itself all possible burdens

and left his mind free for his greater work.          " One
      He had always a great tenderness for children.

of my earliest recollections of him," writes Jeffery Parker,
" is in connection with a letter he wrote to my father, on the

occasion of the death, in infancy, of one of my brothers.
' Why,' he wrote, ' did you not tell us before that the child

was named after me, that we might have made his short life

happier by a toy or two.' I never saw a man more crushed

than he was during the dangerous illness of one of his

daughters, and he told me that, having then to make an

after-dinner speech, he broke down for the first time in his

life, and for one painful moment forgot where he was and

what he had to say. I can truly say that I never knew a

man whose way of speaking of his family, or whose manner
in his own home, was fuller of a noble, loving, and withal

playful courtesy."
     After he had retired to Eastbourne, his grandchildren

reaped the benefit of his greater leisure. In his age his love
of children brimmed over with undiminished force, unimpeded

by circumstances. He would make endless fun with them,

until one little mite, on her first visit, with whom her grand

father was trying to ingratiate himself with a vast deal of
nonsense, exclaimed : " Well, you are the curious'test old

man I ever seen."

     Another, somewhat older, developed a great liking for

astronomy under her grandfather's tuition. One day a visitor,

entering unexpectedly, was astonished to find the pair of

them kneeling on the floor in the hall before a large sheet of
paper, on which the professor was drawing a diagram of the

solar system on a large scale, with a little pellet and a large

ball to represent earth and sun, while the child was listening

with the closest attention to an account of the planets and

their movements, which he knew so well how to make simple

and precise without ever being dull.

     Children seemed to have a natural confidence in the

expression of mingled power and sympathy which, especially




. fn in a fiJurtm/s,:  4 .-/is j J'4tcey. ^ - ·:'/ ·rami

XXV 'THE WATER BABIES' 435

in his later years, irradiated his " square, wise, swarthy face," *
and proclaimed to all the sublimation of a broad native
humanity tried by adversity and struggle in the pursuit of

noble ends. It was the confidence that an appeal would not

be rejected, whether for help in distress, or for the satisfac
tion of the child's natural desire for knowledge.

      Spirit and determination in children always delighted
him. His grandson Julian, a curly-haired rogue, alternately
cherub and pickle, was a source of great amusement and
interest to him. The boy must have been about four years

old when my father one day came in from the garden, where

he had been diligently watering his favourite plants with a

big hose, and said : " I like that chap ! I like the way he
looks you straight in the face and disobeys you. I told him

not to go on the wet grass again. He just looked up boldly,
straight at me, as much as to say, ' What do you mean by
ordering me about ? ' and deliberately walked on to the

grass."

      The disobedient youth who so charmed his grandfather's
heart was the prototype of Sandy in Mrs. Humphry Ward's
David Grieve. When the book came out my father wrote
to the author : " We are very proud of Julian's apotheosis.
He is a most delightful imp, and the way in which he used

to defy me on occasion, when he was here, was quite refresh
ing. The strength of his conviction that people who inter
fere with his freedom are certainly foolish, probably wicked,

is quite Gladstonian."

     A year after, when Julian had learned to write, and was

reading the immortal Water Babies, wherein fun is poked
at his grandfather's name among the authorities on water-
babies and water-beasts of every description, he greatly
desired more light as to the reality of water-babies. There
is a picture by Linley Sambourne, showing my father and
Owen examining a bottled water-baby under big magnifying

glasses. Here, then, was a real authority to consult. So
he wrote a letter of enquiry, first anxiously asking his

mother if he would receive in reply a " proper letter " that

     1 "There never was     "a   face,  I do  believe" (wrote Sir Walter Besant of   the
portrait by John Collier),      wiser,        kindly, more beautiful for wisdom and  the
kindliness of than this                 more
                            of Huxley." -- The Queen, Nov. 16, 1895.
it,

-o6                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                      chap.

he could read for himself, or a " wrong kind of letter " that
must be read to him.

     Dear Grandpater --Have you seen a Waterbaby ? Did you
                                                  if                  out ? Can I see
pitutsoimt eindaayb?o--ttleYo?ur  Did it  wonder      it  could  get
                                  loving                                      Jul1an.

     To this he received the following reply from his grand

father, neatly printed, letter by letter, very unlike the

orderly confusion with which his pen usually rushed across
wthreitinpgap--er --to
                        time      being   so short for such a multitude of
                           the    great   perplexity, often, of his foreign

correspondents.

                                  STAVELET MAI.                       /9f/ </ 2. .

                                            EASTBOURBE.

 I £**U<r( >**k*

Sua* adoi^r- '^r

fibber ^                                                              And

xxv    fiaiij O'THE WATER BABIES'    437
                         tf*e iA/tf
 tfc*

 Was « ueyr7u kind *n<xn

See a.? m t<cA

438  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  CHAP.

^^f"(A/ ho See a.    c(e-a. £

anei Sonne lA/ho see

                                          Ver^

J dun* ra<j cj c/<x            ^

Batiks to he ye oXlie^
                                    ^tic*

Ca> n fee

                     ixoTiiutxCj

XXV 'THE WATER BABIES' 439

Da cI4 y                             hA a wt rvxij and

llJo y                         -

Others of his family would occasionally receive elaborate
                               of which I give a couple
pieces of nonsense,            his youngest daughter :--            of  specimens.
The following is to

                                                                Athenaeum Club,

                                                                May 17, 1892.

Dearest Babs --As I was going along Upper Thames Street

                                                                             primary parenthesis

Ijust now, saw between Nos. 170 and 211 (but you would like to
Iknow what was going along that odorous street for. Well, it was

Ito enquire how the pen with which           am       now  writing  --2nd p.  see  it  is

                                                                        (you

a new-fangled fountain pen, warranted to cure the worst writing and

always  spell             2nd  --p.  works,  because  it would  not work properly

               properly)

440                     LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                                            CHAP.

this morning.           And the nice young woman who took it from me --

3rd p.                                                      3rd p.
(as who should say you old foodie !) inked her own fingers enor-

      I4th p.                           was pleased they were her fingers rather

mously (which I told her

than         4th  --p.  But  she  only              smole.  5th p.

        mine)                                                 (Close by was another shop
Iwhere they sold hose --6 o(rin7dpi.arubber, not knitted) --n(.pa.nd warranted to
let water through, not keep it out) ; and                                  asked for a garden

ssyorritn--ge,antdhinthkeiyngsaisducthheythihnagds   likely to be kept          by hosiers   of that
                                                    not any, but found          they had a  remnant

                     n.n.p.

cheap (price 3s.) which is less than many people pay for the other
             end of pp.
                     a doorpost at the side of
hosiers' hose)       this remarkable notice :               rthuelindogorwgairyls  of some place   of
business with                                                                        wanted.

      I IDon't you think you had better apply at once ? Jack will give
you   a character,           am sure,  --onaltshoe          side of the    art of ruling, and
will  speak for         the science                         of hereditary    (on mother's side)

instinct.                                                           yet -- but
Ifor aWneyll,moraem. --nEovt esruryeouarbolouvt intghe
                                                            pen                 there  is   no room
                                                                                            Dad.

      Epistolary composition on the model of a Gladstonian speech to

a deputation on women's suffrage.

        The other is to his daughter, Mrs. Harold Roller, who

--had sent him from               abroad            a friend's autograph-book for a
                                                                     Hodeslea, Eastbourne,
signature :                                                                  Nov. i, 1893.

      The epistle of Thomas to the woman of the house of Harold.

I1. said it was an autograph-book ; and so it was.
2. And naughty words came to the root of my tongue.

3. And the recording angel dipped his pen in the ink and squared
         his elbows to write.

I4. But spied the hand of the lovely and accomplished but vaga

         bond daughter.

I5. And smole ; and spoke not ; nor uttered the naughty words.

6. So the recording angel was sold ;

7.      And was about to suck his pen.
8.
        But I said Nay ! give it to me.
I9. And took the pen and wrote on the book of the Autographs
                                                    and easy to read.
10.         letters     pleasant to the eye                                                -- nor  the
        Such as         my printers know             not: nor the postman

        correspondent, who riseth in his wrath and curseth over my

        epistle ordinary.

XXV LETTERS TO HIS CHILDREN                                       44 1

      This to his youngest daughter, which, in jesting form,
conveys a good deal of sound sense, was the sequel to a
discussion as to the advisability of a University education

for her own and another boy :--

                                           Hodeslea, Eastbourne,

                                             May 9, 1892.

    Dearest Bars --Bickers and Son have abased themselves, and

assure me that they have fetched the Dicty. away and are sending it
here. I shall believe them when it arrives.
    IAs a rule, do not turn up when I announce my coming, but
II believe
              shall be with you about dinner-time on Friday next

(13th).
     In the meanwhile, my good daughter, meditate these things :
      1. Parents not too rich wish to send exceptionally clever,

energetic lad to university --before taking up father's profession of

architect.                               classics at school-- not well taught

in  2. E.c.e.l. will  be    well taught  a scholarship either at school or
                      will   easily get
    other things --

university. So much in parents' pockets.

    3. E.c.e.l. will get as much mathematics, mechanics, and other

needful preliminaries to architecture, as he wants (and a good deal
more if he likes) at Oxford. Excellent physical school there.

     4. Splendid Art museums at Oxford.

      5. Prigs not peculiar to Oxford.               mathematics)
      6. Don Cambridge would choke science (except
if it could as willingly as Don Oxford and more so.

    7. Oxford always represents English opinion, in all its extremes,

better than Cambridge.

    8. Cambridge better for doctors, Oxford for architects, poets,

painters, and all that sort of cattle.
     9. Lawrence will go to Oxford and become a real scholar, which
is a great thing and a noble. He will combine the new and the old,
and show how much better the world would have been if it had

stuck to Hellenism. You are dreaming of the schoolboy who does

not follow up his work, or becomes a mere poll man. Good
                                           Lawrence will go to Oxford.
e--noEuvgehr  for parsons, not  for  men.
              your aggrawatin'                                                 Pa.

     Like the old Greek sage and statesman, my father

might have declared that old age found him ever learning.
Not indeed with the fiery earnestness of his young days of
stress and storm ; but with the steady advance of a

practised worker who cannot be unoccupied. History and

442  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY  chap.

philosophy, especially biblical criticism, composed his chief

reading in these later years.
      Fortune had ceased her buffets ; broken health was

restored ; and from his resting-place among his books and
his plants he watched keenly the struggle which had now

passed into other hands, still ready to strike a blow if need

be, or even, on rare occasions, to return to the fighting line,
as when he became a leader in the movement for London

University reform.

     His days at Eastbourne, then, were full of occupation, if
not the occupation of former days. The day began as
early ; he never relaxed from the rule of an eight o'clock
breakfast. Then a pipe and an hour and a half of letter-

writing or working at an essay. Then a short expedition
around the garden, to inspect the creepers, tend the
saxifrages, or see how the more exposed shrubs could best
be sheltered from the shrivelling winds. The gravelled
terrace immediately behind the house was called the
Quarterdeck ; it was the place for a brisk patrolling in un
certain weather or in a north wind. In the lower garden

was a parallel walk protected from the south by a high
double hedge of cypress and golden elder, designed for
shelter from the summer sun and southerly winds.

      Then would follow another spell of work till near one
o'clock ; the weather might tempt him out again before
lunch ; but afterwards he was certain to be out for an hour

or two from half-past two. However hard it blew, and
Eastbourne is seldom still, the tiled walk along the sea-wall
always offered the possibility of a constitutional. But the
high expanse of the Downs was his favourite walk. The
air of Beachy Head, 560 feet up, was an unfailing tonic.

In the summer he used to keep a look-out for the little
flowers of the short, close turf of the chalk which could
remind him of his Alpine favourites, in particular the curious
phyteuma ; and later on, in the folds of the hills where he
had marked them, the English gentians.

      After his walk, a cup of tea was followed by more
reading or writing till seven ; after dinner another pipe, and
then he would return to my mother in the drawing-room,
and settle down in his particular arm-chair, with some tough

XXV LIFE AT EASTBOURNE  443

volume of history or theology to read, every now and again
scoring a passage for future reference, or jotting a brief note

on the margin. At ten he would migrate to the study for a

final smoke before going to bed.

      Such was his routine, broken by occasional visits to
town on business, for he was still Dean of the Royal College
of Science and a trustee of the British Museum. Old

friends came occasionally to stay for a few days, and tea-
time would often bring one or two of the small circle of

friends whom he had made in Eastbourne. These also he
occasionally visited, but he scarcely ever dined out. The

talking was too tiring.
      The change to Eastbourne cut away a whole series of

interests, but it imported a new and very strong one into
my father's life. His garden was not only a convenient

ambulatory, but, with its growing flowers and trees, became
a novel and intense pleasure, until he began "to think with
Candide that ' Cultivons notre jardin ' comprises the whole
duty of man."

     It was strange that this interest should have come

suddenly at the end of his life. Though he had won the

prize in Lindley's botanical class he had never been a field
botanist till he was attracted by the Swiss gentians. As
has been said before, his love of nature had never run to
collecting either plants or animals. Mere " spider-hunters

and hay-naturalists," as a German friend called them, he was

inclined to regard as the camp-followers of science. It was

the engineering side of nature, the unity of plan of animal
construction, worked out in infinitely varying detail, which
engrossed him. Walking once with Hooker in the Rhone

valley, where the grass was alive with red and green grass
hoppers, he said, " I would give anything to be as interested

in them as you are."

       But this feeling, unknown to him before, broke out in
his gentian work. He told Hooker, " I can't express the

delight I have in them." It continued undiminished when

once he settled in the new house and laid out a garden.
His especial love was for the rockery of Alpines, many of

which came from Sir J. Hooker.

       Here, then, he threw himself into gardening with

444  LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY                             chap.

characteristic ardour. He described his position as a kind
of mean between the science of the botanist and the
empiricism of the working gardener. He had plenty to
suggest, but his gardener, like so many of his tribe, had a
rooted mistrust of any gardening lore culled from books.
" Books ? They'll say anything in them books." And he
shared, moreover, that common superstition, perhaps really
based upon a question of labour, that watering of flowers,

unnecessary in wet weather, is actively bad in dry. So my
father's chief occupation in the garden was to march about
with a long hose, watering, and watering especially his
alpines in the upper garden and along the terraces lying
below the house. The saxifrages and the creepers on the

house were his favourite plants. When he was not watering
the one he would be nailing up the other, for the winds of

Eastbourne are remarkably boisterous, and shrivel up what

they do not blow down. " I believe I shall take to garden

ing," he writes, a few months after entering the new house,

" if I live long enough. I have got so far as to take a

lively interest in the condition of my shrubs, which have

been awfully treated by the long cold."

      From this time his letters contain many references to
his garden. He is astonished when his gardener asks leave

to exhibit at the local show, but delighted with his pluck.
Hooker jestingly sends him a plant " which will flourish on
any dry, neglected bit of wall, so I think it will just suit you."

      Great improvements have been going on (he writes in 1892),

and the next time you come you shall walk in the "avenue" of

four box-trees. Only five are    to be     had  for love  "oarvemnuoeney"    at
present, but there are hopes of  a sixth,  and  then the
Ibe full ten yards long ! Figurez vous (a                                  will

     It was of this he wrote on October --1 :

    IThank Heaven we are settled down again and can vibrate

between my beloved books and even more beloved saxifrages.
     The additions to the house are great improvements every way,

outside and in, and when the conservatory is finished we shall be
quite palatial ; but, alas, of all my box-trees only one remains green,
that is the "amari," or more properly "fusci " aliquid.

     Sad things will happen, however. Although the local

XXV LOVE FOR THE GARDEN 445

florists vowed that the box-trees would not stand the winds

of Eastbourne, he was set on seeing if he could not get them

to grow despite the gardeners, whom he had once or twice

found false prophets. But this time they were right. Vain

were watering and mulching and all the arts of the

husbandman. The trees turned browner and browner every

day, and the little avenue from terrace to terrace had to be

ignominiously uprooted and removed.        the  following  :--

     A sad blow this, worse even than

     A lovely clematis in full flower,  I  which I had spent hours in

nailing up, has just died suddenly.         am more inconsolable than

Jonah !

     He answers  some  gardening chaff of Sir Michael

Foster's :--

   IWait till cut you out at the Horticultural. I have not made
Iup my mind what to compete in yet. Look out when do !

     And when the latter offered           to propose  him for that

Society, he replied :--

    Proud an' 'appy should I be to belong to the Horticultural   if
                                                                 if
you will see to it. Could send specimens of nailing up creepers
qualification is required.

After his long battlings for his early loves of science and

liberty of thought, his later love of the tranquil garden

seemed in harmony with the dignified rest from struggle.

To those who thought of the past and the present, there was

something touching in the sight of the old man whose

unquenched fires now lent a gentler glow to the peaceful

retirement he had at length won for himself. His latter

days were fruitful and happy in their unflagging intellectual

interests, set off by the new delights of the succidia altera,

that second resource of hale old age for many a century.

All through his last and prolonged illness, from earliest

spring until midsummer, he loved to hear how the garden

was getting on, and would ask after certain flowers and

plants.  When the bitter cold spring was over and the

warm weather came, he spent most of the day outside, and

even recovered so far as to be able to walk once into the

lower garden and visit his favourite flowers. These

children of his old age helped to cheer him to the last.


                    APPENDIX I

As for this unfinished work, suggestive outlines left for others
to fill in, Professor Howes writes to me in October 1899 :--

     Concerning the papers at S.K. which, as part of the contents

of your father's book-shelves, were given by him to the College,
and now are arranged, numbered, and registered in order for use,

there is evidence that in 1858 he, with his needles and eyeglass,
had dissected and carefully figured the so-called pronephros of the
Frog's tadpole, in a manner which as to accuracy of detail antici
pated later discovery. Again, in the early '8o's, he had observed

and recorded in a drawing the prae-pulmonary aortic arch of the

Amphibian, at a period antedating the researches of Boas, which in
connection with its discovery placed the whole subject of the mor
phology of the pulmonary artery of the vertebrata on its final basis,

and brought harmony into our ideas concerning
      Both these subjects lie at the root of modern advances in verte
                                                 it.
brate morphology.                                      a

                                                          it

                                                                            a
      Concerning the skull, he was in the '8o's back to with will.
His line of attack was through the lampreys and hags and the

higher cartilaginous fishes, and he was following up revolutionary

conception (already hinted at in his Hunterian Lectures in 1864,

and later in Royal Society paper on Amphioxus in 1875), that
           a
the trabecular cranii, judged by their relationships to the nerves, mayis a
                  pair of pras-oral visceral arches. In his unpublished
represent

notes there evidence that he was bringing to the support of this

cnb"oeehrenvyncepluo--tsreihortimhnneeadlthr"eetlohadretisiopc"anolvsaoehtrrobiyp-intsoanosaofaslfaltdshuii"svpipso(iowsteonhd)itchahe4ntdhthreatbhbreeapcnruooclphpaorhsttehodaartlcmhhetiocatnrt(iedgtoremamhsiatnuhvpaeel
                    I
                              a
                                             1)
                                            i.,
posed prae-mandibular visceral cleft, being regarded as repetitional
of those of the maxillary and mandibular divisions to the man

dibular cleft. So far as am aware, von Kupffer the only observeris
who has given this startling conclusion support, in his famous

1     term already applied by him in 1875 to the corresponding nerve in the

   A

Batrachia. (Ency. Brit. 9th edition, vol.        art. "Amphibia.")

44S LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Studien (Hf. I. Kopf Acipenser, Miinchen, 1893), and from the
nature of other recent work on the genesis of parts of the cranium

Ihitherto thought to be wholly trabecular in origin, it might well be
further upheld. As for the discovery of the nerve,                                     have been

lately much interested to find that Mr. E. Phelps Allis, jun., an in

vestigator who has done grand work in Cranial Morphology, has

recently and independently arrived at a similar result. It was

while working in my laboratory in July last that he mentioned the

fact to me. Remembering that your father had published the

aforementioned hints on the subject, and recalling conversations I

had with him, it occurred to me to look into his unpublished MSS.
(then being sorted), if perchance he had gone further. And, be
hold ! there is a lengthy attempt to write the matter up in full,

in which, among other things, he was seeking to show that, on this

basis, the mode of termination of the notochord in the Craniata,

and in the Branchiortomidae (in which the trabecular arch is un
differentiated), is readily explained.          Mr. Allis's studies are now
progressing, and I have arranged with him that
                                                                             in the end, his
               aa
                               a

                                                      I
                                                                                        a
                                                                                            if,
                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                        a
results come sufficiently close to your father's, he shall give his

work due recognition and publicity.

             Among his schemes of the early '8o's, there was actually com

menced work on the principles of Mammalian Anatomy and an

Elementary Treatise on the Vertebrata. The former exists in the

shape of number of drawings with very brief notes, the latter to
slight extent only in MS. In the former, intended for the medical

s"tutrdeeent"  and as means of familiarising him with the anatomical
               as distinct from its surgical " leaves," your father once

again returned to the skull, and he leaves scheme for revised

terminology of its nerve exits worthy his best and most clear-headed

endeavours of the past.1 And well do remember how, in the

'8o's, both in the class-room and in conversation, he would empha

sise the fact that the hypoglossus nerve roots of the mammal arise

serially with the ventral roots of the spinal nerves, little thinking

that the discovery by Froriep, in 1886, of their dorsal ganglionated

counterparts, would establish the actual homology between the two,

and by leading to the conclusion that though actual vertebrae do

not contribute to the formation of the mammalian skull, its

             Concerning this he wrote to Professor Howes in 1890 when giving him
             1

                 I

                                            it
                                                                      a

                                                  I:
                                                           I

                                                                          I
permission to denote two papers which he was about to                      present to  LtahbeorZaotoorloygica--l
                                                                           Research
S"oPcrieatyy,    as the first which emanated   from the Huxley                         I
               do as you think best about the   nomenclature.                                   :

                                                                                                I
                                                                             remember when began
to work at the skull seemed hopeless problem, and years elapsed before
got hold of the clue."
     And six weeks later, he  writes  -- " You  are always welcome                     to turn  any

Ifthing of mine to account, though    vow      do not just now recollect anything

about the terms you mention.          you were to examine me in my own papers                   I

believe should be plucked."

                            APPENDIX I                         449

occipital region is of truncal origin, mark the most revolutionary
advance in cranial morphology since his own of 1856.

     Much of the final zoological work of his life lay with the Bony

Fishes, and he leaves unfinished (indeed only just commenced) a
memoir embodying a new scheme of classification of these, which

shows that he was intending to do for them what he did for Birds

in the most active period of his career. It was my good fortune

to have helped as a hodman in the study of these creatures, with a

view to a Text-book we were to have written conjointly, and as I

Irealise what he was intending to make out of the dry facts, am
filled with grief at the thought of what we must have lost. His

classification was based on the labours of years, as testified by a

vast accumulation of rough notes and sketches, and as a con

spicuous feature of it there stands the embodiment under one head

of all those fishes having the swim-bladder in connection with the
auditory organ by means of a chain of ossicles -- a revolutionary
                            in the hands of
arrangement, which later,                          --the"   late Dr. Sagemahl,
and by his introduction of   the famous term               Ostariophyseae," has

done more than all else of recent years to clear the Ichthyological
air. Your father had anticipated this unpublished, and in a pro

p"oCsalul petsoocuensi,t"e    the Herrings  and    Pikes into a single group, the
                            he had further  given  promise of a new system, based

on the study of the structure of the fins, jaws, and reproductive

organs of the Bony Fishes, the classifications of which are still

largely chaotic, which would have been as revolutionary as it was

rational. New terms both in taxonomy and anatomy were contem

Iec"ptbhallreaCenamttynese--sdcpnt,hoitniwa-noaarhgsnyreidicaahnanfindinn"gd-irvamap"eryaeuasrltdttahiinwpaeforretasiraidemecdeujeaelftdacion.ttioev"hfea"tHvwyfeaphiorseartmhtb"repoepwuonnrbaeof slmttiowstenehotsrcoem,--m"deehdfsaaatvrne"-er"drme:aactscchaoahonmn"isdnteehEg.olhaonasaefdmnmStdhiohemees-s""iilmglaivnarotelnihryfeddei,

to complete the task, question whether it would not have excelled

his earlier achievements.

The Rabbit was to have been the subject of the first of the

afore-mentioned books, and in the desire to get at the full meaning of

problems which arose during its progress, he was led to digress into

a general anatomical survey of the Rodentia, and in testimony to

this there remain five or six books of rough notes bearing dates
1880 to 1884, and a series of finished pencil-drawings, which, as
works of art and accurate delineations of fact, are among the
most finished productions of his hand. In the same manner his

contemplated work upon the Vertebrata led him during 1879-1880
to renewed investigation of the anatomy of some of the more

aberrant orders. Especially as concerning the Marsupialia and

Edentata was this the case, and to the end in view he secured

VOL. II                                                    2G

45° LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

living specimens of the Vulpine Phalanger, and purchased of the

Zoological Society the Sloths and Ant-eaters which during that

period died in their Gardens. These he carefully dissected, and

he leaves among his papers a series of incomplete notes (fullest
as concerning the Phalanger and Cape Ant-eater [Orycteropus]
I
        1which were never finished up.
      Ia
                    aThey prove that he intended the production of special mono
                       it
                                       agraphs on the anatomy of these peculiar mammalian forms, as he
                                                                   aadid on members of other orders which he had less fully investigated,

                                                                                                    aand on the more important groups of fishes alluded to in the
                                                                                                         it
earlier part of my letter; and there seems no doubt, from the
                                                                                                                                ;poafpedrate"sOnandthestAupdyplicoaftitohne
collocation                                              order of the events, that his
                                                                                                                amemorableof the Laws of Evolution to

                                                                                                                                                                 1),the arrangement of theinVsecriettehnbetriafitcPar,tohce.asnedsZ--oomlw. oarseSocth.pearftodirciruel1ca8trl8y0o,uot--cfomtthheee

Mammalia," published
most masterly among his

of this intention, the only expression which he gave to the world of

the interaction of series of revolutionary ideas and conceptions
(begotten of the labours of his closing years as working zoologist)

which were at the period assuming shape in his mind. They have

done more than all else of their period to rationalise the application

of our knowledge of the Vertebrata, and have now left their mark

for all time on the history of progress, as embodied in our

classificatory systems.

He was in 1882 extending his important observations upon the

respiratory apparatus from birds to reptiles, with results which show
                                                                    otfyfpuensd--amefnietladl
him to  have been keenly appreciative of the             existence
points  of similarity between the Avian and              Chelonian

which has been more recently independently opened up by Milani.
Nor must be imagined that after the publication of his ideal

work on the Crayfishes in 1880, he had forsaken the Invertebrata.

On the contrary, during the late '70's, and on till 1882, he accumu

lated considerable number of drawings (as usual with brief notes),
on the Mollusca. Some are rough, others beautiful in every respect,

and among the more conspicuous outcomes of the work are some

detailed observations on the nervous system, and an attempt to
             new terminology of orientation of the Acephalous
formulate

Molluscan body. The period embraces that of his research upon the

Spirula of the Challenger expedition, since published and incident

ally to this he also accumulated         series of valuable drawings, with

explanatory notes, of Cephalopod anatomy, which, as accurate records

of fact, are unsurpassed.

        was privileged to assist in the dissection of the latter animal, and well do
remember how, when by means of blow-pipe he had inflated the bladder,
"Iintent on determining its limit of distensibility, the organ burst, with unpleasant
results, which called forth the remark,  think we'll leave at that !"

APPENDIX II  451

     As you are aware, he was practically the founder of the Anthro
pological Institute. Here again, in the late '6o's and early '70's,
he was most clearly contemplating a far-reaching inquiry into the
physical anthropology of all races of mankind. There remain in

testimony to this some 400 to 500 photographs (which I have had

carefully arranged in order and registered), most of them of the
nude figure standing erect, with the arm extended against a scale.

A desultory correspondence proves that in connection with these

he was in treaty with British residents and agents all over the
world, with the Admiralty and naval officers, and that all was being
done with a fixed idea in view. He was clearly contemplating
something exhaustive and definite which he never fulfilled, and
the method is now the more interesting from its being essentially
the same as that recently and independently adopted by Mortillet.

      Beyond this, your father's notes reveal numerous other indica
tions of matters and phases of activity, of great interest in their
bearings on the history and progress of contemporary investigation,
but these are of a detailed and wholly technical order.

                     APPENDIX II

      His administrative work as an officer of the Royal
Society is described in the following note by Sir Joseph

Hooker :--

      Mr. Huxley was appointed Joint-Secretary of the Royal Society,
November 30, 187 1, in succession to Dr. Sharpey, Sir George Airy
being President, and Professor (now Sir George) Stokes, Senior
Secretary. He held the office till November 30, 1 880. The duties of
the office are manifold and heavy ; they include attendance at all the
meetings of the Fellows, and of the councils, committees, and sub
-committees of the Society, and especially the supervision of the
printing and illustrating all papers on biological subjects that are
published in the Society's Transactions and Proceedings : the latter

often involving a protracted correspondence with the authors. To

this must be added a share in the supervision of the staff of officers,
of the library and correspondence, and the details of house-keeping.

     The appointment was well-timed in the interest of the Society,
for the experience he had obtained as an officer in the Surveying
Expedition of Captain Stanley rendered his co-operation and advice
of the greatest value in the efforts which the Society had recently
commenced to induce the Government, through the Admiralty
especially, to undertake the physical and biological exploration of the
ocean. It was but a few months before his appointment that he
had been placed upon a committee of the Society, through which

              LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

H.M.S. Porcupine was employed for this purpose in the Euro

pean seas, and negotiations had already been commenced with the

Admiralty for a voyage of circumnavigation with the same objects,

which eventuated in the Challenger Expedition.

     In the first year of his appointment, the equipment of the
Challenger, and selection of its officers, was entrusted to the Royal

Society, and in the preparation of the instructions to the naturalists
Mr. Huxley had a dominating responsibility. In the same year a

correspondence commenced with the India Office on the subject of

deep-sea dredging in the Indian Ocean  a      came to nothing), and

another with the Royal Geographical Society on that of a North(it

Polar Expedition, which resulted in the Nares Expedition (1875).
In 1873, another with the Admiralty on the advisability of appoint

ing naturalists to accompany two of the expeditions about to be

despatched for observing the transit of Venus across the sun's disk

in Mauritius and Kerguelen, which resulted in three naturalists

being appointed. Arduous as was the correspondence devolving on
the Biological Secretary, through the instructing and instalment of

these two expeditions,                 was as nothing compared with the official,
              a it
demi-official, and private, with the Government and individuals, thatit

arose from the Government request that the Royal Society should
arrange for the publication and distribution of the enormous
collections brought home by the above-named expedition. It not
                                                                     is
too much to say that Mr. Huxley had voice in every detail of                a
these publications. The sittings of the Committee of Publication of

the Challenger Expedition collections (of which Sir  ; J. D. Hooker

was chairman, and Mr. Huxley the most active member) were proa
tracted from 1876 to 1895, and resulted in the publication of fifty
royal quarto volumes, with plates, maps, sections, etc., the work of

seventy-six authors, every shilling of the expenditure on which (some
£50,000) was passed under the authority of the Committee of

Publication.

Nor was Mr. Huxley less actively interested   in  the domestic affairs

of the Society. In 1873 the whole establishment was translated
from the building subsequently occupied by the Royal Academy to
                                                            flitting of
that which    now inhabits in the same quadrangle

library stuff and appurtenances involving great responsibilities on
the officers for the satisfactory re-establishment of the whole insti
tution. In 1874 a very important alteration of the bye-laws was
effected, whereby that which gave to Peers the privilege of being

proposed for election as Fellows, without previous selection by the

Committee (and to which bye-laws, as may be supposed, Mr. Huxley
was especially repugnant), was replaced  by
                                              one restricting that
privilege to Privy Councillors. In 1875 he actively supported
proposition for extending the interests taken in the Society by hold

ing annually reception, to which the lady friends of the Fellows

                                          APPENDIX III  453

who were interested in science should be invited to inspect an
exhibition of some of the more recent inventions, appliances and
discoveries in science. And in the same year another reform took

place in which he was no less interested, which was the abolition
of the entrance fees for ordinary Fellows, which had proved a bar to
the coming forward of men of small incomes, but great eminence.
The loss of income to the Society from this was met by a subscrip
tion of no less than £10,666, raised almost entirely amongst the
Fellows themselves for the purpose.

     In 1876 a responsibility, that fell heavily on the Secretaries, was
the allotment annually of a grant by the Treasury of £4000, to be
expended, under the direction of the Royal 1 and other learned
societies, on the advancement of science. Every detail of the business
of this grant is undertaken by a large committee of the Royal and
other scientific societies, which meets in the Society's rooms, and

where all the business connected with the grant is conducted and the

records kept.

                                          APPENDIX III

LIST OF ESSAYS, BOOKS, AND SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS
                            BY T. H. HUXLEY

                                               ESSAYS

"The Darwinian Hypothesis."                    (Times, December 26, 1859.)

         Collected Essays,                ii.
" On the Educational Value of the Natural History Sciences." (Ana

       Address delivered at St. Martin's Hall, on July 22, 1854,

and published as                               pamphlet in that year.) Lay Sermons
                                                        is
Collected Essays, iii.
                                                             ;
"Time and Life." (Macmillan's Magazine, December 1859.)                      ;
"The Origin of Species." (The Westminster Review, April 1860.)

       Lay Sermons Collected Essays, ii.
" A Lobster or the Study of Zoology." (A Lecture delivered at

        the South Kensington Museum in 1861, and subsequently
:

      ;

published by the Department of Science and Art. Original
title, "On the Study of Zoology.") Lay Sermons Collected

Essays, viii.

"Geological Contemporaneity and Persistent Types of Life." (The
       Anniversary Address to the Geological Society for 1862.) Lay
        Sermons; Collected Essays, viii.

" Six Lectures to Working Men on Our Knowledge of the Causes

It often called grant to the Royal Society. This        an error. The
1
         is
                                       a

Royal Society, as such, in no way participates in this grant. The Society makes

grants from funds in its own possession only.

4 54 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y

       of the Phenomena of Organic Nature, 1863." Collected

   A   Essays,

"Man's Place in Nature," see List of Books. Republished, Collecteda

                 ; ii.Essays, vii.
"Criticisms on 'The Origin of Species.'" (The Natural History;; ;
" EmaRnecviiepwat, ion18--64B.)lackLaayndSeWrmhoitnes."    Collected Essays,
                                                     :       (The Reader, May 20, 1865.)
       Lay                                            Collected Essays, iii.i.
"  On        Sermons                                  and Results of Ethnology."      (The Fortnightly
        the  Methods                                       ;
                                                                          ;

                                                                                                ii.
                                                                                                                 7,
       Review, 1865.) Critiques and Addresses Collected Essays, vii.
"On the Advisableness of Improving Natural Knowledge." (A
       Lay Sermon delivered in St. Martin's Hall, January
                                                                                                                     1866,

       and subsequently published in the Fortnightly Review.) Lay

        Sermons Collected Essays,
" Liberal Education and where to find it." (An Address to the

        South London Working Men's College, delivered January 4,

       1868, and subsequently published in Macmillan's Magazine.)

"      Lay Sermons Collected Essays, iii.                                         to  the  working                   men
   On Piece of Chalk." (A Lecture delivered
       of Norwich, during the meeting of the British Association, in

       1868. Subsequently published                        Macmillan's Magazine.)
                                                           ; in
       Lay Sermons Collected Essays, viii.                        8,

                                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                           in
"On the Physical Basis of Life." (A Lay Sermon, delivered in
       Edinburgh, on Sunday, November                      1868, at the request

       of the late Rev. James Cranbrook subsequently published
       the Fortnightly Review.) Lay Sermons; Collected Essays,
"  The Scientific Aspects of Positivism." (A Reply to Mr. Congreve's

       Attack upon the Preceding Paper. Published in the Fort

       nightly Review, 1869.) Lay Sermons.
"The Genealogy of Animals." (A Review of Haeckel's Natiirliche
                                                        The Academy, 1869.) Critiques and
       Schbpfungs-Geschichte.

         Addresses; Collected Essays,
   Geological Reform." (The Anniversary
"               ;                                          Address                    to   the  Geological

                          '
                                      :

                                                     ii.

                                                   ;
"       Society for 1869.)                               Lay Sermons Collected Essays, viii.                         (De
   Scientific Education                                 Notes of an After-Dinner Speech."

       livered before the Liverpool Philomathic Society in April 1869,

       and subsequently published in Macmillan's Magazine.) Lay

       Sermons Collected Essays, iii.
" On Descartes' Discourse touching the Method of using one's

       Reason rightly, and of seeking Scientific Truth.' " (An Address
       to the Cambridge Young Men's Christian Society, delivered on

       March 24, 1870, and subsequently published in Macmillan's

       Magazine.) Lay Sermons Collected Essays,                                       i.
                                                        ;

"On some Fixed Points in British Ethnology." (The Contemporary
       Review, July 1870.)                              Critiques and Addresses; Collected

       Essays, vii.

                                  APPENDIX III                                              455

" Biogenesis and Abiogenesis." (The Presidential Address to the
       British Association for the Advancement of Science, 1870.)
        Critiques and  Addresses ; Collected Essays,                    viii.
"  Paleontology and     the Doctrine of Evolution."                        (The     Presidential

       Address    to    the Geological          Society,       1870.)         Critiques and
       Addresses      Collected Essays,       viii.
                  ;
"On Medical Education." (An Address to the Students of the
       Faculty of Medicine in University College, London,
                                                                                         1870.)
       Critiques and Addresses ; Collected Essays, iii.
"On Coral and Coral Reefs." (Good Words, 1870.) Critiques and
        Addresses.
"  The School Boards        :  What     they  can              do, and  what  they  may do."

       (The Contemporary Review, 1870.)                        Critiques and Addresses ;

"        Collected Essays, iii.         (An Address delivered to the Members
   Administrative Nihilism."

       of the Midland Institute, on October 9, 187 1, and subse
                                                                                 Critiques and
       quently published in the Fortnightly                    Review.)

"      Addresses ; Collected Essays, i.

   Mr. Darwin's Critics." (The Contemporary Review, November
       1871.) Critiques and Addresses                          ; Collected Essays,
"       the Formation of Coal." (A                             Lecture delivered    ii.

   On                                                                               before  the

       Members of the Bradford Philosophical Institution, and sub

       sequently published in the Contemporary Review.)                             Critiques
       and Addresses Collected Essays, viii.
              :

                    ;

                                     1.) ;
"  Yeast." (The Contemporary Review, December 29, 1871.)

        Critiques and Addresses Collected Essays, viii.                          (Macmillan's
" Bishop Berkeley on the Metaphysics of Sensation."

       Magazine, June 187                   Critiques and Addresses; Collected

"       Essays, vi.            Deep Sea"         (1873). Collected Essays,                viii.
"                              and Ideal."         (The Inaugural Address                of the
   The Problems of the

   Universities Actual

       Lord Rector of the University of Aberdeen, February 27,
       1874. Contemporary Review, 1874.) Science and Culture;
                               iii.
"        Collected Essays,     (An      Address  delivered              on the Occasion of
   Joseph Priestley."
       the Presentation of Statue of Priestley to the Town of Bir
                                     a

       mingham on August 1, 1874.) Science and Culture; Collected
       Essays, iii.
"  On   the Hypothesis      that     Animals     are Automata,          and      its History."

       (An Address delivered at the Meeting of the British Association
       for the Advancement of Science, at Belfast, 1874.) Science
       and Culture
       some of the      Collected Essays,
                       Results of the Expedition
"                 ;

                                                           i.

   On                                                          of       H.M.S.      Challenger,"

"  On  1875.     Collected Essays,      viii.                  the Animal     and   Vegetable
         the  Border Territory          between

       Kingdoms." (An Evening Lecture at the Royal Institution,

456 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

       Friday, January 28, 1876. Macmillan's Magazine, 1876.)
       Science and Culture ; Collected Essays, viii.

"Three Lectures on Evolution." (New York, September 18, 20,
                               American Addresses ; Collected Essays, iv.
"  On  22,   1876.)           of Biology." (A Lecture in connection with           the
        the   Study

       Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus at South Kensington
       Museum, December 16, 1876.) American Addresses ; Collected

       Essays, iii.                                (Delivered at the opening of
" Address on University Education."

       the Johns        Hopkins       University,  Baltimore, September    12, 1876.)
       American         Addresses                  Essays, iii.
"                                     ; Collected

   Elementary Instruction in Physiology." (Read at the Meeting
       of the Domestic Economy Congress at Birmingham,
                                                                           1877.)
       Science and Culture ; Collected Essays, iii.

"Technical Education." (An Address delivered to the Working
       Men's Club and Institute, December
                                                              1,  1877.)  Science and
       Culture ; Collected Essays, iii.
" Evolution in Biology." (The Encyclopedia Britannica, ninth
       edition, vol. viii. 1878.)                  Science and Culture; Collected

       Essays,          7, ii.  Collected Essays, vi. See also under " Books."
""HOunmeS,e"nsa1t8io7n8.      and the Unity of Structure of the Sensiferous
                            ;
       Organs." (An Evening Lecture at the Royal Institution, Friday,
       March                  1879.) Nineteenth Century, April 1879. Science

"       and Culture              Collected Essays, vi.  E.    Haeckel's   Freedom  in
   Prefatory Note             to the Translation of

"  On  Science          and Teaching," 1879.          (Kegan Paul.)        attributed
       Certain          Errors respecting the      Structure of the Heart

       to Aristotle." Nature, November                        ii. 6,1879. Science and
                                                                   ;
"        Culture.       of    Age     of      The Origin of Species.' "   (An Evening
   The Coming                         ;
                                           '
       Lecture at the Royal Institution, Friday, April 9, 1880.)
        Science and Culture Collected
"  On the Method of Zadig." (A                     Essays,    delivered at the Work
                                                   Lecture

       ing Men's College, Great Ormond Street, 1880. Nineteenth

       Century, June 1880.) Science and Culture Collected Essays,
       iv.
" Science and Culture." (An Address delivered at the Opening of
       Sir Josiah Mason's Science College, at Birmingham, on
       October                        Science and Culture; Collected Essays, iii.
"                       1,    1880.)  Biological Sciences with Medicine." (An

   The Connection of the

       Address delivered at the Meeting of the International Medical

       Congress in London, August              9,  1881.) Science and Culture      ;

"       Collected Essays, iii.        of      Paleontology."  (An Address delivered
   The Rise and Progress

       at the York Meeting of the British Association for the Advance

                          APPENDIX III                                                               457

       ment of Science, 1881.)                                      Controverted Questions; Collected
        Essays, iv.
"Charles Darwin." (Obituary                                        Notice in Nature, April 1882.)

        Collected Essays,
" On Science and Art in Relation to Education." (An Address to the
   Members of the Liverpool Institution, 1882.);                                                 Collected

"       Essays,                        ii. ii.iii.the Medical    Profession."  (The Opening Address
   The State     and
                                      ;; ; ;
   at the London Hospital Medical School, 1884.) Collected      :
        Essays, iii.
"  The Darwin Memorial."                                         (A Speech delivered at the Unveiling of

   the Darwin Statue at South Kensington, June 9, 1885.)

         Collected Essays,

" The Interpreters of Genesis and the Interpreters of Nature."

   (Nineteenth Century, December 1885.) Controverted Questions
                                                                                                 1

                                                                                                        ;
         Collected Essays, iv.
" Mr. Gladstone and Genesis." (Nineteenth Century, February 886.)

"        Controverted   Questions                                Collected Essays, iv.  Study."  (Nine
                       of Theology                                 An Anthropological
   The Evolution

   teenth Century, March and April 1886.) Controverted Ques
        tions Collected Essays, iv.
" Science and Morals." (Fortnightly Review, November 1886.)

"       Controverted Questions Collected Essays,                               ix.               Century,
   Scientific and Pseudo-Scientific Realism."                                  (Nineteenth

   February 1887.) Controverted Questions; Collected Essays, v.
"Science and Pseudo-Science." (Nineteenth Century, April 1887.)

        Controverted Questions Collected Essays, v.

"An Episcopal Trilogy." (Nineteenth Century, November 1887.)

"        Controverted Questions      Collected Essays, v.                      for      the  Promotion
                                 National Association
   Address on behalf of the

       of Technical Education" (1887). Collected Essays, iii.
"The Progress of Science" (1887). (Reprinted from The Reign of
   Queen Victoria, by T. H. Ward.) Collected Essays,
"Darwin Obituary." (Proc.                                                                    i.
"The Struggle for Existence                                                                                ii.
                                                                 Roy. Soc. 1888.) Collected Essays,
                                                                 in Human Society." (Nineteenth      Cen

   tury, February 1888.) Collected Essays, ix.

"Agnosticism." (Nineteenth Century, February 1889.) Controverted
         Questions Collected Essays, v.

"The Value of Witness to the Miraculous."
"                                                                                       (Nineteenth Cen

                  ;
                                   ;;
   tury, March 1889.)                                              Controverted Questions; Collected

         Essays, v.                                                                     April    1889.)

   Agnosticism: A Rejoinder." (Nineteenth Century,

        Controverted Questions Collected Essays, v.

"Agnosticism and Christianity." (Nineteenth Century, June 1889.)
         Controverted Questions Collected Essays, v.
                                                                                                 (Nine
"The Lights of the Church and the Light of Science."

458 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

   teenth Century, July 1890.) Controverted Questions ; Collected

   Essays, iv.
"The Keepers of the
                              Herd of Swine."          {;NiCneotlleeecntethd        Centuty,
"       December      1890.)                                                      Essays, v.
   Capital, the       Mother  Controverted Questions
                              of Labour." (Nineteenth Century, March

"The18N9a0t.u) ral  Collected Essays, ix.              (Nineteenth Century, January
                     Inequality of Men."

"       1890.) Collected Essays, i.                    (Nineteenth      Century,  February
   Natural Rights and Political Rights."

"        1890. )    Collected Essays, i.               (Nineteenth                 Century,
   Government       : Anarchy or Regimentation."                                  originally
                                                               This
   May 1890.) Collected Essays, i.

"Autobiography."          (1890, Collected Essays,     i.)
                                                                    ;
   appeared with portrait in series of biographical sketches
                      a                         a

   by C. Engel.          ;
"The Aryan Question." (Nineteenth Century, November 1890.)
       Collected Esays, vii.
" Illustrations of Mr. Gladstone's Controversial Methods."                             Nine

   teenth Century, March 1891.) Controverted Questions Collected

       Essays, v.                               (Nineteenth Century, June 1891.)       Con
" Hasisadra's Adventure."

"        troverted   Questions Collected        Essays, iv.                       for  1892.)
   Possibilities    and Impossibilities."         (The Agnostic Annual

   89 Collected Essays, v.
"Social Diseases and Worse Remedies" (1891). Letters to the1
   Times, December 1890 and January 1891. Published in
   pamphlet form (Macmillan & Co.) 1891. Collected Essays, ix.; 1,
                   '
""APnroloAgpuoelogtoeticConIrternoivceornt.e"d    (Fortnightly Review,  November 1892.)
                                                Questions' " (1892).    Controverted Ques

   tions Collected Essays, v.

"Evolution and Ethics," being the Romanes Lecture for 1893.
   Also "Prolegomena," 1894. Collected Essays, ix.
"Owen's Position          Anatomical Science," being                       chapter in the
                      in                                                a

   Life of Sir Richard Owen, by his grandson, the Rev. Richard

   Owen (1894).

                                                BOOKS

" Kolliker's Manual of Human Histology." (Translated and edited
   by T. H. Huxley and G. Busk), 1853.
"Evidence as        to Man's Place in Nature," 1863.
" Lectures on       the Elements of Comparative Anatomy                    "  (one     volume

   only published), 1864.
"Elementary Atlas of Comparative Osteology" (in 12 plates), 1864.
"Lessons in Elementary Physiology." First edition printed 1866;

   second edition, 1868; reprinted 1869, 1870, 1871, 1872

                                APPENDIX III                                         459

       (twice); third edition, 1872; reprinted 1873, 1874, 1875,

       1876, 1878, 1879, 1881, 1883, 1884 (six times); fourth
       edition, 1885; reprinted 1886, 1888, 1890, 1892, 1893

"  An  (twice), 1896, 1898.                                 of  Animals,"   1869.
       Introduction to the Classification                                   edition
" Lay Sermons, Addresses, and Reviews." First
                                                                                     printed

       1870; second edition, 1871 ; reprinted 1871, 1872, 1874,
       1877, 1880, 1883; third edition, 1887; reprinted iSgr, 1893

"       (twice), 1895,   1899.                    Sermons,      Addresses,  and Reviews."
   Essays Selected      from Lay

"       First edition, 187 1 ;  reprinted 1874, 1877.                       187 1 (Churchill).
   Manual of the Anatomy        of Vertebrated Animals,"

"Critiques and Addresses." First edition printed 1873; reprinted

"A      1883 and 1890.          Instruction       in Elementary Biology."            By
       Course of Practical

       Prof. Huxley and Dr. H. N. Martin. First edition printed

       1875; second edition, 1876; reprinted 1877 (twice), 1879
       (twice), 1881, 1882, 1883, 1885, 1886 (three times), 1887;
       third edition, edited by Messrs. Howes and Scott, 1887; re

       printed 1889, 1892, 1898.
"American Addresses." First edition printed 1877; reprinted

       1886.

"Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals," 1877.
"Physiography." First edition, 1877 ; reprinted 1877, 1878, 1879,

         1880, 1881, 1882, 1883, 1884, 1885 (three times), 1887,
         1888, 1890, 1891, 1893, 1897.

"Hume." English Men of Letters Series. First edition printed 1878;

       reprinted 1879 (twice), 1881, 1886, 1887, 1895.

"The Crayfish : an Introduction to the Study of Zoology," 1879.
"Evolution and Ethics." First edition printed 1893; reprinted

        1893 (three times) ; second edition, 1893; third edition, 1893;
        reprinted 1894.
"Introductory Science Primer." First edition printed 1880; re

        printed 1880, 1886, 1888, 1889 (twice), 1893, 1895, 1899.
"Science and Culture, and other Essays." First edition printed

"       1 88 1 ; reprinted 1882,   1888.                        First edition printed 1891 ;
   Social Diseases and Worse      Remedies."

       reprinted, with additions, 1891 (twice).                    Printed
"Essays on some    CoVnotlr.ovIe.rte" dMeQtuheosdtioannsd."     Results."   in 1892.
Collected Essays.                                                             First edition

Vol.1p1r.int"eDd a1rw8i9n3ia; nare."prinFtiersdt  1894, 1898.      1893 ;   reprinted 1894.
                                                  edition printed  edition   printed 1893 ;
Vol. III. "Science and Education." First

        reprinted 1895.                                            First edition printed

Vol. IV. "Science and Hebrew Tradition."

       1893; reprinted 1895, 1898.

460 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Vol. V. "Science and Christian Tradition." First edition printed

Vol.   1894;   reprinted 1895, 1897.                          the   Study of Berkeley."                 First
              Hume, with Helps to
       VI. "

Vol.   edition printed 1894; reprinted                        1897.       printed      for  Macmillan
                                                                 First
       VII. "Man's Place in Nature."

Vol.   VanIdII.Co".  in 1894;     reprinted 1895,                   1897.                  First edition
                     Discourses,    Biological and                  Geological."

Vol.   printed 1894;      reprinted 1896.                          other  Essays."         First edition
       IX. " Evolution      and Ethics and

        printed 1894; reprinted 1895, 1898.                                       ii.  printed 1899,
"Scientific Memoirs," vol. i. printed 1898, vol.

       vols. iii. and iv. to follow.

                          SCIENTIFIC MEMOIRS

"On Hitherto Undescribed Structure in the Human Hair Sheath,"
       a
                                                      i.      (July 1845).
"       Lond. Medical      Gazette, 1340                      of the Blood
   Examination of         the Corpuscles                                               of Amphioxus

       Lanceolatus," Brit. Assoc. Report (1847), pt.                                       ii. ii.  95; Set.

         Mem.

" Description of the Animal of Trigonia," Proc. Zool. Soc. vol. xvii.
              , i.
                                ,
                                             i.
       (1849) 3°-32 a'so >n Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. v. (1850),
        141-143; Sci. Mem.
" On the Anatomy and the Affinities of the Family of the Medusas,"

       Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. (1849),                         pt.  ii.  413 Set.; Mem.              i.
" Notes on Medusae and Polypes,"                                        and Mag.     Nat.
                                                              Ann.                of                Hist.  vi.

        (1850) 66, 67     Sci. Mem.
   Observations sur       Circulation du Sang chez les Mollusques des
"             ,

                             la ;
                                                          i.

        Genres Firole et Atlante." (Extraites d'une lettre adressee                                        a
        M. Milne- Edwards.) Annales des Sciences Naturelles, xiv. (1850),
         193-195 Sci. Mem.
"Observations upon the Anatomy and Physiology of Salpa and
                     ;
                                                   i.

       Pyrosoma," Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. (185 pt. 567-594;                   1),
       also in Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. ix. (1852), 242-244;

         Sci. Mem.
" Remarks upon Appendicularia and Doliolum, two Genera of the
           ii.
       Tunicata," Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. (1851), pt. 595-606; Set.i. i.
                    ii.                                                           ii.
         Mem.         i.                                                               i.

" Zoological Notes and Observations made on board H.M.S. Rattle

       snake during the years 1848-1850," Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.

       vii. ser.        (1851), 304-306, 370-374; vol. viii. 433-442; Sci.

       Mem.

"Observations on the Genus Sagitta," Brit. Assoc. Report (1851),

"  An  pt. 77,        78   (sectional                  transactions); Set. Mem.             Hydrostatic
       Account       of   Researches                    into the Anatomy of the

                                 APPENDIX III                                                                                       461

       Acalephae," Brit. Assoc. Report (July 1851), pt.
                                                                                                                    i. i.           78-80
                                                        Mem.                                                                i. ii.
         (sectional      transactions) Set.             Sponge-like
   Description
                       of New Form of
"                  i.                                                                                    Animal,"   Brit.           Assoc.
                               a
       Report (July 185
                                              1),
                                                           ;

                                                        ii.
                                                                               i.

                                                                                                      ;
                                                 pt.     80 (sectional transactions); Sci.
                                                      of Prof. Miiller into the Anatomy
       Mem.
" Report upon the Researches
       and Development of the Echinoderms," Ann. and Mag. of
       Nat. Hist. ser. ii. vol.                  viii. (1851), 1-19                                       Sci.  Mem.
"                                                 der Diphydae                                         und      Physophoridae,"
   Ueber die Sexualorgane

       Miiller's Archiv. fur Anatomic, Physiologic, und Wissen-
                       Medicin                                                  Sci. Mem.
"       schaftliche    Socialis  (185 1), 380-384.                              to the Anatomy                                      and
   Lacinularia
                                   A Contribution
                   i. i.

                                             :
                                                         a
                                                                            i.
       Physiology of the Rotifera," Trans. Micr. Soc, Lond., new

       series,         (1853), 1-19; (Read December 31, 1851). Sci.

       Mem.

"Upon Animal Individuality," Proc. Roy. Inst.                                                                       (1851-54),
       184-189. (Abstract of Friday evening discourse delivered
       on 30th April 1852.)                  Sci. Mem.
"  On   the Morphology of               the Cephalous                           Mollusca,                       as  Illustrated by

       the Anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda col
       lected during the voyage of H.M.S. Rattlesnake in 1846-
       50," Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. cxliii. (1853), part
                                                                                                                    29-66. Sci.
        Mem.                                                                                             i.
"  Researches      i.                                                                                              i. i. i.
                                            ii.
                       into the Structure of the Ascidians," Brit. Assoc.                                                    ;

"  On  Report (1852), part 76-77.                            Sci. Mem.                                              Veterinorum,"
       the Anatomy and Development                           of Echinococcus

        Proc. Zool. Soc. xx. (1852), 10-126. Sci. Mem.
" On the Identity of Structure of Plants and Animals " Abstract
                                                        1
       of Friday evening discourse delivered at the Royal Institu
       a                                                        i.
                       i.                                         i.
       tion on April 15, 1853; Proc. Roy. Inst.                                                                     (1851-54),
                                                                          i.
       298-302; Edinburgh New Phil. Jour. liii. (1852), 172-177.
       Sci. Mem.
" Observations on the Existence of Cellulose in the Tunic of
       Ascidians," Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci.
       the Development of the Teeth, and                                        1853 Sci. Mem.
"      of Nasmyth's Persistent Capsule,'                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                   i.
                                                                                                                                               i.
   On                                                                            on the                  Nature      and            Import
                                                                                " Quart.                                              Sci.
                           '                                                                             Jour.      Micr.
                                    i.
"       1853. Sci. Mem.
   The Cell-Theory (Review),"                         Brit,  and For.                                    Med.       Chir.       Review,

       xii. (1853), 285-314. Sci. Mem.

"On the Vascular System of the Lower Annulosa," Brit. Assoc.

       Report (1854), part       ii.             p. 109.       Sci. Mem.
       the Common Plan                           Animal      Forms." Abstract of
"  On                            of                                                                      i.                         Friday
                                                                                                                               a

       evening discourse delivered at the Royal Institution on May

       12, 1854.) Proc. Roy. Inst.                                          (1851-54), 444-446. Sci.
        Mem.
" On the Structure and Relation of the Corpuscula Tactus (Tactilei.

462 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

    Corpuscles or Axile Corpuscles) and of the Pacinian Bodies,"

       Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. (1853), 1-7. Sci. Mem.
"On the Ultimate Structure and Relations of the Malpighian Bodies
                     ii.
                                             ii.

                                                                          i.
                                                                                                        i.
       of the Spleen and of the Tonsillar Follicles," Quart. Jour.
        Micr. Sci. (1854), 74-82. Sci. Mem.
"On certain Zoological Arguments commonly adduced in favour of
    the Hypothesis of the Progressive Development of Animal Life

    in Time." (Abstract of Friday evening discourse delivereda

    on April 20, 1855.) Proc. Roy. Inst.                      (1854-58), 82-85.
    Sci. Mem.                                       ii. ii.
                     i.                                                    a
                        ii.
                                                                                  i.
" On Natural History as Knowledge, Discipline, and Power," Roy.

    Inst. Proc.              (1854-58), 187-195. (Abstract of discourse

    delivered on Friday, February 15, 1857.) Sci. Mem.
"On the Present State of Knowledge as to the Structure and

    Functions of Nerve," Proc. Roy. Inst. (1854-58), 432-437.
    (Abstract of discourse delivered on Friday, May 15, 1857.)
                     i.
                         a
          Sci. Mem.
(   Translation) " On Tape and Cystic Worms," von Siebold (1857),

    for the Sydenham Society.                       Victor Carus (1857).
                                                      (Abstract of discourse
'.  Contributions to Icones Zootomicac," by                              a
    On the Phenomena of Gemmation."                                                         ii.
"

    delivered on Friday, May 21, 1858.) Proc. Roy. Inst.
    (1854-58), 534-538 Silliman's Journal, xxviii. (1859), 206-209.
                               ;

    Sci. Mem.        i. i.

"Contributions to the Anatomy of the Brachiopoda," Proc. Roy.

        Soc. vii. (1854-55), 106-117 241, 242. Sci. Mem.                 1 i.
'· On Hermaphrodite and Fissiparous Species of Tubicolar Annelidae

       (Protula Dysteri)," Edin. New Phil. Jour. (1855), 13-129.
                                     ;
                                                                     i.

    Sci. Mem.
" On the Structure of Noctiluca Miliaris," Quart. Jour. Micr. Soc.
    iii. (1855), 49-54- Sci- Mem.
                                     i·
                                                   i.

                                                     ii.
<iOn the Enamel and Dentine of the Teeth," Quart. Jour. Micr.
    Soc. iii. (1855), 127-130. Sci. Mem.
"Memoir on Physalia," Proc. Linn. Soc.
                                                              (1855), 3-5. Sci.

        Mem.i.

" On the Anatomy of Diphyes, and on the Unity of Composition

    of the Diphyidae and Physophoridae, etc.," Proc. Linn. Soc.

            (1855),            Sci. Mem.
" Tegumentary                   The Cyclopedia
    ii.
                                                         i.

                                                          of
                     67-69.                                   Anatomy and Physio
                     Organs,"
    logy, edited by Robert B. Todd, M.D., F.R.S. (The
    fascicules containing this article were published between

        August 1855 and October 1856.) Sci. Mem.                         i.                                 Nat. Hist.

"On the Method of Palaeontology," Ann. and Mag.                               of

       xviii. (1856),        43-54- Sci. Mem.   i.
" Observations on            the Structure and
                                                Affinities    of         Himantopterus,"

    Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xii. (1856), 34- 37. Sci. Mem.                                                  i.

                                 APPENDIX III                                                 463

" Further Observations on the Structure of Appendicula Flabellum
       (Chamisso)," Quart. Jour. Micr. Soc. iv. (1856), 181-191.
        Sci. Mem.
"  Note on the     i.                                   Organs of the Cheilostome      Polyzoa,''

                   Reproductive

"       Quart. Jour.  Micr. Soc. iv. (1856), 191, 192.                             Sci. Mem. i.
   Description of a   New Crustacean (Pygocephalus                              Cooperi, Huxley)

       from the Coal-measures," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xiii. (1857),
                    Sci. Mem. i.
"  On  363-369.    a New Genus                          of  Infusoria,"  Quart. Jour.  Micr. Soc.
        Dysteria,

"       v. (1857), 78-82. Sci. Mem. i.                             :     Ueber die    Entwickelung
   Review of Dr. Hannover's Memoir

       und den Bau des Sdugethierzahns," Quart. Jour. Micr. Soc. v.
                   166-17 1. Sci. Mem.
"       (1857) ,                                            i.                         Ice,"  Phil.
   Letter to      Mr. Tyndall on the
                                                            Structure of Glacier

"       Mag. xiv. (1857), 241-260. Sci. Mem.                             i.     Geol.  Soc.   xiv.
   On Cephalaspis and Pteraspis," Quart.
       (1858) , 267-280. Sci. Mem. i.                                    Jour.

"Observations on the Genus Pteraspis," Brit. Assoc. Report (1858),

                                 Mem.
                                 Plesiosaurus
"      part  ii.  82, 83.  Sci.
                            of
                                             ;

                                                     i.
   On  a New Species                                               (P.   Etheridgii)  from Street,

       near Glastonbury with Remarks on the Structure of the

       Atlas and the Axis Vertebrae and of the Cranium in that

       Genus," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xiv. (1853), 281-94.                                   Sci.

       Mem.
             i.
                                         i. ;
"On the Theory of the Vertebrate Skull," Proc. Roy. Soc. ix.

       (1857-59), 381-457 Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. iii. (1859),
        414-39. Sci. Mem.
·' On the Structure and Motion of Glaciers," Phil. Trans. Roy.

        Soc. cxlvii. (1857), 327-346. (Received and read January
        15, 1857.) Sci. Mem.
   On the Agamic Reproduction and Morphology of Aphis," Trans.
"
            5,

                              ii. ii.
                                                     ii.
       Linn. Soc. xxii. (1858), 193-220, 221-236. (Read November
                                                        ii.
" On      1857.) Sci. Mem.                              Anatomy    of Nautilus  Pompilius,"   Jour.
       Some Points in the

       Linn. Soc. iii. (1859), (Zool.), 36-44. (Read June                                     1858.)
                                                                                       3,

                                                                                                 of
        Sci. Mem.
" On the Persistent Types of Animal Life," Proc. Roy. Inst,
       Great Britain, iii. (1858-62), 151-153. Friday, June 3, 1859.)

         Sci. Mem.
" On the Stagonolepis Robertsoni (Agassiz) of the Elgin Sandstones;

       and on the Recently Discovered Footmarks in the Sandstones

       of Cummingstone," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xv. (1859), 440-
             Sci. Mem.
"  On  460.  Amphibian     3,                                      Remains            South Africa
       Some                     ii.

                                                                   ii.
                           and                          Reptilian               from

       and Australia," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xv. (1859), 642-649.
       (Read March         1859.) Sci. Mem.

464 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

" On a New Species of Dicynodon (D. Murrayi) from near Coles
       berg, South Africa ; and on the Structure of the Skull in the

       Dicynodonts," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xv. (1859), 649-658.
       (Read March 23, 1859.) Sci.       Mem.
       Rhamphorhynchus Bucklandi,           Pterosaurian
"  On  a                                                                                 from                       the       Stones
                                           a
                                                ii.

                                                                     a
                                                                         ii. ii.
       field Slate," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xv. (1859), 658-670.
       (Read March 23, 1859.) Sci.       Mem.
"  On       Fossil Bird and Fossil       Cetacean                                 from     New Zealand,"

       Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xv. (1859), 670-677. (Read March
                      Sci. Mem.
"  On  23,  1859.)                 Crocodilus                      Hastingsiae,"                                    Quart. Jour.
       the  Dermal    Armour of

       Geol. Soc. xv. (1859), 678-680. (Read March 23, 1859.)
        Sci. Mem.
" British Fossils," part
       J.

            I.
                     ii.

                                  ii. i.

                                  I.
                                                      ii. of
                           " On the Anatomy and Affinities of the

       Genus Pterygotus," Mem. Geol. Sur. United Kingdom, Mono

"       graph (1859),      1-36".      Sci. Mem.                   the            Species    of Pterygotus,"
   British Fossils," part          Description of

       by W. Salter, F.G.S., A.L.S., Mem. Geol. Sur. of United
        Kingdom, Monograph         (1859), 37-105.                                Sci. Mem.
" On Dasyceps Bucklandi             (Labyrinthodon                                Bucklandi,                             ii.

                                                                                                                         Lloyd),"

       Mem. Geol. Sur. of United Kingdom (1859), 52-56.                                                                       Sci.

         Mem.

" On Fragment of
       a
                  ii.

                                     a
                                         ii.

                                                                a
                           Lower Jaw of                            Large Labyrinthodont from

       Cubbington," Mem. Geol. Sur. of United Kingdom (1859),

"        56-57. Sci.  Mem.             of Some                                    Parts  of                         the  Skeleton
   Observations on    the Development

       of Fishes," Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. vii. (1859), 33-46. Sci.ii.
        Mem.
" On the Dermal Armour of Jacare and Caiman, with Notes on the
       Specific and Generic Characters of Recent Crocodilia," Jour.
       Linn. Soc. iv. (1860), (Zool.), 1-28. (Read February 15, 1859.)

         Sci. Mem.

" On the Anatomy and Development of Pyrosoma," Trans. Linn.
            ii.
                   ii.

                                                                                                                1,
       Soc. xxiii. (1862), 193-250. (Read December 1859.) Sci.

         Mem.

"On the Oceanic Hydrozoa," Ray Soc. (1859).
"On Species and Races, and Their Origin" (1860), Proc. Roy.

       Inst. iii. (1858-62), 195-200; Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. v.
       a 8,
                      1.)
                                                       ii.

                                                                                              ii.
                                                                                                    ii.
        (1860), 344-346. Sci. Mem.

"On the Structure of the Mouth and Pharynx of the Scorpion,"
                      Micr. Sci. viii. (1860), 250-254.
"  On  Quart. Jour.    of the Earliest Stages of the                                       Sci. Mem.                          of
        the Nature                                                                       Development

       Animals," Proc. Roy. Inst. iii. (1858-62), 315-317. (February
       186 Sci. Mem. ii.
" On   New Species of Macrauchenia (M. Boliviensis)," Quart.

       Jour. Geol. Soc. xvii. (1861), 73-84. Sci. Mem.

                                                   APPENDIX III                                            46S

" On Pteraspis Dunensis (Archaeoteuthis Dunensis, Romer)," Quart.
                                  xvii.            (1861), 163-166. Sci. Mem.
       Jour. Geol. Soc.          upon              the Systematic Arrangement of the
"  Preliminary Essay                                                ii.                               Fishes
                                                                        ii. ii.
       of the                  Devonian Epoch," Mem.         Geol. Sur.                           United King
       dom, "                 Figures and Descriptions       of British Organic Remains "ii.

"      (186 Decade x), 41-46. Sci. Mem.1, 1,                                      of
                               Kinnairdi," Mem. Geol. Sur. of United                              Kingdom,
   Glyp"toFlaigeumruess       and Descriptions of British and Organic                          ii.Remains "

"      (1861, Decade x), 41-56. Sci.                         Mem.
                                 Andersoni," Mem.               Geol. Sur. of United King
   Phadnoemr,op"leFuigrounres     and Descriptions
                                                             of British Organic Remains "

"  On  (186 Dec. x), 47-49.                        Sci.    Mem.     with    the  Lower            Animals,"
       the Zoological Relations                            Man
                                                    of

       Nat. Hist. Rev. (1861), 67-84. Sci. Mem.

"On the Brain of Ateles Paniscus," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1861), 247-

       260. Sci. Mem.                      7, ii.
"On Fossil Remains of Man," Proc. Roy. Inst. (1858-62), 420-

       422. (February                              1862.) Sci. Mem.         ii.
                                                                                            ii.
                                                                                                               ii.
"Anniversary Address to the Geological Society, 1862," Quart. Jour.
       Geol. Soc. xviii. (1862), xl.-liv. See also in list of Essays,

"  On  "Geological              Contemporaneity, etc."                  Sci. Mem.                 Coal-field,"
        the New               Labyrinthodonts from the                    Edinburgh

"  On  Quart. Jour.              Geol. Soc. xviii. (1862), 291-296. Sci. Mem.
                                  Crustacean from the Carboniferous Strata near
           Stalk-eyed
       a
                  ii.
       Paisley," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xviii. (1862), 420-422. Sci.
        Mem.

" On the Premolar Teeth of Diprotodon, and on New Species of
                                                             ii.
                                                                                          a
       that Genus (D. Australis)," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xviii.
       (1862) 422-427. Sci. Mem.
"  Description of New Specimen,

                              a                              of Glyptodon        recently           acquired

       by the Royal College of Surgeons," Proc. Roy. Soc. xii. (1862-
        63), 316-326. Sci. Mem. ii.
"  Letter on the Human Remains found                                in  Shell-mounds"               (June  28,

        1862), Trans. Ethn. Soc.                           (1863), 265-266.                   Sci. Mem.
   Description of Anthracosaurus                            Russelli, New                    Labyrinthodont
"                                                    ii.                a
                                                        ii.                                                 ii.

       from the Lanarkshire Coal-field," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xix.
                                           Sci. Mem.
       (1863) 56-68.                       Vertebrate
           Collection of
"  On  a                                                   Fossils  from    the              Panchet  Rocks,
                    ,

                                        ;
       Ranigunj, Bengal," Mem. Geol. Sur. India Palaeontologica
                                                                        of       ;

                                                                                     i.
"      Indica, ser. iv. Indian Pretertiary Vertebrata,                                            (1865-85).
   Further Remarks upon the Human Remains from the                                                Neanderthal,"

       Nat.            Hist. Rev. (1864), 429-446. Sci. Mem.                                 ii.
" On the                Angwantibo (Arctocebus Calabarenis,
                                                                                             Gray) of Old

       Calabar," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1864), 314-335. Sci. Mem.                                          ii.
                                                                                                               a
"On the Cetacean Fossils termed 'Ziphius' by Cuvier, with

        Notice of             a  New Species (Belemnoziphius Compressus) from
                                                                                                           H
       VOL. II                                                                                    2

466 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

       the Red Crag," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xx. (1864), 388-

"  On  396-              of  the   Belemnitidae,"     Mem. Geol. Sur. of United
       the Structure
       Kingdom, Monograph II. (1864).
"The Crocodilian Remains found in the Elgin Sandstones, with

       Remarks, etc." Mem. Geol. Sur. of United Kingdom, Monograph

        111.(1877).

"On the Osteology of the Genus Glyptodon" (1864), Phil. Trans.

"  On  Roy.   Soc. civ.  (1865), 31-70.      in Desmodus Rufus," Proc. Zool.
       the   Structure   of the Stomach

        Soc. (1865), 386-390.

"On the Methods and Results of Ethnology" (1865), Proc. Roy.

"  On  Inst. iv. (1866),     460-463.     See also    Collected Essays, vii.
         Two Extreme           Forms   of Human         Crania," Anthropological

"       Review,  iv. (1866), 404-406.              from  the  Jarrow Colliery,
   Description    of Vertebrate Remains

"  On  Kilkenny, Ireland," Geol.        Mag. iii. (1866), 165-171.                            Storm
       some Remains of Large           Dinosaurian Reptiles from the

       berg Mountains, South Africa," Phil. Mag. xxxii. (1866), 474-
       475 , Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxiii. (1867), 1-6.
"On a New Specimen of Telerpeton Elginense" (1866), Quart.
                    Soc. xxiii. (1867), 77-84.
"      Jour. Geol.  Human Remains of Caithness             "  (1866),                     in  the Pre
   Notes on the

"  On  historic Remains of Caithness, by S.        Laing.     Human                       Cranium,"
        Two Widely Contrasted Forms                of the

      Jour. Anat. and Phys. i. (1867), 60-77.
"On Acanthopholis Horridus, a New Reptile from the Chalk-

"  On  Marl," Geol. Mag.      iv.   (1867),   65-67.  the Taxonomic                           Value  of
       the Classification          Birds ;   and on
                             of

       the Modifications of certain of the Cranial Bones observable

"  On  in that Class," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1867), 415-472.      between                         Birds
       the Animals which are most nearly Intermediate

       and Reptiles," Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist.             (1868), 66-75.
                             ii.
                                                                               ii.

                                                                                      in
"On Saurosternon Bainii and Pristerodon M'Kayi, two New Fossil

       Lacertilian Reptiles from South Africa," Geol. Mag. v. (1868),

        201-205.
"Reply to Objections on my Classification of Birds," Ibis, iv.

"  On  (1868), 357-362.                among  the Patagonians and Fuegians,
       the Form of the Cranium

       with some Remarks upon American Crania in general," Jour.
       Anat.   and Phys.     (1868),
"  On    some    Organisms   living    253-271.       Depths                              the North
                                       at Great

       Atlantic Ocean," Quart. Jour. Micr. Sci. viii. (1868), 203-

         212.
" Remarks upon Archaeopteryx Lithographica," Proc. Roy. Soc. xvi.

       (1868), 243-248.

                              APPENDIX III                                                                467

" On the Classification and Distribution of the Alectoromorphae and
        Heteromorphae," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1868), 294-319.

"On Hyperodapedon," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxv. (1869), 138-152.

" On a New Labyrinthodont (Pholiderpeton Scutigerum) from

"  On  Bradford,"  Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxv (1869),            309-310.                                xxv.
       the Upper   Jaw of Megalosaurus," Quart. Jour.             Geol. Soc.

"       (1869), 311-314.          of  Paleontology."  (Written earlier as the
   Principles and Methods

       Introduction to the Collection of Fossils at Jermyn Street.)
       Smithsonian Report    (1869),
"  On   the Representatives    of the  363-388.      and    the   Incus  of                               Mam
                                       Malleus

       malia in the Other Vertebrata," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1869), 391-407.
"Address to the Geological Society, 1869," Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc.
        xxv.    (1869), 28-53.
" Further       Observations on Hyperodapedon,"       Quart. Jour.       Geol.                            Soc.

"  On  xliii.    (1887), 675-693.           of India."      (Opening Address
       the      Ethnology and Archaeology

       of the President, March 9, 1869.) Jour. Ethn. Soc. of London, i.
       (1869), 89-93.        (Delivered March 9, 1869.)
"  On  the Ethnology      and Archaeology of North America."      (Address of

       the President, April 13, 1869.) Jour. Ethn. Soc. of London, i.
       (1869) , 218-221.
"  On   Hypsilophodon     Foxii, a New Dinosaurian          from  the Wealden

       of the Isle of Wight" (1869), Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxvi. (1870),

"        3-12.  Evidence  of the  Affinity  between   the Dinosaurian Reptiles
   Further

        and     Birds" (1869), Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxvi. (1870),                                      12-31.
" On the        Classification of the Dinosauria, with Observations                                       on the

       Dinosauria of the Trias" (1869), Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. xxvi.

"  On  (1870) , 32-50.       Distribution   of  the Chief         Modifications                           of
        the Geographical

       Mankind," Jour. Ethn. Soc. of London, new series, (1870),
       of a
"  On  404-412. (June          1870.)       Ethn.     Soc.  of London, ii. (1890),
       the Ethnology of                    7,
                                                                                          aBritain, "Jour.

                                                                                                     ii.
"  On  382-384.     (Delivered May 10,      1870.)          with  Note on its
            New  Labyrinthodont from        Bradford,

       Locality and Stratigraphical Position." By Louis C. Miall.

       Phil. Mag. xxxix. (1870), 385.

"Anniversary Address to Geological Society, 1870," Quart. Jour.
       Geol. Soc. xxvi. (1870), 29-64. {Paleontology and the Doctrine
                          Collected Essays, viii. 340.
           Evolution),    British Association at Liverpool,"      Brit.                                   Assoc.
" Address to the

        Report, xl. (1870), 73-89. Collected Essays, viii.

"On the Milk Dentition of Palaeotherium Magnum," Geol. Mag.

       vii. (1870), 153-i55-

462 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

"Triassic Dinosauria," Nature, i. (1870), 23-24.
"On the Maxilla of Megalosaurus," Phil. Mag. xxxix. (1870), 385-

"  On  386.  Relations  of  Penicillium,  Torula,    and  Bacterium,"           Quart.
       the

"      Jour. Micr. Sci. x.  (1870), 355-362.     from     the  Jarrow Colliery,
   On a Collection of       Fossil Vertebrata

       County of Kilkenny, Ireland," Trans. Royal Irish Academy,

       xxiv. (1871), 351-370.
"Yeast,"     Contemporary Review, December 187 1.
" Note on    the Development of the Columella Auris            in  the  Amphibia,"

       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1874 (sect.), 141-142 ; Nature, xi. (1875),

"  On  68-69.           of  the  Skull  and of  the  Heart  of     Menobranchus
       the Structure

"       Lateralis," Proc.   Zool. Soc. (1874), 186-204.        and  its     History,"
   On the Hypothesis        that Animals are Automata,

"       Nature, x. (1874), 362-366.       and   Skull  of Amphioxus         Lanceo
   Preliminary Note upon the Brain

"  On  latus" (1874), Proc. Roy. Soc. xxiii.     (1875).           Dura     upon  the
       the Bearing of the Distribution of        the Portia

       Morphology of the Skull" (1874), Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. ii.

       (1876), 348-349-

"On the Classification of the Animal Kingdom" (1874), Journ.
       Linn. Soc. (Zool.) xii. (1876), 199-226.

"On the Recent Work of the Challenger Expedition, and its

       Bearing on Geological Problems," Proc. Roy. Inst. vii. (1875),

"  On  354-357-         Robertsoni, and on the Evolution of the Croco
       Stagonolepis

       dilia," Quart.   Jour. Geol. Soc.   xxxi. (1875),  --42N3o-.4318. .  On  Cera-
"Contributions to        Morphology.      Ichthyopsida.

       dotus Forsteri, with Observations on the Classification of

"  On  Fishes," Proc.     Zool.  Soc. (1876), 24-59.           in   Lepidosiren,"
       the Position     of the   Anterior Nasal Apertures

       Proc. Zool. Soc. (1876), 1 80- 1 8 1.
" On the Nature of the Cranio-Facial Apparatus of Petromyzon,"

"      Jour. Anat. and      Phys. x. (1876),    412-429.                    Animals,"
   On the Evidence as       to the Origin of    Existing Vertebrate

       Nature, xiii. (1876), 388-389, 410-412, 429-430, 467-469,

        514-516; xiv. (1876), 33-34.

"The Border Territory between the Animal and the Vege

       table Kingdoms" (1876), Proc. Roy. Inst. viii. (1879),

"  On  28-34.     of    Biology,"  Nature,  xv.  (1877), 219-224 ; American
       the Study

       Naturalist, xi. (1877), 210-221.
"On the Geological History of Birds" (March 2, 1877), Proc. Roy.
        Inst.  viii. 347.
"  Address     to the Anthropological     Department of the British Associa

                            APPENDIX III                                                                469

        tion, Dublin, 1878. Informal Remarks on the Conclusions of
        Anthropology," Brit. Assoc. Report, 1878, 573-578.
"   On  the Classification and the Distribution of the Crayfishes,"                                     Proc.

"   On  Zool. Soc. (1878), 752-788.            Microscopes     "  (1878),                           Journ.
        a New Arrangement for Dissecting
        Quekett Micr. Club, v. (1878-79), 144-145.
"William         Harvey" (1878),    Proc. Roy. Inst. viii. (1879), 485-500.
" On the        Characters of the   Pelvis in the Mammalia, and the Con

        clusions respecting the Origin of Mammals which may be based

"   On  on them," Proc. Roy. Soc.   xxviii. (1879), 395-405.               attributed
        Certain Errors respecting   the Structure of the Heart,
        to Aristotle " (1879), Nature, xxi. (1880), 1-5. See also Science
        and Culture.
" Sensation and the Unity of Structure of Sensiferous Organs " (1879),

        Proc. Roy. Inst. ix. (1882), 1 15-124. See also Collected Essays,

        vi.
" On the Epipubis in the Dog and Fox," Proc. Roy. Soc. xxx. (1880),

" On    162-163.      and   Dental  Characters  of    the  Canidae,"   Proc. Zool.
        the Cranial

          Soc.  (1880), 238-288.    Laws  of  Evolution    to the Arrangement
                Application of the
" On the

        of the Vertebrata, and more particularly of the Mammalia,"

"        Proc. Zool. Soc.  (1880), 649-662.    Species     '"  ( 1 880), Proc.                          Roy.
    The Coming of Age      of ' The Origin of

        Inst. ix. (1882), 361-368. See also Collected Essays,
"The Herring," Nature, xxiii. (1881), 607-613.A
"Address to the International Medical Congress,                London,                              1881. --
                                                      ;
                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                 ii.
        The Connection of the Biological Sciences with Medicine,"

       Nature, xxiv. (1881), 342-346.

"The Rise and Progress of Paleontology," Nature, xxiv. (1881),

"    452-455-
    Contribution to the Pathology of the Epidemic known as the

        'Salmon Disease'" (February 21, 1882), Proc. Roy. Soc. xxxiii.

       (1882), 381-389.

"On the Respiratory Organs of Apteryx," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1882),

" On    560-569.      in  Relation  to the    Salmon  Disease,"        Quart.                         Jour.
        Saprolegnia

       Micr. Sci.  xxii.   (1882), 311-333.                    -- No.  2.                           On  the
"Contributions      to    Morphology. Ichthyopsida.

        Oviducts of Osmerus with Remarks on the Relations of the

        Teleostean with the Ganoid Fishes," Proc. Zool. Soc. (1883),

         132-139.
"Oysters and the Oyster Question" (1883), Proc. Roy. Inst. x.

"        (1884),  336-358-  the  Fossil   Remains of           Chelonian Reptile,
    Preliminary    Note on

        Ceratochelys Sthenurus, from Lord Howe's Island, Australia,"

47o LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLE Y

   Proc. Roy. Soc. xlvi. (1887), 232-238.                                                                        (Read    March 31,
                                                                                                                 1887),  Jour. Linn.
"        1887.)  :  Notes and Queries " (April                                                               7,
   The Gentians

   Soc. (Botany), xxiv. (1888), 101-124.

                        APPENDIX IV1

            HONOURS, DEGREES, SOCIETIES, Etc.

                                     Order

   Norwegian Order of the North Star, 1873.

                        Degrees, Etc.

OCaxmfobrrdid--geH--on.HoDn..C.LLL. .D18.851.879.
                 Rede Lecturer, 1883.
London  --  First M.B. and Gold Medal,                                                                1845.

            Examiner in Physiology and Comparative Anatomy, 1857-
                Member  LoLf .SDe.nat1e8,661. 883.
Edinburgh-- Hon.
Aberdeen -- Lord Rector, 1872.
Dublin-- Hon. LL.D. 1878.
WEBBrorulelaorsnzglbagnuuea--rng------HHoHoHnono.n.n..PMhMM..DD..D.D. ..a1n181d8889883.M2...A. 1861.

                               Societies -- London

Royal, 1 85 1 ; Sec. 1872-81; Pres. 1883-85; Royal Society's
        Medal, 1852; Copley Medal, 1888; Darwin Medal, 1894.

Linnean, 1858; Linnean Medal, 1890.
Geological, 1856; Sec. 1859-62; Pres. 1869-70; Wollaston Medal,

          1876.
Zoological, 1856.
Odontological, 1863.
Ethnological, 1863; Pres. 1868-70.
Anthropological Institute, 1870.
Medico-Chirurgical, Hon. Memb. 1868.
Medical, Hon. Memb. 1873.
Literary, 1883.

    * This list has been compiled from such diplomas and letters as I found in

my father's possession.

       APPENDIX IV                                    47»

Pharmaceutical, Silver Medal for Botany, 1842.
Royal College of Surgeons, Member, 1862; Fellow, 1883; Hun-

         terian Professor, 1863-69.
St. Thomas's Hospital, Lecturer in Comparative Anatomy, 1854.
British Association for the Advancement of Science, Pres. 1870 ;

        Pres. of Section D, 1866.

Royal Institution, Fullerian Lecturer, 1863-67.
British Museum, Trustee, 1888.

           Societies --Provincial, Colonial and Indian

Dublin University Zoological and Botanical Association ; Corr.
        Member, 1859.

Liverpool Literary and Philosophic Society, Hon. Memb. 1870.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, Hon. Memb. 1872.
Odontological Society of Great Britain, 1862.
Royal Irish Academy, Hon. Memb. 1874.
Historical Society of Lancashire and Cheshire, Hon. Memb. 1875-
Royal Society of Edinburgh, British Hon. Fellow, 1876.
Glasgow Philosophical Society, Hon. Memb. 1876.
Literary and Antiquarian Society of Perth, Hon. Memb. 1876.
Cambridge Philosophical Society, Hon. Memb. 1871.
Hertfordshire Natural History Society, Hon. Memb. 1883.
Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland, Hon. Memb. 1886.
New Zealand Institute, Hon. Memb. 1872.
Royal Society of New South Wales, Hon. Memb. 1879, Clarke

        Medal, 1880.

                                  Foreign Societies

International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archaeology,
        Corr. Memb. 1867.

International Geological Congress (Pres.) 1888.

       America

Academy of the Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Corr. Memb. 1859.
Odontographic Society of Pennsylvania, Hon. Memb. 1865.

American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia, 1869.
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, Hon. Memb. 1873.

New York Academy of Sciences, Hon. Memb. 1876.
Boston Society of Natural History, Hon. Memb. 1877.
National Academy of Sciences of the U.S.A., Foreign Associate,

         1883.                          Foreign Hon.  Memb.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences,

1883.

472 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

                      Austria-Hungary

Konigliche Kaiserliche Geologische Reichsanstalt (Vienna),  Corr.
        Memb. 1860.

K.K. Zoologische-botanische Gesellschaft in Wien, 1865.

                                                Belgium
Academie Royale de Medecine de Belgique, 1874.
Societe Geologique de Belgique, Hon. Memb. 1877.
Societe d' Anthropologic de Bruxelles, Hon. Memb. 1884.

                                        Brazil

Gabineta Portuguez de Leitura em Pernambuco, Corr. Memb. 1879.

                                               Denmark
Royal Society of Copenhagen, Fellow, 1876.

                                             Egypt
Institut Egyptien (Alexandria), Hon. Memb. 1861.

                      France

Societe Imperiale des Sciences Naturelles de Cherbourg, Corr.

        Memb. 1867.   " Correspondant " in  the  section  of Physiology
Institut de France ;

(succeeding von Baer), 1879.

                                                     Germany

Microscopical Society of Giessen, Hon. Memb. 1857.
Imperialis Academia Caesariana Naturae Curiosorum (Dresden),

         1857.
Imperial Literary and Scientific Academy of Germany, 1858.
Royal Society of Sciences in Gottingen, Corr. Memb. 1862.

Royal Bavarian Academy of Literature and Science (Munich), For.
        Memb. 1863.

Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences (Berlin), 1865.
Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft zu Jena, For. Hon.

        Memb. 1868.
Geographical Society of Berlin, For. Memb. 1869.
Deutscher Fischerei-Verein, Corr. Memb. 1870.

APPENDIX IV                                                   473

Berliner Gesellschaft fur Anthropologic, Ethnologie, und      Urge-
        schichte, Corr. Memb. 187 1.                          a/M.)

Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle, 1879.
Senkenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Frankfurt

        Corr. Memb. 1892.

                                           Holland

Dutch Society of Sciences (Haarlem), For. Memb. 1877.
Koninklyke Natuurkundige Vereenigung in Nederlandisch- Indie

        (Batavia), Corr. Memb. 1880.
Royal Academy of Sciences (Amsterdam), For. Memb. 1892.

                                              Italy

Società Italiana di Anthropologia e di Etnologia, Hon. Memb. 1872.
Academia de' Lincei di Roma, For. Memb. (supplementary), 1878,

        ordinary, 1883.
Reale Academia Valdarnense del Poggio (Florence), Corr. Memb.

         1883.
Società dei Naturalisti in Modena, Hon. Memb. 1886.
Società Italiana delle Scienze (Naples), For. Memb. 1892.
Academia Scientiarum Instituti Bononiensis (Bologna), Corr. Memb.

         1893.
                                               Portugal

Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa, For. Corr. Memb. 1874.

                                                 Russia

Imperial Academy of Sciences (St. Petersburg), Corr. Memb. 1865.
Societas Caesarea Naturae Curiosorum (Moscow), ordinary member,

        1870, Hon. Memb. 1887.

                                                      Sweden
Societas Medicorum Svecana, Ordinary Memb. 1866.

                   ROYAL COMMISSIONS

     T. H. Huxley served on the following Royal or other

Commissions :--

     1. Royal Commission on the Operation of Acts relating to
                Trawling for Herrings on the Coast of Scotland, 1862.

      2. Royal Commission to inquire into the Sea Fisheries of the
                United Kingdom, 1864-65.

474 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

     3. Commission on the Royal College of Science for Ireland,

                   1866.

     4. Commission on Science and Art Instruction in Ireland,

                   1868.
      5. Royal Commission upon the Administration and Operation

              of the Contagious Diseases Acts, 1870-71.
      6. Royal Commission on Scientific Instruction and the Advance

              ment of Science, 1870-75.
     7. Royal Commission on the Practice of subjecting Live

                Animals to Experiments for Scientific Purposes, 1876.
     8. Royal Commission to inquire into the Universities of Scot

                  land, 1876-78.
      9. Royal Commission on the Medical Acts, 1881-82.
    10. Royal Commission on Trawl, Net, and Beam Trawl Fishing,

                   1884.

                                                 INDEX

A priori reasoning,            ii.210,                                    Amroth,
Abbott. Dr. E. A.,                                       ii.on
                                          2"7Il9l,us3i8o3,ns3"8;4                          i.      140.
                                                                                                  i.
                                                                          Anglesey, Marquis of, at Wellington's

       correspondence in Times,                               280                     funeral, 102
                                                                          Angus, Dr., on School Board, 367.
       sqq.                                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                                         i.
Aberdeen University, Huxley rejected                                      Animal motion, lecture on, 165.
       for chair at, 79, 107 Lord Rector
                    i.                                                    A"nAimniamlsalsanads       plants, 248.i.
                                 i.                                                                  Automata,"
       of, 417-                                                                                                        409,    411    sq.
         i.                          ;                                                                       i.                          ;; ;
              i.                             ;

                                                  ;
Rectorial Address at, 436 sq. trans                                                   delivered without notes, 444.
       lated into German, 438 perils of                                   Anthropological Institute founded, 284.
       writing, 484.                                                                                                           i. i.
Aberdour,                                                                 Anthropological Society amalgamated

                    166.                                                              with Ethnological,     263 274
Adamson, Professor,                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                              i.

                                                                                                                         i. ;
                                        536 sq.                           Anthropologic, Societe d', of Paris, 273,
                               i.
                                            i.
                                                        i.
                                                                 ; i.
Addresses delivered under difficulties,                                               274

        413, 466                                                          Anthropomorphism,                  258.
"Administrative Nihilism," 357, 368
Admiralty, parsimony of, in 1846, 31                                      Ape question, at Oxford,                             192-204

        their dealings with Huxley, 54, 56,                                           papers and lectures on. 190 sq.
                                                                                      Punch squib, 191, 200 at Edin
                                                                                                         ;
       58, 60 sq., 71-5, 100, 118                                                                                ;

                                                                                                                            ;
Advice to would-be writer on scientific                                               burgh, 207 sq. leads to ethnologi
                                                                                      cal work, 212 sq. conclusion of,

       subjects,
       ;                  393                                                      214.
                   i. ii.
                                                                          "Apologetic Irenicon,"
                                          ii.
                                                 ii. i.
                                                        i.
                                                           i. ;

                                                                    i. ;
Agassiz. Alexander, at x Club,                                279                                            ii.    300 sq,
                                                                                                                  i.
       visit to, 497.                                                     Appletons, and copyright,                        305 visit
                                                                                                                               ;

Agassiz, Louis, and creation, 181 on                                                  to, 494.
       glaciers, 440.                                                     Arbitration Alliance, letter to, on the

Agnosticism, formulated in i860, 233                                                  reduction of armaments and the

       sq. controversy on,                       221-30;                         real causes of war, ii. 374
                                                                          Archetvpe reviewed by H. Spencer,
         restated,  B2.,96P.sRq..S.,                                                                                           ;
                                          54.                                         161                                                 i.
Airy, Sir G.
Albert, Prince, at British Association,
                                                                          Argyll, Duke of, in Metaphysical Society,
         155                                                                       338; on "Law," ii. 168 reply
Alcohol, use of, ii. 247.
Alford, Dean, and Metaphysical Society,                                           to, 168; on coral reef theories,
                                                                                      i. i.
                                                                                             ;;168-70; further controversy with,

             314ii. '·George J.,          on     Huxley's                          288.          ;,                            i i.
Allman, Dr.6.                                                             Aristotle compared with Darwin, 515
                                                                                                                                          i. ; ;
       leading discovery, 40 131 Pre                                             certain errors attributed to, ii. sq.
       sident British Association, 1879,                                        estimate of the MSS. of, ib.
                            ; i.          ;      ;                        Armstrong, Sir Alexander, at Haslar,
                                 i. ; i.     ;
America,         visit to,              493-502 sight of                           24
        New       York,     494      ;       at Yale, ib.                 Armstrong,                 Lord, visits to,  i.      302, 460,
                                                                   ;;
       friends, 494-98 at Niagara, 498                                             479             and a Newcastle society,       ii.  66.
                                                                          Arnold,          M. letters to-- a lost umbrella,
       visits his sister, 498             at Baltimore,
       ib. lectures at New              York, 501 sq.                                 311 57. Paul and Protestantism,
       ;

American         C"iviElmWanacri,pation2,71  ;    suggests                            353 on death of his son, 398.
        article                               Black and
                                                                          Arolla, first visit to,            146 sq. second
                                                                                                          ii.
                                                                                                                           ;

       White," 283.                                                                   visit to, 169 sq.

476 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Aryans, origin of,,             286.                                      at Edinburgh lectures, 477 regime
Ascidians, new species of,ii.                       62 Doli-              for health, 479 arrangements for         ;;
                                           ; i.                                                             ;             ;
                                                     ;                    the Encyclopaedia, 449 articles for ;

                                                         ;
olum and Appendicularia, 82 on
the structure of, 82 catalogue                                                                                 450 - 55 work on
                                                                          Encyclopaedia,
                                                                          Dick Swiveller's principle, 484
of, 148                                                                                                                              ;

Ashby, Mr., on sanitary work,                i. i. i. ii.73.              handwriting, 484 puts aside a sub
                                                        i.                ject when done with, 451, 453; a
Ashley, Hon. E. Vivisection Bill, 469.
Atavism, defence of the word, 220.                                        Balaam-Centaur, 452 Dean Stan
Athanasian Creed, anecdote, 505.                                          ley's handwriting,                       ;           articles
                                                                          between H and L,                               ;;   sons-in-
Atheism logically untenable, 241, 412                        ;                                                     453
                                                                                                                   454
                                                                          law, 454 Biology contrasted with
ii.  162                                                                  Criticism, etc., 452 reports of hisi. ;
                                                                          American trip, 502 Harvey article,
Athenreum Club, elected to, 161.                i.                                                             ;;
Augustan epoch to be beaten by an

English epoch, 171.                                                                520.
Automatism, Darwin suggests he should;                                    Beale, Professor, 182, 183
                         i. i.                                            Beaufort, Sir F. Hydrographer),i. ( i.
review himself on, 38             ii.                                                                                           assist

Auvergne, trip in,                420 sqq. glacia-                               ance from, 56, 58, 72, 73
                                                    ;                     Beaumont, Elie de, contradicted by

tion in, 422 prehistoric skeleton at
Le Puy, 423.                                                                     nature, 373
                                                                          Belemnites, on, 473, 483
                                                                          Bell, Thomas, ready to help,i.

Babbage, calculating machine, and the                                                                                    i.   60, 62,
                                                                                                                             ;
theory of induction, ii. 278 sq.                                          81 as man of science, 102 writes;
                                                                          official statement on the award of
Bacon, influence of,            ii. i. i.320 character,
                                             ;

       ii. 15.                                                            Royal Society Medal to Huxley,
"Baconian Induction," criticism of,
                                                             ; i.         103 233
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                                                i.
                                                                                                                                            ;
485 sq. Spedding on, 521-23.                                              Bence Jones, Dr., kindness of,                        242
Baer, von, influence of,,
          ;                                i.   103, 163                  would make the Fullerian Professor
                                              ;
his Copley Medal, 302 his work,                                           ship permanent, 314 friendly con
>', 39                                                                           spiracy, 400
Bailey, F. at Lynton,                                                     Bennett, Risdon,          sq.        F. R.S.,  ii.
                                           45.                                                      and                       110
                                                                          Bentham, G., at x Club, 279.
Baillon, led to make fresh observations                                   Benvenuto Cellini, ii. 92.             i.
                                                                          Berkeley, 262 proposed book
through Huxley's gentian paper, ii.                                                                                             on, ii.

201                                                                                 i.
Bain, Professor A., 258, 407                                                                   ;
                  i.                                                      86.                           ,
                      i.
Balaam-Centaur,   Hon.48A6..,                                             Berkeley, Rev. W. F. mycological work,
Balfour, Right
                                           critique    on   his                      331 'q-'·
                                                                          Besant, Mrs., exclusion from University
Foundations of Belief,                       ii.    395-400
                                                     ;
                                                                  i. ; ;
Balfour, Francis, death of, ii. 40 obitu                                  College,           , ii.  61.
                                                                          Besant, Sir W. Huxley's face, ii. 435 n.
ary, 64 likeness to Huxley, 40
            ;

       looked to as his successor, 41                                     Bible-reading in elementary schools,                       i. i.
       opinion of, 420.
Ball, John, with Huxley at Belfast,                                              339, 342-46, ii. 9, 299
                                                                          Biological teaching, revolutionised,
         413 sq-
                                                                                 405 sqq. Darwin on, 410.
Ball, W. Piatt, letter to--criticises his                                 Biology, on the study of, 503.
                                                                          Birds, distention of air-cells in flight,
Use and Disuse advice as to future                                                  i.                                               i.
          i.                                                                               ;; ;
work, ii. 283.            i. i. :
                                                                                                ;
                                       i.                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                   i.
Baptism,    240.                             211.                         230 sq. investigations into the
"Barriers,                                                                structure of, 244 classification of,
            The Three,"                                                   285, 286 toothed, proposed lecture
                                                                          on, 503 geological history of,
Barry, Bishop, on Huxley's work on the

       School Board, 340, 350                                                     507.                                        i.   294,
Bastian, Dr. H. Charlton, on spontane                                     Birds and reptiles, relations of,                      i.

       ous generation,          331,         333            On                    3°2. 337                                           4,
Bateson, Mr., letter                       his book                       Birmingham, address on Priestley,
                                to --

Variation returns from speculation                                               408 opens Mason College, ii. 14.
to fact natura facit saltum,                                              Blackie, Professor, goes with, to Skelton's,
            i. :                                             ii.          i.
                                                                                 ;
372                                                                                    512.
Bathybius,        317 sq. ii. sq. 160 not                                 Blaythwayt,        R.,        "The Uses of Senti
                          5              ;5     ,      ;
                             ,                    ;
accepted in connection with Darwin's                                      ment," ii. 434.
                               5                "eating the
slepeekcu"laatbioonust,,              n.                                  Body,              machine of the nature of an
                                sq.                                              ''
                                                                                     i. a

                                                                                              ii.
Baynes, Thomas Spencer, letters to--                                      army,"                   35.

                                                                          Bollaert, 217.

Aberdeen Address,                          438 parsons                    Book, a good, and fools, 300
                                  i.                                                                             i.

                                                                   INDEX                                                                      477

Booth, General, "Darkest England"                                              Brooks, Mr. and Mrs., meeting with,

                         271 compared to Law's
i. ii,scheme,                                                                  i, i.        498.
                 ii,                                                           Brown, Alfred, South African geologist,
                             ;

                                 i.
                                              ;
                                          ii.
                                                          ;
        Mississippi scheme, 288.                                                      275
Bowman, Sir William, retiring from

    King's College,                               116 death of,                Brown Sequard at Oxford, 211.
                                                                                                                   i.
                                                                                                                          i.

                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                                     in
              332                                                              Browning, his music, ii. 359.
Bradlaugh, Charles, view of,                                                   Bruce, John, visit to, 476                                   Edin
                                                              56 cp.
                                                                               burgh, 478
             347)-                                                             Bruny Island,
                                                                               Bryson, Dr.,   ,             54.
Bradlaugh, Miss, exclusion from Uni                                                              i. i. i.  104.

       versity College,           ii.         61.             educa            Buchner, L.                 217.
Bramwell, Sir F.,                 on          technical

       tion, 509.i.                                                            Buckland, Frank, succeeds as Fishery
Brewster, Sir David, criticism of Darwin,
                                                                               Inspector,          ii.      21.

    i.  209.                                                                   Buckland, Mrs., discovers an Echino-

Bright, John, speeches,                               512.                     derm, 125
                                              i. i. i.                                        i.
                                                                                                        i.
Bristol Channel, report on the recent                                          Buffon, on style, 297 appreciation of,
                                                                                                                 ;

       changes of level in, 154.                                                   Cii. 39, 408                  182.
British Association, at Southampton
                                                                               Bunbury, Sir
    Huxley's first paper, 28                                     ;             Bunsen,   i.
                                                                         i. :  Burnett,               ,
                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                          Si1r12W. illiam,
at Ipswich, 72, 80 sq. i.                                                                                              Director-General
at Belfast, 1852, 86.     i.
                                  ; i. i. i.                                   Navy Medical Service, interviews

at Liverpool, 1853,                           i.  123.                         with,           23, 35, 58 letter to, 79.
                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                   ;

at Aberdeen, 166.                                                              Burns, John, and poem on Tennyson,
at Oxford, 1860,
                                              179 sqq.                                ''. 339              letter to-- advice against
at Nottingham,                                                                 Burton, Edward,
                                              298 science in
                                                      ;

    public schools President Section                                           building disregarded, 383, 384
    D, ib.                                                                                                 i.
                                                                               Busk, G. stays with,                  i.

                                                                                                                         ; .i.
                                                                                                                                  ;;

                                                                                                                                                   i.
                                                                                         i. ,                            113, 125; on
                                                                               Snowden with, 155 joint trans
at Dundee working men's lecture de
                     i. : :                                                    lation of Kolliker, 171 also
    "Alivered by Tyndall,i. :                     i.   313.                    223, 224, 226, 255, 256 x Club,
    Norwich Bathybius,                               i.
at  Piece of Chalk," 319;     i.                          317 sq.
                                                      Darwinism,
                                                                   ib.         ii. 128.

at Exeter, 336.                   Huxley President,                            Butler's Analogy,                 259, ii. 16.

at Liverpool                                                                   Cabanis, 262.
                                                                               Cairns, Professor,
    33i sq-
at Edinburgh,                                                                                                    227.
                                  384.                                                                      i.
                                                                                                                  i.
at Belfast,                     444 sqq.                 address on            Calcutta, museum appointment, 303
                                                    ;                                                                                   i.

    Animal Automatism, it. 414; paper                                          Calvanism in science,                   328                    to--

    on Columella auris, 446.                                                   Campbell, Professor Lewis, letters

committee on vivisection, 469.                                                 value of Mariner's testimony about
                       i.
                                   ;

                                                i.
at Dublin,                      530 address on An                              theTongans,                       132 Oxford British
                                                                                                            ii.
                                                                                                                      ;

    thropology, ib.                               " eats the leek "            Association, 1894, stronghold of
at Sheffield: Huxley
                                                                               the priesthood in opposing scientific
                                                                                      method, 402.
   about Bathybius,                           ii.      sq.                     Campbell, Mrs. L.                   letter to -- hybrid
at York address on                                5   Rise and Pro

                                              ''

         :                                                                                     ii.
                                                                                                              ,
   gress of Paleontology," ii. 36.                                             gentian on a nameless island in Sils
at Plymouth, invitation for, ii. 213.
                                                                               Lake,           402.

at Oxford, 1894 speech on growing                                              Canaries,   trip to,        ii. 251-57
    acceptance of evolution,      ;:                                           Cardwell,    Lord,          vivisection          question,
                                         i.              ii.  375-79                                                                        i.
                                                                                                                                                   i.
British Museum, Natural History Collec                                         437-39

       tions,          160; ex officio Trustee, ii. 71.                        Carlyle, influence of,                  9, 13, 15, 275,
Broca, P.,     i.    advice as to anthropological                                                          ;
                   i.                                                                                          ; i.

                                                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                               ii.        34, 268 Edinburgh LL. D.

    scheme,                295 language and race,                              with Huxley,                            296 hatred of

       ii. 287.                                   184, 188                             Darwinism,            297   death of, ii. 36.
Brodie, Sir Benjamin,                                                          Carlyle, Mrs.,              saying  about Owen, ii.

Brodie, Professor (afterwards the second                                                178.   Lord,        Vivisection Bill,
       Sir B.),                                                                Carnarvon,      Rev.         Estlin, letter to
Brodie, Rev.         P., i.195.               to--    local  museums,          Carpenter,                                                   --4a4c0
                           letter
                                                                               knowledges his book, The First
             147.i.
Brodrick, Hon. G., letter to, on Linacre
                                                                               Three Gospels historical basis of
       chair, ii. 32; visit to, 402; letter                                                                ,;
      to-- reason for accepting P.R.S.                                                                         :

                                                                                                                                   ii.
                                                                               Christianity comparison of Nazar-

                                                                      ,        enism with Quakerism,                                    282.

    56.                                                                        Carpenter, W. B. approves of his views,

478 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

i. 100; support for F. R. S. , 96 ; deal                                         Clarke, Legros, evolution and the
ings with, about the Registrarship
of London University, 12 1 ; at his                                                     Church,            n.
                                                                                                          letter
                                                                                 Clayton, W.     ii.P.,60          to -- moral            duty
                                                                                                                        :
marriage, 140 ; Examiner at Lon                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                                                                  ii.
                                                                                 and the moral sense influence of

don University, 159 ; at Lamlash                                                 Franklin and Fox compared,

Bay, 166 ; and Bathybius, 318.                                                   3°5
Carus, Victor, corresponds with, i. 150 ;                                        Clergy and physical science,
      also 162, 201 ; takes Wyville                                           |  Clericalism, ii. 234, 378                          330.

Thomson's lectures in 1874, 442                                                  Clerk Maxwell, to help in Men of Science
                                                                                        Series,
Casino, Prince of, at British Association,                                       Clifford, W.    K5.3, 5  sq.
        Ipswich, i. 90-92                                                                                    258,
                                                                                               i.
                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                                                         i. 3
                                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                       314, ii.              his

Cassowary, rhyme, ii. 356.                                                       friends rally to, in his illness, 537
Cats, love for, i. 57.                                                                  opinion of,
Cavendish, Lord F. , assassination of,                                           Clifford, Mrs.,       ii. 420.    --  a  difficulty,        ii.
                                                                                                     letters to

         ,'· 45                                                                  9           the P.C. a spiritual peerage,of i. ;
Cell theory, review of, i. 152.                                                    ;
Celt question, i. 349 sq.                                                            eduii. 346 human nature, 453.;:
Challenger expedition, and Bathybius,                                   i.
                                                                                 Clodd, Edward, note on secular
         296 ; some results of, 475.                                                   cation, 369 letters to -- his book,:
Chamberlain, Right Hon. Joseph, asked                                                   Jesus Nazareth Bible reading, ii.
                                                                                                reply to condolence on his
                                                                                 ;9

to Royal Society dinner,                          61                             daughter's death, 192 Positivism
                                 i.                                                                                ;                            ::
                                            i.

                                                      i. ii.
                                                                       i. i.
Chambers, Robert, at Oxford, 1860,                                               will devote his remaining powers to

         180, 187                                                                theological questions, 244 Baur's
Chamisso, quoted, 51.                                                            merit proposes work on the three
                                                                                       :                                            ;
Chandler, Dr., apprenticed to,                                                            :                                            ;
Chapman, the publisher, 120,                       15,                  16       great       ;myths,      "24D5,arkceps.t  276 legal
                                                  121                            aspect        of the                      England"

Cherubim, and terrestrial creation,                                              scheme           controversy           aonfd"      waste    "of
         312 n.                                                                  time, 290          new edition                     Bates

Chess player, nature compared to a                                               alleged ignoring of distinguished
                                                                                 men by Royal Society, 364 Man's
       hidden, 320.                                                              Place after thirty years, 365 answer
Chichester, Bishop of, on Huxley's                                               ing letters Kidd on Social Evolu
        ,                                                                        tion Lord Salisbury at Oxford,                     ;;
                   i.

                          ;
                               i.

                                              ;
                                                    ii. ii.

                                                                       ;
       search after the Ur-gentian,                                     138      383  :
Christian dogmas, 260.                                                   239                     :
Christianity, "development" of,
                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                                     ;
sq. 243 sq. demonology of, 239                                                   Cobden, Richard,         162 and Interna
historical basis of, 277 comparison
                                                                                 tional College, 291.
       with Quakerism, 283.                                                      Cole, Sir Henry, the humour of public
Chrystal, Professor, to help in Men of                                                  affairs, ii. 344.
                                                                                 Colenso, Bishop, Bishop Wilberforce on,
Science Series,                  i.  535.

Church Army, answer to appeal for sub                                                         217 also

                                                                                 Coleridge, Lord,
                                                                                 i.
                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                        i.
                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                               ii.
                                                                                                          239, 258,                 37.
                                                                                                          235 and vivisection,
       scription to, ii. 416.
Church, Established, and our simian                                              ii. 256.

origin,       ii.          406.                                                  Collected Essays, review of, by Professor

Churchill, the publisher, 92.                                                           Ray Lankester, ii. 393.
                                     i.                                          Collier, Hon. John, letters to-- the                    "Apo
                                       i.
                                                      i.
                                                                i.
City and Guilds Institute, 508 sq.
City Companies and education,                                                    logetic Irenicon" art in London
                                                                        474                             ii.
                                                                                                                 :

                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                                          :
         sq. 50;;J,. ii. ii. ii. M. D., at Haslar,                               University,              325 a pertinacious

Clark, Sir Andrew, ,,                                                            portrait painter, 352 effect of in

24 successful treatment by, 373,                                                 fluenza on personal appearance the

444,                       442 meets on return from                                      Romanes  Lecture an egg-dance,                      3--77a.
                             ;                                                   Collier, Hon.    Mrs. John, letters to

Italy, 103; advises retirement, 112;

on Clifford's illness,                     537 election                          country visit, ii. 68 secretarial
                                     i. i.                                       work incidents of travel, 89           ;
as F. R.S. ii. no                              ;                                 Naples violent changes of weather,
                                                                                 92 secretarial work Catherine of                               ;;
                                                                                 Siena, 104 end of Italian trip, 109
Clark, Sir                 help from, 86.                                        ;
            W. Master of the Salters'                                                :
Clark,  J.                                                                                                         :
Company, letter from -- education,                                                       :
                                                                                              ;

ii.                                                                              prize at the Slade School return
              50                                                                 from Maloja, 219 the Canaries,                     :
Clarke, Hyde,
                             letters to .-- Ashantee                                                      ;;
                                                                                                              ;
War and ethnology Huxley no                                                      271      objects of the seashore, 293,
                                                                                 294      the P.C., 324 the cat, 369-70
longer attending to anthropology,
402 aim of Genesis controversy,
                                           :                                          ;;                                                        ;
                                                                    i.

ii.                                                                              nonsense letter, 465                      an Oxford
      ;
        126.                                                                     training, 441

                                                             INDEX                                                             479

Collier, W. F., letters to -- proposed                              Mr. Gladstone,           i.            114 sqq., 122;
                                                                                                   ii.
visit to, ii. 78 . a touching mark of                               also 320.
confidence, 200 ; law of Deceased                                                                        i.
                                                                    Criticism, a compliment, 168.
Wife's Sister : Shakespeare and the                                 Croonian Lecture,        to t--ooV,iv1is6e1c,tio1n63 Com
                                                P.C :               Cross, Lord, letter
s"exWeshaotf              plants, 231-32;  the
                        is honour?" : a    new  Beati               mission, 439
                                                                                  i.

         tude,   348 ;       vliestittetro,to2--68a. lcohol         Crossopterygian fishes,        i.      153
Collings,
                E. T.   ,                                    as  a  Crowder, Mrs., visit to, ii. 379.

        brain stimulant, ii. 247.                                   Crum Brown, Professor, induces Huxley
Collings, Right Hon. Jesse, his mother                                      to play golf, 390.
                                                                    Crustacea, paleozoic, 159.i.
      and the P.C, ii. 349.                                         Culture, basis of, ii. 14 sq. i.

Commission, Medical Acts, ii. 31, 40 ;                              Cunningham, on South American fossil,
        report of, 40, 41
                                                                    i.  335.
Commission, Scottish Universities, i. 477
                                                                    Cuno, language and race,
       sq., 489                                                                   i.                            287.
Commissions, Royal, i. 347 sq. , 428;                                                         i.
                                                                                                            ii.
        Fisheries, 201, 234, 238, 249, 253;                                                                              i.
      on Science and Art Instruction, 324;                          Cuvier, his views controverted,                          149,

                                                                    154; and his title, 386; apprecia
                                                                    tion of, ii. 42.
       on Science, 420 ; on Trawling, ii.                           Cuvier, the British, 161
        26 ; Fisher)', of 1883, 59, 60
Common, T. , letter to -- Nietzsche:                                Dalgairns, Father, in Metaphysical

German work and style : morality                                    DalhoSuoscieie,tyL, ord3,38P.resident Royal Com
       and evolution, ii. 383.
Comparative anatomy, letter on, i. 160.                             mission on Trawling, ii. 27.
Comte, criticism on, i. 322 sq. ; would                             Dana, and coral reef theories, ii. 170
                                                                           misunderstanding of Darwin in his                        ;
        need re-writing, ii. 426 ; typical of
       the century? 396.                                            obituary of Asa Gray, 192, 193
Comtism, denned as "Catholicism with                                Daphnia,
                                                                                  159.
       out Christianity," i. 322.                                   Darwin, Charles, likewise beginsi.
Comtists, opinion of, ii. 396, 397; see also                                    ;                                              his
                                                                                      ;
                                                                    career at sea,                    31 as man of
                                                                                                   i.
                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                   ;
Positivism.                                                         science, 94. 95; saying about happi
                                                                    ness and work, 129; 157 starts on
Conditions, influence of, 127
Congreve, controversy with, 322.
Controversy, opinion of, 251, 288, 482,
                                  i. ii.                            the Origin, 171; effect of the Origin,
                                          i.
                                                                    179-83 the species question before
                                                     i.
488,            ; ii.  273 and friendship, 414,                     1859, 182 the most serious omis
                        ;                                           sion in the Origin, 184 Huxley
                                                                    his "general agent," 171, 276, his
ii. 186 exhilarating effect of, ii. 95,                                                                         ;

115, 116, 122, 145; aim of, 225,                                    "bulldog," 363; and his prede

       235 in self-defence, 452.;
Controverted Questions, ii. 316 labour
                                                                    cessors, 200 223 and poetry,
       of writing the prologue, 317 elimin                                                 ;;
                                             ;;                                                     ;
                                                  i.                                                      ;
                                                                    242 compared with Lamarck, 245
       ation of the supernatural, 299                       i.      and spontaneous generation, 263;;                               ; ;;
Cook (editor of Saturday Review),                                   at x Club, 279 his opinion of;;
                                                                    D" othhern,che3e5ri1est  his generosity, 450
         177,  D2r.4,7  his   brother-in-law,                6;                              letter-writer know,"
Cooke,                                                                                                          ;I

his first instruction in medicine, 15,                              ii. 13 letter to, obtaining a Civil               ;
                                                                    List pension for Wallace, 15 death
         33                                                         of, 40 notice of, in Nature, 41
Copley Medal, awarded to Huxley,                                    love for, ib. intellect of, 42 obi
                                                                    tuary, 65 compared to Gordon,
         215.
Corfield, R. on Clifford's illness, 501
Cork, rejected for chair at, 86.
Cornay, Professor, acknowledgment from,
                                  i.                                                                                                ;
                                              i.
i.                                                       ii.        102 unveiling of statue, 120; char;;
            ,                                                       acter and friends, 121 influence;
                                                                    in science, 173 exposition not his       ;
                                                                    forte, 203 dumb sagacity of, ib.;
             285                  ,           279.                  legacy from A. Rich, 304 his                                    ;
                                    i.       at Royal
Cornu, Professor, at x Club,                                                                                          ;
Courtney, Right Hon. L.
                                                                    theory needs experimental proof,
       Society dinner, ii. 65.

Coventry, the home of Thomas Huxley,                                309 and natura non faeit saltum,
                                                                        ;;
                George Huxley returns to,                                     ;
                                                                                       i.

                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                        ?
                                                                                                                                   ;
i.                                              i.                  372 typical of the century 396
   1                                                   6.           nature of his work, 400 example
      ;
              i.
Craniology,             257.
Cranks, letters from, ii. 46 sq.
Crayfish, on the,                                                   Letotfe,rs413fromde--fenthcee  of, 452.           critics       of
                              i.  132, 398,                  490,                                  decisive

ii.  1                                                              the Origin,                    178; Huxley's re

Creation, controversy on Genesis with                               servations in accepting the doctrine

48o LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

of the Origin, 223 ; on Huxley's                          Dayman, Lieutenant, formerly of the
treatment of Suarez' metaphysics :                               Rattlesnake, 95 on Atlantic mud,
intellect of Huxley, 392 ; on new                                            i.                    ;;
biological teaching, 410 ; on report                               317.          i.                               63; 113,
of seance, 456 ; automatism, ii.                                                                            i.
                                                          De la Beche, Sir Henry,     i. i.                          i.

    41.  to -- on the                                              114. 132
Letters                                                   De Maillet, 215.

                       Origin,       i.          188 ;    De Quatrefages,                      162.  Bill,
                                                          Deceased Wife's                  Sister
Edinburgh lectures, 194, 195 ; the                        Derby, Lord, 79.                                   ii.  231-33.

Cambridge British Association, 213 ;                      Descartes' Discourse. Commentary on.                                 i.
on Man's Place: Atavism, 220;

that his theory accounts for retro                                 352.
                                                          Design, ii. 188, 189 argument from,
gression as well as progression, 205;
206 ; pressure of work, 245 ; 249 ;
absorption in one kind of work, due                       62.
                                                          D" eDveovnoiannshifriseheMs, an "22c7o.ntroversy,
                                                                                i.

dtoreno,ne's270rep;uta"tioCnritiacnisdmsone'sof  chil                                                                     325
                                                   the    Dewar, Professor, liquid oxygen, ii.

Origin," 253 ; Copley Medal, 275 ;                        Dingl3e8, 4.Mr., at Oxford, 1860,                          196.
difficulty of writing a book, 285 ;                                                                    i.
birth of a son : work in the Reader,                                                                            i.
                                                          Diphtheria, outbreak of, 528 sq.
286 ; sends booklet, ib. ; Darwin                         Docker, the        scientific, letter                to, ii.
                                                                   tries to                                    letter     3t8o 8--;
                                                                             help, ib. sq.
ism in Germany, 287 ; Pangenesis,                                                                           ;

267, 268 ; laziness : Hooker ill,                         atoms and the evolution of matter,

290 ; memorial about Gallegos                                    ii. 382
fossils, 297 ; new edition of Origin :                    Dog, on the, 429 projected work on.
Jamaica affair, 300 ; on Positivist
critics, 299, 300; visit from Darwin,                            490 problems connected with, ii.
                                                                  10 further work on, 11 sq.
                                                          ;;
                                                                      i.
                                                                                 ;

328 ;    no  time to read,              329 ; loses       Dohrn, Dr. Anton, visit of, 311 visit
sight    of  naturalists ' '         by grace of                                                       ;             i.
                                                                                                            i.         ;
                                                          from, in 1868, 324 absent from
the dredge." 312 ; South American                            Naples   on        Huxley's visit, ii. 84
fossils,;'*. ; Exeter British Association,                Letters    to --      matrimony Tennyson
                                                                                                          :                    ;:

336; societies: the Celt question, 349;                   his kindness to children,                                       313
on Oxford D.C. L. , 330 ; on Descent
of Man, and Sexual Selection, 359 ;                       scientific investigators and museum
inconvenience of having four ad                           work family news criticism of
                                                          Kolliker, 325-27 Calcutta Museum             :
                                                          Kolliker and the organon adaman-
                                                               ::                                                              :
                                                                            :
dresses, 414 ; on a friend's illness,
434 ; note for the Descent of Man :                                             ;
Dohrn's Station : projected visit to                      tinae family news, 327 a bad
America, 450; W. G. Ward's saying                                                                                 ;
about Mill, 451; report on spiritual
                                                          letter-writer Goethe's Aphorisms                                     ;;

                                                          Dohrn's work and English, 326
                                                          marine stations at Naples and

istic seance, 452 sq. ; attack in                         Brighton spontaneous generation
Quarterlv, 426; on vivisection, 437,                                         :                                                 :

438. 439. 44° ; instructions for                          Huxley,            "dTeovcilh'stearvdovlolecsateHatoussp,"ec3u3la2;
                                                          tors: a

Polar expedition, 481 ; on theo                           British Association at Liverpool                                     ;: :
                                                                                             PWruasrs,ian35W9 arm, i3c6ro1;
Cloagmicbarlidpgreo,tes4t,79;50' 5'    ; his degree  a"t  Franco-            Prussian                       ::
                                     Coming of Age        scopes              Franco-                             ;
                                                               ;
                                                                    ;:                                               :
                                                                                :                                       ;;

                                                                                   ;
                                                                                     :
of the Origin, ii. 12; cuts out a                         School Board "an optical Sadowa,
sharp retort, 15 ; on Wallace's pen                       361 sq. illness of 1871, 395; the
sion, ib. ; optimism and pessimism,                       visit to Naples Ceylon Museum,

Darwin, Mrs., visit to, ii. 305.                          373 beefsteaks and wives not to be
Darwin, Miss E. , on Huxley's books, i.                   despised, 403 Ceylon Museum
                                                          his father's illness his capacity,
                                                          375 invitation to Morthoe, ib.               ;;:
         264, 265, 278                                    books for the Aquarium, 405 the:
Darwin, Francis, letter to, on the British                new laboratory, 408 England not
                                                          represented at his station visit
      Association Meeting of 1860, i. 187 ;
       visit to, ii. 164                                  from von Baer lawsuit Kleinen-
Darwin. Professor George, at seance, i.                                      ;
                                                                                :
420 sq.            ii. 180.                               berg on Hydra, 399 subscriptions
Darwin tree, the,   Oxford,                               for station prefers his German to:
Daubeny, Dr., at                                                                         ii. ; :
                                     1860, i. 180,        his English hesitation, 431 his
                                     at Huxley's          marriage the station Darwin's
         188, 189
Davies, Rev. Llewelyn,                                    generosity, 449 death of Darwin
funeral,                                                  and Balfour,
          ii.  426.                                                                                41 naval officers
                                                                                                       ;

                                                                 INDEX

and scientific research, 45 ; health :                                      ism, i. 122; introduction to Kings
age : earning an honest sixpence.                                           ley and Maurice, 131 ; refuses Edin

         148   Dr.,  sen.,        i.  399;      visit  to, at               burgh chair: coast survey, 122,
Dohrn,
                                                                            123, 124; approaching marriage,
        Naples, ib. sq.        ;   Kv.iCgo.uBr.,ofv,is4it04.to,             125, 126; popular lectures, 149;
Donnelly, Sir John,                                                         man not a rational animal in his
                                                                 ii.
                                                                            parental capacity, ii. 192.
    385.       to-- vivisection,
Letters                                     i.  431,   432 ;

Fisher)' appointment, ii. 22 ; title of                               Ealing, i. 1.

Dean : a wet holiday, 38 ; retired                                    Eastbourne, house at ; law of nature
                                                                            about ; origin of name,
officers in administrative posts, 49 ;                                                                                ii.294.
                                                                                                                                        i.
unofficial answer to official inquiries,                              Echinoderms, on the development of,

78 ; proposed resignation, 79 ; in                                          82 aim of paper, 100.
dustry and age. 74 ; health : Gor                                     Echo, t,
don, ib. ; reply to arguments against                                 Ecker,    ;
resignation, 81 ; extension of leave :
festa of St. Peter's chair, 97 ; cold                                                             i.
ness of Rome : repression of dyna                                             article in,                  512.                     work,
                                                                               Dr. A., on                  his ethnological
miters : Roman noses, 99 ; Gor
don : public affairs : technical edu                                               273       W.,  letter   to --Civil    List pen
cation : depression : carnival, 94-                                   Eckersley,
96 ; health, 106; return from Italy,
103 ; Civil List pension, 117 ;                                             sion,            117.ii.
return in good health from Arolla :                                                                  i.
renews work at science instead of
theology, 147-4;8 Science and Art ex                                                                    ,
aminations, 141, 235 ; age moder                                      Eckersley, W. A. death                          of, ii. 426.
ates hopes, 160 ; Imperial Institute,                                 Eckhard, Dr., 176.
165 ; the Irish question, 179 ;                                       Ectoderm and Endoderm, discovery of,
Glion : "javelins," 182 ; sends
                                                                                39. 4°                     at -- on the Ape
proof of Struggle for Existence, 199 ;                                Edinburgh, lectures

Deceased Wife's Sister Bill : hatred                                        question, 207 sq. on the Physical
                                                                                             i. i.
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                             ;;
                                                                            Basis of Life, 321 Fishery Exhibi
                                                                            tion, ii. 31 refuses an uncertain
                                                                            post at,
                                                                                                   123 refuses to succeed
                                                                            Forbes there, 117, 119, 120, 123,

                                                                            124 Natural History courses at,                             i. i.
                                                                                          ;

                                                                             442 sq.. 456 sq.
                                                                      Edinburgh University, hon. degree,

                                                                            »75
of anonymity, 219 ; Stonehenge :                                      Edison, typical of the century?
use of Radicals : death of Smyth,                                     Education, the true end of,                        i. ii.  374
275 ; move to Eastbourne, 278 ;
                                                                                                                                    320  ;

                                                                            secular, 369, and note intermedi
                                                                                                                      ;

London University Commission                                                 ate, and the State, ii. 339                 ;          scien
                                                                             tific, for a boy, 319, 321                              144;
and reform, 330 ; the State and                                       Egerton, Sir Philip, his museum,                          i.
intermediate education, 339 ; re
sponsible for the Privy Councillor-                                         visit to, 191 squib on the ape;
                                                                            question, 192, 200
ship, 323 : humour of public affairs,
344 ; the modern martyrdom, 353 ;                                     Egyptian exploration, ii. 67.
faculty of forgetting, 356 ; the
scientific docker, 388 ; death of                                     Ehrenberg, suspects Bathybius, 480.
Tyndall, 392 ; letter from a lunatic,                                   1
395 ; a State evening party, 395 ;                                        ;
procrastination: the scientific docker:                                                                ii.

                                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                                            i.
                                                                      Eisig, assistant to Dr. Dohrn, ii. 91.
                                                                      Elementary Physiology,                          246, 283, ii.

                                                                                          new edition, ii. 69, 82
                                                                      Eliot, George, proposed burial in West
       Darwin Medal,                                                        minster Abbey, 19; Stanley on, 33.
       public life, 411.              410 ;     women            in
Draper, Dr., i. 195.
Drawing, Huxley's faculty for, i. 4, 43,                              Ellicott, Bishop of Gloucester, in Meta
                                                                             physical Society, 338.

                                                                      Ellis, Charles, with Huxley in Egypt,
         269,  LL41.D5 .                                                                                   i.
Dublin,                   at,  i.                                              371                                                  i.
                                                                      Emancipation,
                                      530.      visit to, i.          ''                          Black and White, "
Duncan, Dr. Matthews,                                                          i. ii. i-
                                                                                                                                        283.

         362                                                          English literature, teaching of, letter on,

Dyer, Sir W. Thiselton, helps in the                                                301.
new science teaching, i. 407 n. ;                                     English Men of Science Series projected,

lectures for Huxley, 409 ; to help                                                 534       sqq.
in Men         of Science Series, 499 ; letter                        Enniskillen,
from --        Gentian paper, ii. 214 ; letter                                                 Lord,       217.
                                                                                                           i.
to --on          Marine Biological Associa                            Erasmus, opinion of,                       ii.  395, 430

                                                                      Erebus and Terror, Hooker on, 61.
       tion, 208.                                                     Erichssen, Professor, on Vivisection Com        I2 i.
Dyster, Dr. , letters          to -- scientific
                                                       Calvin-              mission, 472.    i.

VOL. II

482 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Ethnological Society, President of, i.                                       Oxford British Association, 1860,
                                                                                                                            ii.
       263 ; presidential address, 330 ;                                     Farrer1,82,Lo1r8d9, letters to --official folly      ;10 : i.
       amalgamation of two societies, 348.
Ethnology, work on, i. 197, 198, 249,                                               fallacies tenacious of life,

       262, 273-74, 285, 324, 326; Sir                                       Fishery appointment, 22 Gladstone
      M. Foster on, 284 ; systematic series                                                                    :; ;
       of photographs, 330 ; definition of,                                  controversy ignorance of the so-
       348 ; attention turned away from,                                                   :
       in 1873, 4°2                                                          called educated classes, 124 effect;       ;
Eton, new Headmaster, and future of,                                         controversy on health, 124; the::

;                                                                            Cassowary rhyme, 356                       his ele
                                                           ; ii.             vation to the peerage                      criticism
        134 Huxley a Governor of, 3, 207
       examinations, 250.                                                    of Romanes Lecture, 358 the                  ;
Europeans, alleged inferiority of senses                                     Devil Prince of this Cosmos a                   :
                                                                             priori reasoning the Established
       in, ii. 284.
                                                                             Church and our simian origin                       :
Evans, Sir J., on Marine Biological                                          attack on the School Board com
LetAtsesros citaot--iong,ettiii.ng19in5,
                                            196          a tonic       :     promise, 406 the a priori method
                                          harness                            an anachronism method of the

need of rest, ii. 85 Ravenna takes                                           Political Economists and Eubiotics
up Italian again, 92 work of Royal
Society Secretary, 94 a growl from
Italy, 99 n. description of pleurisy,
177 n. delay over Spirula and
                                    ;                                        growing hopefulness in age, 407         i.
                                      ;;                                     aim of the chapter in Owen's Life                      : : ;:
                                                                             hint for an essay on Government
                                                         :

:                                                                                    London University reform, 416.
    :;                                                                       Fawcett, Professor, stays with, 213.
             ;                                                               Fayrer, Sir Joseph, settles his career for

                ;
Darwin obituary, 202                                     Copley
                                                   ;
                                                          :
Medal Geological Congress pun-
                                                                             him,
nigrams, 211 pliocene and miocene                                                   i.     23, 251 great anthropo
                                                                                                  ;
       man language no test of race, 286                                                              ;
       a forgotten subscription, 370.
Evolution, article for Encyclopedia,                                                                      ;
       453, 479 lectures on, at New                                    i. ;  logical scheme, 273 invites Huxley
      York, 501 demonstrative evidence                                       to Calcutta, ib. ethnological photo
       of, 502 accumulation of evidence for,
ii.                                                                             graphs,  --330In. dian     Canidae,     ii.   11 ;
         ;;                                                                  Letters to

                 ;;                                                          273 the P.C. career due to his
                                                                             ;                    i. :
                                                                                                           ;
                                                                             suggestion, 346.
     13 laws of, applied to the ar                                           Felixstowe, visits,               Mrs. Huxley
rangement of the Vertebrata, 12,                                                                         96
                                                                             at, 213.
450 theory must have been in                                                 Fichte, 235.
;vented by later paleontologists, 36                                         i.
illustrated by the Pearly Nautilus,                                             ,
                                                                       ;     Filhal, M. work on Natural Selection,

62 sq. experimental, 291, 292                                                        ii. 13.
                  ;                                                          Fish, immature, ii. 249.
                                              ii.                            Fisheries, appointed Inspector of, ii. 21
Evolution and morality,                            382.                                                                          ;;
"Evolution of Theology," ii. 131.
                                                                             duties, 23 sq. deep sea, require no
                                                                                                 ;

Evolutionary thought builds up as well                                       protection, 24, 28 salmon, protec
as pulls down,                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                      ;10 ;

                                                                                                              ;
                         ii.        317.                                     tion, 24 experiments, 25.
                            ii.                                                         ;

Examinership under Science and Art                                           Fisheries, Report on, 159 old fallacies
       Department, 156^., 214, 235-36
Exodus, the real story of, ii. 67.                                           in reports, ii.                   experimental

Eyre, Governor,                                                                     station at Lamlash Bay,      i.     166.
                                                                             Fishery business, ii. 48, 68            ii.
                         i.  300-304.

Faith, the sin of, ii. 427.                                                  Fishery Exhibition, lesson of,                 24 n.
                                                                             at Norwich, 29 sq. at Edinburgh,
                                                                                                           ;

Falconer, Dr. Hugh,                       276.                               31 in London, 53.
                         i.                                                  i-
                                    i.                                           ;

                                                       ii.
                                                                 5
Family motto, tenax propositi,                           4,                  Fishes, development of the skeleton in,
Fanning, Mrs., 180
Fanning, William, his friend in Sydney,                                                   153
                                    of, ii. 176.                             Fishmongers' Company and education,
                                         379.
             36,            death                                                     ii. 54.
Fanning,                 visit to,                                           Fiske, John, visit to, 497.
i-                F3.,7;                                                     FitzRoy, Admiral, Darwinism
    ;                           ;                                                   i.
                                                                                                 , i.
                                         ii.
                                                  ii.                                                  i.
                                                               ; ; i.
Faraday, Michael, interview with,                                      21,                                              and the

99 156, 157 and titles, 386 in                                               Bible, 201.
fluence in science,                                      173 the             Flood myth, ii. 260, 279

knowledge of popular audiences,                                              Flourens reviewed,          269.

         380.                                                                Flower, Sir W. H. on the            simian brain
Farrar, Dean, on science in public schools,
                                                                             at Cambridge, 1862,               i.    189, 190,
277, 308 at Sion House meeting,                                                                                    ;
i.                                                                           198, 201 on Huxley's work for;
                    ;                                                        Hunterian Lectures, 254 curator
                                                                             of Natural History Collections, 248
         325.            Professor, account of the                                                                              ;
Farrar, Rev.

                                                             INDEX                                                                4§3

character of, 269 ; Kingsley should                                   London University Commission,
get to know him, 298 ; evolution                                                 "discovery" of,
                                                                          330    from --retirement         420.
                                                                      Letters                               at
   and   the  --Cheuxracmhi,nersh6ip0          n.                             ;;                                  sixty,          ii.
Letters   to  :                                at                                   :
                     ;                             College       of       109,  120;    society at  Maloja,                     218.
                                                                      Letters                      ii.to --Edinburghlectures      vivi
                       ii.                                                                                ;
                              ii.
                                                                                                              ;
                                  ;                                                                                            :
                                            ;
                                                   i.

                                                               ,;
Surgeons Dijon museum,                                   253
Hunterian Lectures, 335 anatomy
of the fox,                                                           section Bathybius suspected,                                ; ; ; i.

                            11 Linacre pro                            480 official functions not his busi
                                                                      ness in life,
fessorship,   "32Vilaleccepqtuainceparolef ,P".          R. S.                                 53 successor to
52, 53;                                                   etc.,       Spottiswoode, 55 reluctance to

71 retirement, 113 refuges for the                                    divide the Royal Society over his
incompetent Civil Service Com
;                                                                     election as President, 59; elected, 60
              :                                                       support of debateable opinions while

                  :
                                 ;
        missioners treatment by the Royal
        Society, 225; promotion by seniority,                         P. R.S.          56; handwriting and
                                                                      ;
     312 university reform, 33 the                                    anxiety, 63 holiday defined, ib.,
                                                                      Science and Art examinations, ib.
       P.C. Salisbury P.C. received by
       Gladstonians (cp. 350) kinds of
       pleurisy official patronage illness
       of Owen, 347 Owen's work, 362.
Foote case, ii. 429.
Forbes, Professor Edward, introduction
       to, 25, 27 seemingly forgotten
       D7i 39 visits, 58 support from,
      60, 62, 80, 89; helps to F.R.S.
      :;                                                              on Senate of London University,;; ;
             :
                        ;                                             64 obituaries of F. Balfour and
                                                                      Darwin, ib. Royal Society anniver
                                         's
                                             :
                                                   :

                                                        ;

                                                                      sary, 65   ;           Egyptian exploration

                                                                      society, 67 new edition of Ele

      i.                                                              mentary Physiology, 75 sensation,    ;
          ;                                                           76 resignation of P. R.S. 71
                                                                      ;swine miracle, 77 health, 78               ;; ,            :; ; ;;
                        ;                                                   :proofs resignation Jeremiah and
                                  ;
                                                                      dyspepsia, 78; "vis inertUe," 79
66, 67 his pay, 68 goes to Edin                          ;                                     :;
burgh, 93 life of the Red Lion                                ; is ,  ordered abroad, 79, 80 Venice,
Club, 94 writes notice of Huxley,
98 on Huxley's views, 100 character
of, 94, 95, 96, 107, 115, 118
;                                                                                                         ;
        ;                                                                                                      ;
                                                                      87 November in Italy, 83, 85;
            ;                                                         papal Rome health, 93 depression
                ;
                                  ;

                                           ;

succeeded by Huxley, 108, 118                                         will turn antiquary Royal Society:
          ofrf,om12--5                                                                    ;  ,:
   death                sq. also;              99                     Secretary, 96 Elementary Physio:
Letters                 Huxley's                Rattlesnake           logy, new edition Italian archaeo
                                                                                                   ;: :
   work,      --5R9 oyaoln  Royal              Medal, 109             logy visits the Lincei, 100 preface;
Letters                     Medal,                    103, 109        to Elementary Physiology Gordon's
         ii. i.to                                                     ::                                   :
                   ;                                                                                          ;

                                             i.                       idea of future life carnival, 101
        (cp. 408); also 113, 114                                      birthday wishes upshot of Italian                           a;
Forbes, Principal James, structure of

glaciers, 147, 150 and Tyndall,                                       trip looks forward to becoming
              i.                                                      lodge - keeper Elementary Physio
440.                               ;                                                   :
                                         ii.
Forel, Professor, at Arolla,                       181.               logy published, 98 returns home                             :
Forster, Right Hon. W.                              on                continued ill-health, 103-105 im
                                     E.,                 Bible        pending retirement, 114 medical

teaching,               369 vivisection at
              i.                                                                                           ;
                            ;                                         men and F. R.S. i11 social meet        ;
                                               ;
South Kensington, 462 sq. letter
       to. 433                                                        ings of Royal Society, 120 science
Foster, Sir M. on the spirit of Huxley's                              at Oxford, 128; a scientific Frank
              ,
                                i.
                                             ;
early inquiries,                     103 on his                       enstein, 128 visit to Ilkley, 129; ;; :                     ;
                                                                      paleontological museum, 131 re
"Review of the Cell Theory,"                                          newed ill-health scientific federa
152; and "Theory of the Verte
brate Skull," 152 on the Oxford;;                                     tion reorganisation of Fisheries De: ::; :
meeting of the British Association,                                   :                                ;
                                                                      partment, 141:           "reHjeucxtlieoyn  of Home
;; ;203 on Huxley as examiner, 256                           ;;       Rule Bill, 144                             sulphide "
on his ethnological work, 284;
takes over Fullerian Lectures, 315                                    at Harrogate, 145 visit to Arolla                           :
on Huxley's work on birds and
                                                                      death of a visitor British Associa

reptiles, 294, 303 on Huxley as                                       tion and Australia renewed desire
Secretary of the Royal Society,                                       for work, 147 transference of sen
383 takes over his lectures, 395                                      sation obstinate fictions of exami
helps in the new science teaching,
407 a New Year's guest, 418 on                               ;; ;     nees, 149; Delta borings gentians,
Huxley's work after 1870, 428 sq.                                                                          :
with him at Belfast, 444-46 to
help in Men of Science Series, 535                                    begs specimen distribution of,
assists in preparing new edition of
                                                         ;;           152; apology for intervention, 157;

                                                                      Royal Society and Imperial Insti
                                                                      tute Committee, 164 Science and
                                                                      Art examinations, 156 sq. pleurisy   ;
                                                                      his Jubilee honour, 177 convales       ,
                                                                      cence Marine Biological Associa-
Elementary Physiology, ii. 75 and
                                                   ;                          :

4«4 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

tion, 168 ; Arolla, 180 ; gentians                 Foundations of Belief, critique on, ii.
and idleness, 182 ; the P.R.S. and
politics, 185 ; at Hastings : Delta                418-23.
borings: Antarctic exploration, 188;               Fox, George, influence of,
                                                                                                ii.   283 as
                                                                                                         ;

keeps his promise to speak at Man                         compared with Franklin,                 325.
                                                   Francis, Dr. William, 78,                    114, 120
                                                                               i. i.
chester, in spite of domestic loss,                Franco-Prussian War, 334, 336   i.

191 ; technical education, address                 Frankland,  toS--ir  Edward,                 139,  257
at Manchester, 193 ; Hooker's work                    letters           on x Club,              260    Spottis-
on Diatoms, 182: I^ondon Uni                                                                    ;
versity reform, 201 ; Spirula : Dar                w"ooolddef'osgieislln"ess,Meini.ton5e4          ;
win obituary : "paper philoso                                                                      vigour of
                                                                        :                       earthquake,

                                                   174 habits of eels, 181 article on;          ;
                                                   "Struggle for Existence," 199; on
phers,'' 190, 191 ; peculiar stage of
convalescence : Challenger reports,                Royal Society federation scheme,

202 ; Darwin      obituary      fi"nisuhnesdel  :           201.
affection of the  heart :                          Franklin, B. influence compared with
                            an                              ;
                                                          that of Fox, ii. 325.,
fish request," 207; an amended                     Free thought, ultimate success of.

paper compared to Tristram Shandy's                                                                                    ii. i.
breeches, 208 ; a successor in pre
                                                   397 tone of some publications,
ib.;sidency of Marine Biological Asso
ciation,  Darwin obituary satis                           322, 406      W.     H.,              account  of the
                                                   Freemantle, Rev.

factory : Spirula : death of Matthew               Oxford British Association, 1860,                                   i.
Arnold, 209 ; open invitation to, as
a friend of Huxley, 213 ; at Maloja :              186 controversy with, on Bible
                                                            J. ;

                                                                         i.
                                                                                        i.

                                                                                            i.
                                                   teaching, 368.
Copley Medal, 202 ; leaves Maloja,                 French, knowledge of, 160.
216 ; unable to effect a meeting,                  Froude,        A., 330, 477, 479
ib. ; return home from Maloja,
                                                   Fullerian Professorship,                     87, 138  ;             re

204, 205 ; compelled to live out                   signation, 314.
of London : a cuttlefish of a writer,
                                                   Galbraith, leaves Natural History Re
222 ; climate of Eastbourne and a

priori reasoning, 223 ; children and               view, 225.
                                                   i.
anxiety : stays away from Royal                         i. i.Galileo and the Pope,ii.  122.
Society dinner, 224; Science and Art               Gallegos river, fossils at,     i.
examinations, syllabus : successor to                        , i.                     i.        276. 312
                                                   Gallon, Sir D., at x Club,,                     258
                                                   Gallon, F. on Committee of the Reader,
Huxley, 228 ; Monte Generoso :
his health, Sir H. Thompson on,                             227.

253 ; opposition to Technical Edu                  Geary, 37.                  i.
cation Bill, 254 ; sends photograph :              Gegenbaur, Professor, 176.    i.
proposed trip to the Canaries, 266 ;               Geikie, Sir A. sends proofs of the Primer
reviews of Darwin, Alpha and
                                                          to, 412.
Omega, 267 ; marriage and the                      Gemmation, lecture on, 151.
wisdom of Solomon, 252 : Booth                     Genesis, controversy over, ii. 123; re
business, a wolf by the ears : Salva               newed in Times, ii. 296 sq.
                                                   Genius, men of, "sport,"
tionists and spies, 292 ; Physiology,                                                                 259; as
Part 3 : name of house : a supposed                                     a
ancestor and benefit of clergy, 277 ;                     an explosive power, 384.  i.
Maloja accessible to him only by                   Gentians, study of, begun, ii. 146 sq.     i. i. i.
                                                                                                 i. i.
                                                          continued, 214.                                         ii. ;

balloon, 306 ; physiological omni                  "Geological Contemporaneity,"                                       220.
                                                   "Geological Reform," 333.                                            161;
science, 308 ; unequal to public                   Geological Society, Fellow of,
function, 312 ; physiology untram
melled at Royal College of Science,                elected Secretary, 166.
                                                   Geological Survey, work on,
331 ; Senate of London University                  George, H., Progress and                         154.
and reform, 334 ; Privy Councillor-                                                             Povertv,
ship, 322 ; public functions and
health, 354 ; sympathy for at                               245, 248                                  160, ii.
tack on, 363 ; Romanes Lecture :                   German, knowledge of,
Harvey celebration : symptoms of
                                                          420
                                                   German speculation, research and style.

influenza, 379 ; weakness after influ              i· ii.        360       D.  C
enza, 385 ; Nature dinner : award                  Gilman, Professor           J. i.            279.
of Darwin Medal, 409 ; avoidance of                Glacier ice, paper on,
influenza : Gordon and the African                 Gladstone, Professor            ,   1H5.5,. account of
                                                                                     i.
                                                         Huxley's work on the School Board,
fever, 421 ; joining the Horticul
tural Society, 445                                          339

                                                         INDEX                                                             485

EGladstone, Right Hon. W. ., and Meta                                Gull, Sir W., and F.R.S., ii. 119.
                                                                     Gunther, Dr., 416
physical Society, i. 338 ; not an ex                                                    i.
pert in metaphysics, 341 ; the great                                                            ii.
est intellect in Europe, 379 ; reaction                              GutzlafT, saying of,            133, 142
from, 525 ; a graceful action, ii.
15 ; function of, 286 ; attacks Hux                                  Haeckel, Professor Ernst, his Gastraea
ley in the Impregnable Rock of Holy
Scripture, 287 ; swine miracle, 288 ;                                theory, dependent on Huxley's dis
and Parnell, 291-93 ; typical of the                                 coveries, 43 Darwinism in Ger
                                                                     many, 287 unable to attend British
                                                                                    ; i.
                                                                                            ;

                                                                                                            ;
                                                                     Association, 1866, 277 and Bathy-
   century ? 396.                                                       bius,
controversy with,                on    Genesis, it       on11--4     Letters   to29--5   sq.           DieRadiolarien
                                of,                                                     on reading
    sqq. ; estimate                    130 ; letter                              ;
                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                        :,
                                                                     i.  255        dissuades him from joining
                                                                     Arctic
the ordeal of public criticism, 190 ;                                               expedition                 Darwinism

revived by others, 314 sq.                                           philological evidence in ethnology,
second controversy with,                                             266, 267 on his Morphologie con
                             i.                      425, 427        troversy, 309 marriage classifica;
                                                ii.                  tion of birds handwriting, 311:;
                                                                     von Baer's Copley reptiles and
                                                                     birds, 325 translation of his Mor
                                                                     phologie influence of children, 305;
Goethe, quoted,                   163; on "thatige                                                       :
                                                                                                                :
Skepsis," 181; his Aphorisms trans                                                                                      :

lated for the first number of Nature,                                                                                               ;

        351 scientific insight of, ii. 408;                                         :
Golf, Huxley plays, 390.                                                                ;
Goodsir, Dr. John, as man of science,i.

         102.                                                ii. i.  notice of the Anthropogenic- attack
Gordon, C. G. ideas and character,                                   on Darwin in the Quarterlv: Am-
                ,                                                    phioxus and the primitive verte
                    ;                                                tbiorante",
        94, 95, 100 why he did not have                                             457 Rattlesnake collec
        the African fever, 103.                                                      his Medusae unpublished
Gordon, G. W. executed by Eyre,                                                  :
                                                                                      :

                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                           :

                                                                                                                          ''
                                                                                                                                         :
                        ii. ,                                i.      Crayfish Spirula his children,

279 sq.                                                                       527.
Gore, Canon,                                                         Hahn, Father, reminiscences of Huxley's
                             269
Gosse, Edmund, anonymous reviewers,                                         impartiality in teaching, 428.
                                                                     Hamilton, on the unconditioned, 218,
ii. 153.                                                                                                       ii.
                                                                                                                     i.

Grant, Dr. introduction to,                              27 as                242
       i.                                                            Hand, lecture on,
          ,
                                                                     Harcourt, Sir W.
                  ;
                          ,
                                  ;
                                        i.
                                                 i.
                                                          ;
man of science, 102 an early evolu                                                         , i.490, 497
tionist, 180.                                                                                i.letter to,           suppres

Grant  (friend of Dr.             Dohrn),   from4--31.possi          sion of physiological experiment,                     i. i.
Grant  Duff, Sir M.                letter
                                                                              434
bilities of a political career for Hux                               Hardwicke, printer, 223-24.
ley, 380 Lord Rector of Aber
                                                                     Harrison, F., in Metaphysical Society,

                                                                     338 attacks agnosticism,
         deen,  4L2o0r.d,               from -- appoints                     ;;                          :                 221
Granville,                                                                                                          ''

                                                                                                                      ii.
                               letter                                sq. controversy with the Apolo

Huxley on London University Sen                                      getic Irenicon," 318 sq. attack of,
                                                                                                         ;

ate anecdote of Clay, the whist                                             philosophically  tbo o--rnsec,ien3c4e2
       J. :             59 a master of polished
player,                                                              Harrison, J., letter                           and    agri
                ,;
putting down, 178.  ii.                                                     culture, ii. 300.
Gray, Asa, misunderstanding of Darwin,                               Hartington, Lord, science should be
                        i. i.
                             ;
     ii. 205 appreciation of, ib.                                    aided like the army and navy, ii.
                                                                                    technical education,
Gray, E. introduction to, 25, 27;                                                   to -- Deceased Wife's                 165
                                                     i.              164      i. ;                                       Sister; i. ;
                                                                     letter
support from, 87 a zoological
whirlwind, 160                  ;                                    HartisBmille, re2,33.Lord, Vivisection Bill,
                                      ;
Green, T. H., 195 account of Hux

       ley's speech at Oxford, 199.                                  469.           216 lecture on, 485, 488
Green, of Leeds, to help in Men of                                   Harvey,
                                                                     article on, ii.    ;
Science Series,                 , i.  535.                                                     1       tercentenary, 362
                                    i.                                                           i. ;
Greene, Professor R.                   164, 209                                                       ,
Gregory, Sir W. H.,               with, in Egypt,            i.              sq.

                                                                     Haughton, Professor S. leaves Natural
                                                                            History Review, 225.
397 Governor of Ceylon, 404.                                         Hay, Sir John, visit to, at Tangier,
       ;

Greswell, Rev. Richard,                i.   182,      183, 187                                                             i.
                                            to,      on Home
Grey, Albert, M.P., letter                                           368
Rule,                                                                Head,   Francis,   "javelins,"      ii. 182.
                i. ii.132.                                           Healy,             Parnell,         292.
                     ,                                                       T., and
Griffiths, Mr. Secretary British Associa                                                       ;
                                                                                                    ii.

                                                                                                                i.
        tion, 441.                                                   Heathorn, Henrietta Anne (see Mrs. T.
Grote, George, and titles,                                           H. Huxley), engagement,
Grove, Sir G. a criticism,                  i. i.  386.                                                             36, 37 ;
                                                   324.
                ,                                                    description of, 40 remote prospect

486 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

of marriage, 45, 46 ; arrives in                               organisms, 356 Dana's obituary
                                                                  of Gray,        ii.;
England, 138.                                                  Letters to         --    i.205.
Heathorn, Mrs., i. 242.                                                                his          selection  for          the
                                                                                                 i.
Helmholtz,        i.  279.                                     Royal Medal,                        ;119; E. Forbes.
Helps, Sir              i. 279.
                 A.,                                           116; his approaching marriage,

Henslow, Professor, i. 90, 91, 182, 183,                       139 (two) submerged forest, 140;
                                                               British Museum Collections. 133
187; death of, 243; relation to                                science in the Saturday Review,                              ;;

       Darwin, ii. 42.                                         150 glacier paper. 144 Swiss
Herring, memoir on, i. 159 ; experiments                       trip, 156 election to Imp. Acad.;;
as to the spawning of , 166 ; address                                 :                    ;;
on, ii. 30.
                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                      ;;

                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                     ;
                                                               Caes.                 Fullerian Lectures, 161

Herschel, Sir John, i. 64.                                     o"n      criticism,          168       "  approaching
Hesitation, no good ever done by, i.                                Augustan              Age            of English
                                                                                                    on his Flora of
         401                                                   science,              171
Hippocampus, i. 191, 200
                                                               Tasmania, 164, 165 on natur
Hird, Dr. , presents testimonial to, ii. 73-                   alists' fund, 177 on Times review
Hirst, Thomas Archer, i. 243 ; and x                           of the Origin, 190 on the ape
                                                               question, 205 on Punch squib,
       Club, 257, 260, 261 ; character of,                     206 his absence: Edinburgh lectures,
       389; Royal Medal, ii. 66; illness of,                        ;;
                                                               210 Huxley's address at Geo
         196 ; death of, 352.                                  logical Society, 204 working-men's
Histology, work on, i. 159.                                    lectures, 1862, 207 Natural His
                                                               tory Review, 209, 210; future leaders;;
Historical Association of Lancashire and                                                        :;

Cheshire, presentation to Huxley,                              of science, 239 christening, 240
                                                               on Natural History Review and
         '· 335  Lord,           Huxley secures           in                                                                ;; ; ; ;
Hobhouse,

       tellectual freedom, ii. 430.                            materialists, 241 illness and death
Hockenhull, Swanus de, ancestor of the                         of Henslow, 226, 227                            move to
                                                                                                         ;
       family of Huxley, i. 2.                                 Kew a poor client, 232, 233                 ;
Holiday, work, i. 363, 479, 494, 495 ;                                :

       borne well, ii. 45 ; definition of,                     science examinations, 256 pressure
                                                               of work, 264 Science and Art
                                                                                          ;

59                                                             Department examinations, 274
Holland, Sir Henry, on Plato,                                  Darwin's Copley Medal, 275 on
                                 ;                  451.       x Club, 260, 261                                ,
Home Rule, letter to A. Grey, ii. 132          ii.                                                                     ;
                                                    ;; ;            Medical men and F. R.S. ii. no
        also 136, 176                                      ;;  distribution of gentians, 141, 142
Hooker, Sir D. his case a precedent,                           Darwin and the Quarterly reviewers:
i.
       ;

         J.

                   ;
                        ;,
    29, 57, 58 at Ipswich, 97 at                               chance and atheism, 153 death of
his marriage, 140 on Snowdon                                   Symonds: gentians, 171 theP.R.S.
with, 155 relations with Darwin,                               and politics, 185 his Copley Medal.       ;
178 on species, 169, 170, 177 at                               177, 180 technical education ad             ;
Oxford, 1860, 182, 185, 187, 188                                                             :;
origin of friendship with, 215 re                                           ,;                  :;              ;
                                                               dress at Manchester, 193 distri

monstrates with Huxley on excur                                bution of Coniferae, 194; visit from
sions into philosophy, 247 x Club,                             H. Spencer, 198 Trustee of the
                                           ;

278, ii. 128 clubs not for the old,                            British Museum story about Lowe
i.                                                                                                                            :; :
      ;;;;282 with Huxley in Brittany,                         difficulty of the Origin, 204 on
                                                               Dana's obituary of Asa Gray diffi
            ;                                                                                            :
                      ;                                                                                     ;
308 President British Association,                             culty of the Origin primer of Dar-
319 with Huxley in the Eifel,                                  winismus, 192; x Club breaking up,                 ;::
353 presentation to, at Liverpool,                                                                                      a;
360 on Huxley's intellect, 392                                 209 affection of the heart Mose
                                                    ;               ;
                                                            ;
trouble with official chief, 376,                              ley's breakdown, 210                                     Darwin

379, 383, 389 account of trip to                               obituary                possible senility, ib.
                         ;

the Auvergne, 420 sqq. receives                                hybridism of gentians, 220                                   no
                                 ;
Order of the Pole Star, 427           ;                   on   madic life or none deafness

Belfast meeting of British Associa         ;                   botanist should study distribution in

tion, 401,             413 unable             to write         the Engadine, 207; visit from, before
obituary of            Darwin, ii. 41;         P.R.S.,
    ;;                                                         leaving London, 221; Copley Medal:
                 ;
                             ;                                                         and salt - water
54 vigour of, 174 his treatment                                friendship               x archives a           "        experi
by Government, 176 friendship                                  ences, 225;                                              house
with, 225 Royal Society's Medal,                                                                         :
                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                              ;;
431 Huxley's love of the garden,                               hold animal of value," 229 De
                                                               ceased Wife's Sister question, 231
   443.          444   --on      his work  on micro            raison d'etre of clubs, 246 applied
Letters          from                                          science and the Royal Society, ib.

                                                    INDEX                                                                   487

Academy dinner: portrait of Hooker,                               Howes, Professor G. B. helps in the new
                                                                                          i. ,
248 ; Monte Generoso : called an                                  science teaching,             ;     378, n. ex
old gentleman : anxieties about                                   tends text-book, 409 on Huxley's                       ;
children when grown up : x Club                                                                                               I;. ii.
                                                                  drawings at South Kensington,
                                                                  431 unpublished work, Appendix
subscription, 252 ; return from                                       ;
Maloja, 241 ; orchids and the influ
ence of conditions : Balfour and R.                               reminiscences, 435 description of
                                                                                                   ;

C. University for Ireland, ib. ; possi                               his lectures,      438.          docker, ii. 388.
                                                                                        scientific    impression of
                                                                  Letter to -- the
                                                                  Hubrecht, Professor A.,
bility of becoming a pamphleteer,
261; proposed trip to Canaries, 266 ;
Linnean Medal : trip to the Canaries,                                    Huxley,  ii. 447.
                                                                  Hull, lectures   at, 257.
                                                                                        a i. i.
256 ; quietude of mind impossible,                                Humboldt, receives Royal Medal, 103a
theologians keep him occupied, 286;                               Hume, book on, 530-34 his nearest
abuse over Salvation Army affair,                                                              i.     ii. ; ;            i.
291 ; Carpenter's First Three Gos                                 approach to work of fiction, ii.                            7.
pels : varieties of pleurisy: Parnell,                            Hume, on miracles,
                                                                                                   532 his philo
                                                                  sophical diamonds require setting,
274 ; Parnell and his followers, 292;
sick of controversy : Gladstone and                                       ib.; onDirm.,poDsasirbwiliinti'es s,LL.D2.7,9
                                                                  Humphry,
                                                                                                                       ; i.481
his guides, 293 ; Mr. Rich's legacy:                              Hunterian Lectures,              132, 233, 244,
seeks portrait of John Richardson,                                                        i.
286, 287; visits toTyndalland Mrs.
                                                                  249; lectures the basis of his Manual

Darwin, 305 ; French translation of                                     of Comparative Anatomy, 254 re
essays on Darwinism, 309 ; the Privy                                     signs, 335.
Councillorship : only remaining ob                                Hutton, R. H., on Vivisection Com

                                                                         mission,       472 and vivisection,
                                                                         ii. 256.       See Scott, Mrs.
ject of ambition, 345 ; influenza and                             Huxley, Eliza.   i.
the .r, 331 ; funeral of Hirst, ib. ;                                                          ;
his sense of duty : death of Bowman,                                                                    6.
353 ; x Club : his grandchild on                                                                                     i.
grown-up people and trouble, 354 ;                                                                                       2.
Owen's work: Hume and "being                                                                                                i. i.
made a saint of," 341 ; warning                                                                                                 1 6.
against overwork and influenza, 385;                                                                                               ;
                                                                  Huxley, Ellen, marries Dr. Cooke,
                                                                  Huxley, George, of Wyre Hall,
                                                                  Huxley, George, sen., at Ealing,

                                                                  returns to Coventry,

                                                                  Huxley, Mrs. George, senior (Rachel
                                                                        Withers), mother of T. H. Huxley,
                                                                                                             love for,
at Maloja : boys and their acci                                   i.  1        description of,                               i. ;4
                                                                        ;                 ;
                                                                                                   ;
dents: collects essays: writes chapter                               her death,     83, 99
in Owen's Life : illness of friends,                              Letters to --    accommodation        ;3
364 (cp. 373) ; Tyndall's death :                                                                              at sea,
reminiscences, 391 ; the Antarctic
continent : reminiscences of Tyndall:                             30 Rio, 33 Mauritius, 36 de;                           ;
                                                                  scription of Miss Heathorn, 38
                                                                  Port Essington, 46 announcing his                          ;
                                                                  return, 64
friendly words, 392 ; chapter on Owen :                           Huxley. George, jun. in Pyrenees
a piece of antiquity, 395 ; British                                      with, 92 lives with,      ,
Association at Oxford, 1894, 401 ;                                       104 death of, 268.                i.for a time,
Darwin Medal and Nature dinner:                                   Huxley, Mrs. George, jun.,
                                                                  Huxley, H. letter to, on                      115.
                                                                      ;                                      his engage
                                                                            i.
                                                                                     ;

public speaking : a tenth volume of

essays projected : returns to philo                                            ,

sophy : Greek and English : cause                                 ment, ii. 268.
                                                                  Huxley, James Edmund,
of giving up dissecting work ; char                                                       ,               21.
                                                                                               i.
acter of R. Strachey : Brian and                                  Huxley, Jessie O.
                                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                      169. See also
the brine, 390 ; on Pithecanthropus,                              Waller, Mrs.
                                                                  Huxley, L. letters to-- on winning schol
417;     ilSlnpeesnscearndancdon"stpitouutironlealmteoruitgeh, "      ;                   ;
ness:                                                                      ,                   ;

                                                                                     8            ;
                                                                                       ;                     ;a
                                                                  arship, ii.             Fishery appointment,

       425 ; reassures him against the pes                        24 on Mastership of University
                                                                  College, Oxford, 34 assassination
     simistic reports of his health, ib.                          of Lord F. Cavendish, 48 pagan
                                                                  and papal Rome, 98 teaching of
Hooker, Sir William, i. 250.                                      history Siena, 97 system at Eton
Hornby, Admiral, i. 396.                                          Lake District Defence Society, 134
Horner, Leonard, i. 63, 204                                       hon. committee of French teachers,
                                                                               :                                             ;:

Horse, evolution of, i. 351 ; pedigree of,
420 ; recent additions to our know
ledge of the pedigree of, 503.                                    174 will not write on politics, 184
                                                                  Salvation Army Mr. Sidgwick's
Howard,  Cardinal,  97.ii.       to -- "a                             ;
Howell,                   ,                                                                   :
                                                i.                                                    ;
                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                                                 ;
         George, M. P.   letter                                   rebuke to the Speaker, 272 on
                                                                  building a house, 355 on his twenty-
man who did his best to help the                                  first birthday, 433
people": technical education, 510.

488 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Huxley, Noel, i. 158, 161 ; death of,                            aborigines, 45 with Kennedy, it.
      213, 8l6, 220                                              44 writes "Science at Sea," 50
                                                                 leaves Australia, 56 impression of
Huxley, Samuel, i. 2                                             missionaries in New Zealand, ib. at
Huxley. Mrs. T. H. (see also H. A.                               ;;               ;;
                                                                                         ;
        Heathorn), his chief critic, i. 324.
   Letters to--draws the sword, i. 70 ;                                                     ;
                                                                                               ;
       his lodgings, 71 ; help from Burnett,
       77 ; successes, 87 ; an unequal                                                                  ;
       struggle, 81, 82 ; resolves to stay                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                            ;,
                                                                 the Falklands, 53 position in Navy,
                                                                 59 returns home, 60 scientific
                                                                 recognition of, 70 early friends in
                                                                 London,           difficulties,
                                                                 82-85;     71         F.R.S.,                66, 68,
                                                                          elected
                                                                                                               72-74;

in London, 91 ; British Association                              misses the Royal Medal, 75 deal              ;
at Ipswich, 95 sq. ; jealousy of his                             ings of the Government with, about

rise, 105; Royal Medal, 109 ; suc                                his Rattlesnake work, 77 sq., 100,
ceeds Forbes, 117 ; post at School                               118; list of early papers, 75, 76;

of Mines, ib. ; Coast Survey and                                 stands for various professorships,

Edinburgh chair, 121-2;3 his future                              77-80, 100 leaves the Navy, 81
career, 427 ; Aberdeen address, 438 ;                            writes for the Westminster Review,
on British Association, Belfast, 413,                                     ;                           ;
414 ; Lord Shaftesbury, 428, 430 ;                                             ;                             ;; ;
Edinburgh lectures, 476 sq. ; second                             ;;92 delivers the Fullerian Lectures,                  ;; ;
summer in Edinburgh, 491 ; Ameri                                 86, 292 succeeds Forbes, 93 de
can trip, 493 ; Scottish University                              scribes the scientific world of 1851,;
Commission, 511 ; spring in Edin                                 92 jealousy of, 96, 97 his first
burgh, 512 ; article in the Echo,                                lecture, 98, 99 receives the Royal;
ib. ; Bright's speeches, ib. ; great                             Society's Medal, 101, 103, 105 (see
ness of Reaumur : speech on Dar                                  also 268) morning incapacity, 113
                                                                 people he can deal with, 115 lives
win's LL. D. , 480 ; Prof. Marsh's
                                                                 by his pen, 107, 119 obtains a post;
arrival, 530.                                                    in the School of Mines, 117 and
    Fishery duties, ii. 29 sq., 31; Inter                        on the Geological Survey, 118
                                                                 openness of dealing with his friends,
national Medical Congress, 35 ;                                  Hooker and Forbes, 119; Car
proposed resignation, 86 ; his stay
at Ilkley, 137 sq. ; publication of                              penter, i11 about a rejected me
Science and Morals, 156 ; effect of                              moir, 121 (see also ii. 175, 183,
                                                                 188) refuses uncertain position at
Ilkley, ib. ; from Savernake, 175 ;                              Edinburgh, 123 prefers a scientific
                                                                 career in London, 114, 115, 117,
from the Canaries, 269 sq. ; cere                                ;           ;
mony of kissing hands, as P.C. ,                                                     ;
                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                         ;;
       348 ; good health in 1893, 385.                           119, 120, 123, 124 his principle
Huxley, Thomas, grandfather of T. H.                             of "having a row at starting,"

                                                                 130 marriage, 139 sq. early work
                                                                 ;;
       Huxley, i. 1.                                             on the Invertebrata interrupted,
Huxley, T. H. , incident at his birth, i.
                                                                 143 paleontological work, 143
3 ; his mother, likeness to, ib. ; de                            British Museum Collections, 144
votion to, 4 ; his childhood, ib. ;                              on the value of a hundred a year,
faculty for drawing, it., 43, 269,
                                                                 ;150 tries to organise a scientific
                                                                 review, 139, 209 sq. (see Natural
415 ; school-days, 5 (cp.     ;      145,                        History Review) his wish to be
                                ii.                              come a physiologist, 151 writes
264 sq. early studies, 6-9 blood-                                on the Cell Theory and the Skull,
);                                                               152 ill - health during the fifties,
poisoning,;8        learns German,        ;9                                         ;
                  10                                                                                    ;;
boyish journal,        sqq. at Rother-
                           ;                                                                                           ;;

hithe, 11, 16; impressed by social                               ; ;; ;;

problems, 16 studies botany, 18                                  154 tour in Switzerland, 155 sq.
wins a medal, 20 at Charing Cross                                ascends Mont Blanc, 146, 159
Hospital, 19, 21-23 his first dis                                work on glaciers, 144, 147 appar
covery, 21 interview with Faraday,                               ent desultoriness of his earlier work,
;
               ;                                                 149 balance-sheet of work in 1857,
                      ;                                          148 begins the systematic con
                           ;                                     sultation of foreign writers, 160
                                   ;                             recognition abroad, ib. birth of
                                                              ;
ib. career determined by Fayrer

and Ransom, 23, 251, ii. 142;

enters the Navy,       i.  25 joins the                                                                          ;; ;
                           ;
Rattlesnake, 26 his life on the;
                    ;                                                                    ;
                                 ;                                                              ;
Rattlesnake, 28 sq. crossing the line, ;                         his son Noel, 162 his aim in life,
                    ;                                            162 death of his son, 163 posi;;
                       ;                                         tion in 1858, 169 ambition, 170
31 at Madeira, it. Rio, it. the                                  translation and lecturing, 171
;;                                                               money and marriage, 174 paleon
            ;
first fruits of the voyage, 36 at the
Cape, ib. Mauritius, 37 Sydney,
38 engaged to be married, 40
                                          ;                                                           '4 ; ;

importance of his work on the Me                                 tology and anatomy, 175 loss of
                                                                 priority through delay of Oceanic
dusae, 39, 40; among the Australian

                                                INDEX                                                                          4S9

      Hydrozoa," 164 ; his personal con                             with prayer, 365 on Education;;
      tributions to science, 177 ; effect on                        Committee, 341 religious and secu'' ;
      him of the Origin, 178 sqq. ; "anti-                          lar teaching, 367 sq. letters on the
      progressive confession of faith," 178;                        compromise and an incriminated
      one of the decisive critics of the
                                                                    lesson," 369 sqq. report of Educa;
                                                                    tion Committee, 372 sq. speech on
      Origin, ib. ; "general agent" to                              Ultramontanism, 348 sq. his lasting
                                                                    influence, 375; impression on fellow-
      Darwin, 171, 276 ; nature of his                                                           ;;
      support     of Darwin, 183           ; as Darwin's                                                ; ; ;;
      bulldog,      363 ; Descent          of Man, 172,             workers, 350 sq. examinations,
                                                                    374 extra subjects, ib. monetary
      178 ; takes up ethnology, 213 ; his                           ;assistance offered, to remain on

      philosophy of life, 219, 412 ; love
      of philosophy, 247 ; early life, 237 ;                        School Board, 379 sacrifices in
      moves to Abbey Place, 242 ; his                               volved in, 353, 354                         urged to
                                                                    stand for Parliament, ib. sq.
      handwriting, 230, 290, 451 ; on                               Secretary of the Royal Society,                                 ;; ;
      matrimony, 231, 289, 291; children,
                                                                    383, 120, and Appendix II.
      328, 210, 238 "Happy Family,"; ii.;                              ii.
          291 fondness for music, 250;                                                                           i.
ii. i.                                                              on Challenger Committee,                                   383
      health, 252 expedition to Switzer
      land, ib. Hunterian Lectures, 235,
                                           i.                       science teaching for teachers, 357,
                                                                 ;
        ;                                                           362, 376 sq. continues his educa
      312 the British Museum, 267 (cp.ii.                           tional campaign, 384 sq. ideal of;
                                                                              ;;                           ;
               ;;                                                                                                ;
        204) controversy,                       251, 482,           a State Church, 386 titles for men
                                                                                                   ;
488,              290 exhilarating effect of                        of science, ib. (cp.             ii.   175) edits
                   ii. ;
controversy,                   115, 116, 122, 145;                  Science Primers, 387 microscopes,
                                                                                                   ;

not inconsistent with friendship,                                   361, 362 at St. Andrews, 390 sq.                           ; ;;
                                                                    holiday work, ib. plays golf, ib.
414, ii. 187 (cp. ii. 18) reputation,
    250, 251 (cp. 427) ethnological

work, 283 vein of laziness, 290
                                    ;;                                                     ;
                                                             ;                                          ;;
i.                                                                  on strong language, ib. break
                 ;                                                  down of 1871, 393 sq. help of
                                                                    friends, 394 examines stores at
                    ;
appealed to on point of honour,

268, 269 science course for Inter                                   Gibraltar, 395; at Tangier, 396; in
national College, 290 sq. on Indian                                 Egypt, 397 sq. further treatment,
                                    ;                               ;
                                         ;;;                                      ;
                                                   ;
                                                                                          ;
                                                              ;;                                   ;
                                                                                                                    ;
anthropological scheme, 294 sq.                                     402 new teaching in biology, 405
Edinburgh degree, 296 the writ                                      view of, 379, 382 changes                                  the
ing of elementary books, 305 Ele                                    course, 409 writes Elementary
mentary Physiology, ib. incident                                    struction in Biology, ib.                                  In

                                                                                                                               new

      at working-men's lecture, 308                                 house in Marlborough Place, 412
      trip to Brittany, ib. anecdote of
''                                                                  sq. lawsuit, 413 loan from Tyn-
       ;; ; ; athe cerebellum, 315; on "eating                      ;
                            ;                                                               ;;

                                                                                                ;
                                                                    dall, 385, 386               mixed classes in
                                                                    Anatomy, 416 Lord Rector of
the leek," 318 rapidity of thought,                                 Aberdeen, 417; trip to the Auvergne,
319 influence of his style, 320                 ;;
the moralities of criticism, 300,                                   390 sqq. as travelling companion,
                                                                    ;                        geological work,
304 a good book and fools, 323                                               ;             393-95 Order of
turning-point in his career, 1870,
                                                                                 ii.
                                                                    391 (cp.          26);
                                                                    392 letters       on,         ;

                                                                                                        ;
322 popular view of, about 1870,                                    the Pole Star, 427 a paternal
323 effect of Lay Sermons, ib.                                      gander, ib. his reputation and the
growing pressure of official work,
                                    ii.                                ;
                                               ;
                                                   ;                part he has to play in the world, 427
                                                        ;           (cp. 460, 476) scientific work after
                                                                    1870, 398; precious half-hours, 397,
                                                                ;
      323 sq.  "  (cp.       428,          21)    dubbed            ii.
         Pope      by                           350 on                                ;
                        the Spectator,
                                                                                              ;
evolution of the horse, 351 influ                                                                               a
                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                        20; duty of fulfilling promise,                        i.
                                                                    430, ii. 70 learns to smoke, 393,
ence of Descartes, and scientific                                   »./ attends Presbyterian service, 407,
                                                                    408 at Belfast British Association,
Calvinism, 352 (cp. 122); visits the                                442 sqq. on "grasping the nettle,"
                                                                    444 feeling about vivisection, 434,
Eifel, 354; his degree of D.C.L.                                    435 sq. 439, 440 grouse-murder,
                                                                    485 Natural History courses at
                                                                    Edinburgh, 475 sq. suspects him
                                                                    self of cowardice, 491 expectation
                                                                    of his visit in America, 493; a second
opposed, ib. President British;                                     ; ;;
                                 ;                                        ,;
Association, 355 work on micro                                                                  ;
-organisms and spontaneous genera
tion, ib. sq. continued work on micro                                                              ;
           ;                                                                                            ;
                  ;

                            ;
                                        ;
organisms, 482 on savagery, 359

visits the slums, ib. presentation

to, 360 commerce the civiliser, ib.
                                                ;
attacks on his Address, 335, 336                         ;; ;       honeymoon, it. Position in the
stands for the School Board, 362                                       a
sq. his programme, 363 sq. op                                                   ;
poses proposal to open meetings
                                                                                         ;;
                                                                    world of thought, ib. tugs in New
                                                                    York harbour, 494
        ;                                                                                                  prefers the

                                                                    contents of university to the build-

49° LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

ings, 495; old opinions and new                                   writing, ib. holiday defined, ib.;                   ,;
                                                                  composition of a presidential address,;
truth, ib. ; at Niagara, 498 ; meets
his sister again, ib. ; an address                                65; confesses himself to Tyndall, 66;
                                                                  the thought of extinction, 67 "faded
under difficulties, 500 ; lectures on                                                    ;;
Evolution, 501 sq. ; prophecies ful                               but fascinating," 63 increasing ill-;
filled, 502 ; the two things he really                            health, 70      fgoirvwesarduptoanaanto"myIn, diiat.n;; ;
cares about, 510; posthumous fame,                                391 looks
                                                                  summer," 68, 81 re-reads the;;;
ib. (cp. ii. 277, 281) ; ingrained                                Decline and Fall, 74 rumoured
laziness the bane of his existence,

LL513 (cp. 290) ; speech on Darwin's                              acceptance of a title, ib. getting
      D. at Cambridge, 514 sq. , 518;                             into harness as a tonic, 85 ordered
help to a distressed man of science,                              abroad, ib. takes up Italian again,
516; "bottled life," 519; politics                                92 papal and pagan Rome, 86,;;
                                                                  88, 90, 91 a decayed naturalist,
in 1878, 523 sq. ; projected Intro                                will turn antiquarian, 90 Radicals
ductions to Zoology, Mammalia,                                                             a;
                                                                                               ;
Anthropology, and Psychology, 490;                                and arbitrary acts, 99 not roused
engrossed in the Invertebrates,                                   even by prospect of              fight, 102
                                                                                                                       ;; ; ;
526 sq. ; affected by his daughter's                              moral courage and picture galleries,
illness, 492,                                                     107 retires from public life, 104,
                  81, 87, 89, 95
;
                   ;3 ii.
                         i;b. ii.

                               1
                                  ;

                                       i.
                                             ;

                                                           ;;
rationality and the parental capacity,                            107 sqq. illness makes him shirk;
                                                                  responsibility, 112 (cp. 453) at;
192 traces diphtheria, 493                                        Filey, 113 medicinal effect of a
                                                                  book on miracles, 114 science and
Learns Greek,     Governor of                                                            ;
                                                                                           ;
Eton College, makes drawing part
                                                                                                   ;
of the curriculum, attends no society                                                                    1;
                                                                  creeds, 112, 161 intention to revise
                                                                                     ;

except the Royal and Zoological, it.                              work on the Mollusca, 130 writes
                                                                  From the Hut to the Pantheon, 34
fifty-three a youthful age, ib. resigns
presidency of Association of Liberal
Thinkers,         LL. D. at Cambridge,                            at Ilkley, 129 sq., 132 his career
;;                                                                indirectly determined by Dr. Ran
               1;0 5; ; ;4
                        ''

                                       ;
                                               ;

                                                      ;
                                                              ;;
ib. becomes a person of respecta                                  som's overworking, 142; visit to
bility," ib. "eats the leek" over                                 Arolla, 146 effect of, 147 second
                                                                  visit to Arolla, 180 sq. begins;; ;;
Bathybius,        advantages of break                             study of gentians, 146 theological;;
                                                                  work, a sort of crib-biting, 148
ing a leg,        faith in Natural Selec                          death of a visitor at Arolla, memento

tion, 13; "pretty Fanny's way."

14 optimism and pessimism, 16                                     of him, ib. his boyhood and edu
friendship and criticism, 18 further                              cation compared with Spencer's,
involved in official duties, 21 In

spector of Fisheries, ib. salary, ib.                             155 administrative insight, 157;;
duties of inspectorship described,                                his only sixpence earned by manual
                                                                  labour, 158 attack of pleurisy,
23-32 conduct of meetings, 28                                     165; Science and Art Department
;;
                  ;;
                       a
                                          i.
                                                        ;;
as a companion, 26 (cp.         421);
as a writer, 27 as a speaker, ib.
                                                                  examinership, 156, 157, 214, 235,
                                                                  236 reply to the Duke of Argyll
life uninfluenced by idea of future

recompense, 29    child's criticism                               on pseudo- science, 168; on coral
on, ib. refuses to go to Oxford as                                                                 thinks of
                                                                  reef theories, 158-60    ;;
Linacre Professor, 32, or Master of                               retiring to Shanklin, 174    ;; ; ;  TartiloSgayv,er-"
                                                                                     An Episcopal
University College, 34 debt to                                    nake. ib.;;                         ;
Carlyle, 36 health in 1881, 37                                                   ''
his title of Dean, 38 his nunc
dimittis postponed by death of F.
            ;                                                     1     sq. acknowledgment              of error,
                                  ;;                                69   letter on Murray's            theory of
                                                                  169
                                                        ;            ;
                                                                        ;
                                                                  coral reefs, 171 his own share in
                                                                                     ;

Balfour, 41; his notion of a holiday,                             the work of science, 173 (cp.

;45 (cp. 63) queer correspondents,                                412) speculation and fact, 173                       ;; ;
     ;46 sq. table talk of, in 1882, 45                           honorary committee of French
(cp. 427) presented with the free
          ;dom of the Salters, 54 President                       teachers, 174 supports free library
Royal Society, ib. sq. qualifications                                             ;
for, 51' 52 reluctance to accept,                                 for Marylebone, 164, 167 on titles;
55-57, or create division in the
                  ;                                               of honour, 175 the     oIrfisahge,qu"esluticokny,
                        ;                                         179 the philosophy
            ;                                                        ;
                            it
Society, 58, or to commit to de-                                  it's no worse," 177, 197, 199 death
                                                                  of his second daughter, 190 sq.
bateable opinions, 56, 57 (cp. ii.                                paper philosophers, 203 Trustee
120); art of governing the head                                   of British Museum, 204 consolation

strong, 58 a record in cab-driving,                               for age in past service, 198, 199
58 effect of anxiety on hand                                      the stimulus of vanity, 212 depres-
;
               ;

                                           INDEX                                                491

sion, 213 ; recovery at the Maloja,                        to Prime Minister, 336; opposes

214 ; renewed work on gentians, ib. ;                      creation of an Established Church

receives Copley Medal, 215 ; a                             scientific, 335 ; letter on scientific
                                                           aspirations, 341 ; on free thought
centre of society at Maloja, 218 ;                         ribaldry, 342 ; made a Privy Coun
receives a futile "warning," 219 ;                         cillor, ib. ; the title of Right Hon. ,

refuges for the incompetent, 226 ;                         348 ; official recognition on leaving
                                                           office, 349 ; visit to Osborne, 328,
battles not to   be  "mhuolutispelhieodld  beyond          329 ; a friend's second marriage,
necessity, 227;  a                         animal          351 ; friendship and funerals, 353 ;
                                                           the modern martyrdom, ib. ; source
of value," 229 ; appearance of, in
1889, 230 ; works at the limit of

his powers, 231 ; marriage of his                          of his ill-health, 333 ; faculty of for
youngest daughter, ib. ; hatred of                         getting, 356 ; on sacramental food,
                                                           357 ; poem on Tennyson's funeral,
anonymity, 233 ; settles at East                           361 ; a religion for men, ib. ;
bourne, 234 ; controversy on Agnos
                                                           funerals, ib. ; his part in the
ticism, 236 sq. ; aim in controversy,
                                                           memorial to Owen, 340-42, 364 ;
225 J?-. 235, 271 ; and in philo                           on bearing attacks, 363 ; proposed
sophy, 250, 281 ; on suffering fools                       working - men's lectures on the

gladly, 228, 233, 234 ; his autobio
graphical sketch, 245 ; superiority
of the male figure, 247 ; alcohol,                         Bible, 366 ; testimony and the mar
ib. ; clericalism, 249 ; second visit                      vellous, 368 ; Manx mannikins, 347 ;
to Maloja, 252 sq. ; returns to East                       home pets, 369 ; payment for work
bourne, 256 ; led to write on social                       out of the ordinary, 351, 353; on

questions, 258 sq., 261-66; manner                         dying by inches, 378 ; the approach
of work, 246, 247 ; practical results                      of death, 390 ; description of his
of wrong thinking, 265 ; marriage                          personality in Lankester's review of
and the wisdom of Solomon, 267 ;
      tPoenCealonpaer,ies2, 7026; 6-r7ec2ei;vesUlysLsiens  the Collected Essays, 393 ; letter
trip                                                       from a lunatic, 395 ; a contretemps
and                                                        at a public dinner, ib. ; at Oxford,
                                                           1894, 375-79 ; criticism of Lord
nean Medal, 272 ; the Flood myth,                          Salisbury, 376 ; repeated in Nature,
276 ; dislike to moving, 278 ; reply

to Dr. Abbott, 280 sq. ; quietude of                       377. 384. 387 ; deafness, 381, 429 ;
mind impossible, 286 ; on ethno                            growing hopefulness in age, 408 ;
                                                                                   Medal, ib. ; speech,
logical questions possesses the im                         receives  ;Dahriws in"  last appearance on
                                                           411 sq.
partiality of a mongrel, 286 ; per                         any stage," 386, 387 ; characterises
tinacity, 289 ; sends books to Royal                       his work for science, 412 (cp. 173) ;
College of Science, 295 ; rational                         late liking for public speaking, 414 ;
and irrational certainty, 298 ; his                        slovenly writing in science, it. ; life

aim, truth in all things, 299 ; new                        long love of philosophy, it. . the
house completed through Mr. Rich's

legacy,    286, 287   ; visits   Huxley                    abysmal griefs of life, 415 ; brilliancy
Hall, 306   ; almost  indecent  to be so                   of talk just before his last illness,

well again, 307 ; his garden, ib. ;                        420 ; a meeting with a priest, ib. ;
warns younger generation that the                          writes article on Foundations of
battle is only half won, 308 ; essays
                                                           Belief, 398 ; proof-reading, 400 ; his
translated into French, ib. sq. ; love                     last illness, 423-26 ; passion for
for his native tongue, ib. ; party                         veracity, 427 (cp. 429) ; absence of
politics and Unionism, 312 ; a                             dogmatism   in lectures,          ;    chil
scholar, not a leader of a sect, 319 ;                     dren and   theology, it.  4; 28'  '  Royal
backwoodsman's work, ib. ; a full
                                                           lies," 406 n. ; his great work, secur
life suggests more than negative                           ing freedom of speech, 430 ; care
criticism, ib. ; creation and provi                        lessness of priority, ib. ; recognition

dence, 302, 303; ethics of evolution,                      of predecessors, 431 ; honesty, ib. ;
                                                           loyalty, 432 ; friends and intimates,
322 ; underlying truths of many
theological teachings, ib. ; moral                         ib. ; practical side of his work, 433 ;

aspiration and the hope of immor                           how regarded by working-men, 434 ;

tality, 323 ; the world and comfort                        his face described, by Professor Os-
able doctrines, ib. ; President of                         born, 412, by Sir W. Besant, 435
                                                           n. ; his lectures described, 435-41;
London University Reform Associa
tion, 332 ; administration, 333 ;
appears before London University                           preparation for his lectures, 441 ;
                                                           ordinary day's work, 442 ; method,
Commission, 334 ; heads deputation                         ib. ; reading, 418, 419 ; memory for

492 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

facts, not words, 443 ; delight in                                   Irish trouble, 292 reason for being
                                                                     a Unionist, 312.ii.
literature and art, ib. sq. ; foreign                                Irving, Sir Henry, visit from, ii. 446.i.
languages, 444 ; recreations, 420,                                                            1
421 ; table talk of, 449 sq. ; the                                   Italian,                        ,444.
                                                                                                     ii. of , i. ;
happiness of others, ib. ; simian                                    Italy, visit to, ii. 87-110 moral of, 103 i. ;

characteristics of infants, ib. ; diffi

culties of disproof and direct evi                                   Jamaica Committee, 300-304.
                                                                     James, Margaret, grandmother of T. H.
dence, 450 ; Common Sense and the
Cock Lane Ghost, ib. ; transient in                                  Huxley,
                                                                     Jamieson, Professor E.
fluence of false assertions, ib. ; move                                                                              117.
                                                                     Jean Paul, Biography the Twins, 48
ment of modern philosophy, ib. ;                                                                                           i. i. i.
Plato, 451 ; geographical teaching,                                                                                               ; i.
it. ; Greeks and Jews, 426, 427 ;                                    Jebb, Professor, on Erasmus, ii. 419.
his part in controversy, 452 ; re                                    Jenner, and F. R.S.                                                  ;
sponsibility, 453 ; dramatic and                                                                              119.
literary faculties, ib. ; French and
                                                                     Jewsbury,         Miss,     friendship          with,       409
                                                                     Jex Blake,         Miss,     letters to                 medical
                                                                                                                     -- on

                                                                     education for women,                                          387

English artists, ib. ; human nature                                          about     her Pe.x, agmoiondatiaodnv.ic4e,17
                     ib.;                                            Jodrell, T.
described,                ;his manner of con                                           J.                                      95      at

                             ;                                                                    ;
                                 ;:                                         x Club, 279 wishes Huxley to visit
versation, 428, 429 anecdotes from,                                          India, 381 n.
429, 430 home life relations with                                    John Inglesant suggests a scientific novel,
his children, 456-59 and grand;
      ;
         ;
children, 460-65 nonsense letters,                                   ». 43                                           inaugural ad
439-41 a day's work in later life,                                   Johns Hopkins University,                       of his teach
468 love of his garden, 469 sq.                                      dress at,
                                                    ;                                     i. i.500.
                                                              ;
the "lodger," 456 sustaining power                                   Jones, Rymer, 102.
                          ;                                          Jones, Wharton, influence

of a wife's comradeship, 459 field                                   ing, 20, 21, 26 comes to his first
       botany.
Huxley Hall,    443                                                              , , i.                    ;

                i.        visit to, ii. 306.                                  lecture, 108.
                   i. ;2                                             Joule, Dr. his work for science, ii. 173.
Huxley Island, 46.
Huxley laboratory, ii. 277                                           Jowett, B. silence during opposition to
                                                                     D.C. L. for Huxley,
Huxley's layer, 23.                                                                                                  i.  355 visit
                i.                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                     from, ii. 306 power of the priest
Iddesleigh, Lord, letter to-- Civil List                                                  ;
                                                                                              ;
        pension, ii. 116.                                            Lethtoeor dt,o--401scienlcaest        illness of,     387.
Idols, tendency to make, ii. 67                                                                            at Oxford,       ii.    118
Ilkley, at, ii. 147, 168
Illustrious, H. M. S. ordered to join,                               Judd, Professor, theories of coral reefs,

                                                                     ii.         170.
                                                                                  ,
         74     i.                                                   Kalisch, Dr. zoological part of his Com
Immortality,                ,                                               mentary on Leviticus revised, ii.

                                                         ii.
                                                                 i.
                260, ii. 322 (cp.                       27,

         62)                                                                  297                B. on Vivisection Com
Immortality and the conservation of                                  Karslake, Sir        i. J.

       energy, ii. 299.                                                     mission,          ,
Imperial Institute, ii. 160-65.                                      Kelvin, Lord,                 ,
Impromptu speaking, ii. 440.
Incapacity, machinery needed                                                                                   i.
                                                                                                                                   i.
                                                                                              472.                   work      in sup
                                                                                             on Huxley's
                                                                     port of Darwinism, 224.
                                                                     Kennedy, E. B. his expedition,
                                           to facili                                                                                   42,

tate its descent,         384.                                               44
                          i.                                         Kerville,                           letter to -- Causeries
                                       i.                                        H. G. de,
India, proposed visit to,                  381 the
                                                    ;;
       shortest way home from, 375, 379                                     sur le Transformisme Lamarck             :                    :: :
Indian Empire, 524.                                                         atheism, ii. 172.
                i.                                                   Kidd, B. on Social Evolution, ii. 406.
                                                                     King, Clarence, letter to, on Marsh's
Individuality, animal,    i.  92, 131 lec                                        ,
                                                                                           i.
       ture on, 106.
Induction, and Babbage's calculating                                                            i.
       machine, ii. 278 sq.                                                 collections, 497.
Intellect, English and Italian the finest,                           King's College, London,                         rejected          for

341                                                                         chair at, 79, 107
                                                                     Kingsley, Charles, first meeting with,
                                                                                 131 opinion of Newman, ii.
International College, 290 sq. science                               i.
                ii.                                                                    ;
                            ii.
at, 331.                                                                 225     to -- on
                               ; i.                                  Letters
                                     ; i.
                                                 ;
International Medical Congress, ii. 34 sq.                                                          his    son       Noel's    death

Invertebrata, lectures on, 317.                                      his philosophy,                          233-38;on species
                                                                                                 :
Ireland, interest in,                                                                                  i.
                          44, 45                                     and sterility anthropomorphism,
Irish affairs,
                     274, 275 Pamell's re                            258         ;     inte"llsepcotrtin"  man and animals
tirement, 275, 276 the cause of all                                  genius           a                      Christian dogmas
                                                                                                         :

                                                          INDEX                                                                                493

criticised, 259 ; matter and spirit,                                      Laing, S. on Agnosticism,                    ; ii.                   235
261 ; on prayer, 266 ; Royal Insti                                                        ,                              ;
tution lecture : superstitions of men                                           sq.         ,
of science : working-men's lectures :                                                             i.
                                                                          Laishly, R. cites Huxley on secular

                                                                                teaching, 369 n.
original sin and Darwinism : whales,                                      Lake District Defence Society, ii. 144.
                                                                          Lamarck, early study of,
       276 ; on Jamaica affair, 281 ; on                                                                 ii.          180 Dar
       Comte, 322.                                                                                              i.
Kingsley, Miss, letters from Charles                                            win's theory not a modification of
                                                                                 his, 215, but an advance on, 245
       Kingsley,     i, 448   to --home                                          appreciation of, ii. 39, 408 not                              i. ;
                     letter                                                      forgotten in England, 172.
Kitton, J. G.,   i.                                pets,                  Lamlash Bay, naturalists' station at,
                                    i.
Klein3,69D. r.,                                                                    166.
Kleinenberg,                                       i.                     Lang, Andrew, Common Sense and the
                                                                     ii.
                  D2r5.8, on Hydra,             431.
                                              of Meta
Knowles, James, a founder                                                       Cock Lane Ghost,                450.

   physical Society,              337.                                    Language, Italian, ii. 85
Letters to -- toning              down             contro                 Lankester, Dr. Sec. Ray Society, 89
                                              a                                              ,                                             i.

versial article, ii. 125; reply to con                                    Lankester,      "  Professor   E.     Ray,   on Hux
                                                                                   ley's      Review of    the   Cell  Theory,"
dolence on his daughter's death a
                                                          :

loyal friend, 192 article on the                                                    152 with him at Naples, 400
                                                                                illness of, 402 on Rolleston's
                              ;;                                                i.
                                    ''                                                     ;
                                                                                                        ;
                                               :                                                           ii. ;
"Struggle for Existence" how to                                                                                            ;;,
                                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                                                  ;;
kill humbug, 199 reply to Krnpot-;;                                             science teaching, 377 n. 380 helps
kin, 199 refuses to write a public                                              in the new science teaching, 378
reply, ib. article on Natural Ine                                               describes lectures, 407 at Dohrn's
quality of Men," 243, 245; a telegram
                                                                                station, 450 review of Huxley's
and a telegraph boy, 259 article                                                                         371 impression
on "Agnosticism," 235; accused                   ;                              Collected Essays,

of calling Christianity sorry stuff                          a; ; :          of him,         --447L.ymnceus     as  periwinkles,
                                                                          Letters to

help to the New Reformation, 237                                                   440 battles, like hypotheses, not
                                                                                to be multiplied beyond necessity,
Christ and Christianity Cloister                                          ii. i.
scheme, 238 printers' errors, 239 :                                                  ;
aim in controversy named as;            :                                            227; immature fish, 249; Pas
                                           ;:
                                                                                teur's treatment for rabies, 254
                                                                                report of Pasteur meeting, 255
                                                                                science school at Oxford trouble
temperate               blasphemer               demono-                                                            ;
                                                                                                                         :
logy development, 239 reviling;: ; :                                                                                                    ;;
morally superior to not reviling,                                               over Booth affair, 300 ideal of a

226 explanation with Bishop Magee                                                modern university, 309,

ends controversy, ib. the last                                            mI^atham, Dr. R. G. stands for Registrar-
word miracle of Cana Newman,                :;                                   ship at London University,
227 supposed payment for Nine                   ;                                                                      i.
teenth Century articles, 390 sugges                                                                                               ;
tion of article on Foundations
                                                                                on the existence of the Established

                                                             of                  Church,     ii. 406.    Mrs.,  meeting                    with,
                                                                          Lathrop, Mr.         and

Belief: difference from Spencer's                                               498.
                              first instalment of                         Latin and culture,i. i.
views, 421           ;  the                                                                  i. ; , i. i.14.
the article,             ib.    the "art d'etre                                                     ;
                              ;                                           Latin fetish,                ; ii.437, ii. 202.
                                  ;
                                           ;                                                                         i.
                                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                        ii.
grandpere,"                422              divides the                   Latin in Board schools, 373.
                                                                          Latin verses, 298.
article, ib. work against time on
                  ;                                                       Laugel, A. A. at x Club, 279
                    ;
proofs, 423 rest of article postponed                                                                                                        meet
                                                                          Law,  ing with, 427.           of the word,                          156.
through influenza, ib. on friend                                                                        President of
       ship,                                                                                     abuse                                     School
Kolliker,     432.                A.,                                                261
              Professor       R.            corresponds                   Lawrence,          Lord,

with, 162; translation of his His                                               Board,       364 on Huxley's retire
    ;
       i.

                 ;
                                 i.
                                         ;;
                                                              i.
tology, 159                164, 245 reviewed,                                   ment, 349 leaves School Board,
269 criticism of, 327.
                                                                                400.
Kowalesky, his discoveries dependent on                                   Lawrence, Sir William, his book On
                                                                                Man,
those of Huxley,                  43 on Asci-                                                191 acknowledgment of
                                                                                ii. i.
Krohdni,anasn,ti3c3ip3ates his work on Sal pa,                                            ; ; i.

                                                                                                       ,;
                                                                                                                     :

                                                                                                                        i.
                                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                Elementary Physiology, 305.
                                                                          Lay Sermons, published,                   323 popu

92                                                                               larity of, 353.
                                                                          Lecky, W. E. H. letters to--on Hume:
Lacaze du Thiers, Dr. corresponds with,
                                                                                needless assertions and blunders,
    Uni162 on his handwriting, 248.

Ladder, from the gutter to the

       versity, ii. 164.
i.                                                                                   534 treatment of Irish history,
           ;

                               ,

                                                                                     47 books from Irish leaders,

                                                                                274

494 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Lectures, at Birmingham, i. 337,                       357            London Institution, lectures at, on physio
at Bradford, i. 362.
                                                                      graphy, 309, 473
on a Piece of Chalk, i. 319.                                                       ;
                                                                                            ; i.

                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                i.
                                                                                                                   ii.
                                                                                                                                    i.
                                                                      London University, examiner at, 148,
Croonian, i. 152.                                                     154, 238 science examinations at,
on Cuttlefish,                                                        256 on Senate of,
                i. ii.     14.                                                                              64.
at Edinburgh,                                                         London University Reform, ii. 326-37.
                           207-11.
Fullerian,                                                            Louisiade Archipelago,
            i.  138, 148                                                                                    54.

on the Hand,    i.      456, 497                                      Lourdes, miracle of, 421.

Hunterian, q.v.                                                       Lowe, Robert (Lord Sherbrooke), thinks

Introductory, to the course at the                                    Huxley should be at the head of
                                                                      the Natural History Collections,
    School of Mines, 148.      i.                                                  ;
on Invertebrate Anatomy, in Medicali.                                                         ;
                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                                     i. i.
                                                                      267 wishes him to be Trustee of
Times, 174.                                                           the British Museum, ii. 26, 192
         i.
at Leicester, 362.i.ii. i.                                            Lubbock, Sir John (Lord Avebury),
London Institution,                                                   163, 209 at Oxford, 1860, 182,
                                        171, 309, 356,                187; joins x Club, 278 with Hux

469, 473,               1

Persistent Types, 184.     i.                                         ley in Brittany, 308 presentation
Relation of Man to the Lower Ani
                                                                              to,  Mat r.L,ivearnpdoolt,he36T0i.mes                     of
mals,        192.                                                     Lucas,                                              review

Royal Institution,            i. i. i.  171, 191, 198,                      the Origin, 189.
                                                                      L"uLcurextiuMs,undi2,"45.controversy raised by, ii.
356, 442, 456, 457, 473,                          ii.  1, 48                       i.
                                                                                              i.

at School of Mines,                     148                                    276.
to working-men,                         138, 148, 179,                Lyell, Sir Charles, 63, 240; article on,
   190, 206 j?., 249, 337, 356, 400, 456
at Zoological Gardens, ii. 1, 14.                                           by Owen, 101 reads the Origin
                                                                             before publication, 178 influence
Lecturing, warnings about his early style,                            ii.
                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                ; i.

                                                                                                 of

                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                                        ;
             89                                                       of the Principles                     Geology, 181,

Leighton, Sir F. and literary honours,
i. i.                                                                              272 supports Darwin,                                 185
    1.
       ii. 176.                letter to -- morpho                    leads Huxley to take up ethnology,
Leuckart, Professor,   ,                                                 212 on editing the Natural His
                          i. i.                                       tory Review, 210 opinion of Hux
                                                                      i.
                                                 i.                              ;
                                                             3.                       ;
logical work, 162                                                                                     :
                                                                      ley, 217 description of his address
Lewald, Fanny, autobiography of, 326.
Liberal education, 320.                                                   at the    Geological         Society, 220.
Liberal Thinkers, Association of, ii.                                 Letters      from --on         popular lectures,
                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                                              i.
Lichfield, native place of Thomas Huxley,                             208 to Sir C. Bunbury, species

Liddon, Canon, abuse of the word                                      Letqtueersstiotno,--1o8n2. species,   ; i.           185 on
                                                                         skull measuring, 212                             on Man's
      "law," ii. 156; sermon on "law"                                                                                     ;
                                                                      Place, 214 reply to criticisms as                           ;
leads to article on pseudo-scientific                                              ;

realism, 167;                 sermon in reply to                      to the simian brain Darwin shows
                           "                                                                             :
"Lux Mundi                     occasion of "The
                                                                      a            vera causa for evolution, 215

Lights of the Church and the Light                                    simian brain, 216; on women's edu

of Science," 276.                                                     cation, 228 on Labyrinthodonts,
                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                  ;
Life, compared to whirlpool,                 i.        67                    263 work on fossils,                         especially
Lilly, W. S., replies to, ii. 154.i. i.           ii.                        from Spitzbergen, 306.
Linnean Medal awarded to Huxley,i.                               ii.  Lynton, holiday at, ii. 45.

         272.          a                                              Macclesfield, Samuel Huxley mayor of,
Linnean Society, elected to, 161.
                                                                      in 1746,     i.
Literary Gazette, notice of Huxley in,                                                 2.
                                                                                               i.
                                                                                                        i.
i.  98.                                                               Macgillivray, John, 32, 39, 42

Littlehampton,          324.                                          Macleay, Sir William,                 36, 38, 39
                                                                      letter to, on English scientific world,             :
Littre, Life of Comte, 323.    ; i.                                                                                               ;
Liverpool, address before the Philomathic                             M'Clu91re, Rev. E. letter to -- motive to
                        330 address before
Society,                                                                              ,

Liverpool Institute,                    ii.  43.                      get at the truth in all things im
                                                                      mortality and the conservation of
President British Association at, 331;
visit to slums, 359 moral influence               ii. i.              energy: thought as a "function"
                                ;                       i.            of the brain origin of sin, ii.

of commerce, 360.                                                                                    :
Lockyer, Sir Norman, Science Editor of                                                                                i.
the Reader, 211                                                                281
Logical consequences defined, 443.
                                                                      Mac William, Dr., F.R.S., 46                        ii.           222
                                                                      Magee, Bishop, controversy with,
                                                                      sq., 225, 226; end of, 227
London Hospital, address at, 70.

                                                                             INDEX                                                            495

Malins, Vice-Chancellor, remarks on the                                                      letter on preliminary liberal training,
                                                                                            it. degrees, 333.
       suit brought against Huxley,                       i. 384                      Men of science, the risks to be faced by,
Mallock, W. H., on Bathybius,                               170.                      i.
                                 ;                                                        ;
                                    ii.
                                                          ii.                                    ii.

                                                                      ;
Maloja, first visit to, 201, 205; second                                              203
       visit to, 252 sq. third visit to, 385
       memorial at, 386.                                                              Mercers' Company and technical educa
Manning, Cardinal, in Metaphysical                                                    tion,
                                                                                                      54.
                                                                                      Metaphysical Society, foundation of,
                                                                                      336 Mill's criticism of, 338                                 ; i.
       Society, 314                                                                   mutual toleration, 316, 317; Huxley
Mans Place in Nature,
              of of ;                                                                 ;

                       ; i.                          192, 198,
                             i.
                                                                                      writes three papers for, 318, 319;
                                   ,;
                                   i.

                                                   i.
                                                            i.

                                                         i. i.
199 criticisms and success of, 201,                                                   the name "agnostic," 343 sq.
202, 204 a friend begs him not to
                      iiH. .36L5.    ridiculed, 450.                                  his part in             it,                                  i. ;
                                        218, 242                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                          i.
       publish,                                                                                                    341 described by
Mansel, Rev.                                                                          Professor H. Sidgwick, 344.
Mantell, G. A., 101.
Manual Comparative Anatomy, 85,                                                       Mikluko-Maclay, on fish-brains, 358.
                                                                                      Milford, at,
                                                                                      J.                 58, 69 sq.

                                                                                            ;;
                                                                                                    ii.
         148                                                                          Mill, S., and International College,
                                                                                      291 opinions condemned by Ward,
Manual Invertetrate Anatomy,                                                 390,

                                                                                      347 burial of,                     19.
        457                                                                                                        ii.
Manual of Vertetrate Anatomy, 357                                                                                                i.
Marine Biological Association, ii. 136.                                               Miller, Canon, on Huxley's retirement

Mariner, on Tonga, ii. 132.                                                                  from the School Board, 349, 371
Marsh, Professor O. C. at x Club,                                                     Milman, Canon, invites Huxley to open
                                                                                      ing of new buildings at Sion College,
                                     ;
                                           ,

                                              ;
                                                                        i.
279; visit to, 494 sqq. on Huxley's                                                   ii.147
impartiality, 495 supplies anecdote                                                                                   i.
on advantage of breaking a leg,                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                                              ii.
                                                                                                                                                       ;;
                                                                                      Miracles, paper on,                490   (cp. 342)
                                                                                                                               arguments
              ; 10.                                                                   agrees with orthodox
                         i. , ,
ii.                                                                                   against Hume, 532 swine,                                77

Letter from-- on Huxley's welcome to                                                  miracles not denied as impossible,

    him in England,                  i.    530.                                                296 sq.
Letters to-- pedigree                      of the horse,                              Mivart, Professor St. G. his statements
                                                ;                                                                        ,
                                                      ;                                                                                 i.
                                                                     i.                                                                               ;
495 later discoveries, 468 his in                                                     about Suarez criticised,                                392

exhaustible boxes, 503 arrival in                                                     reminiscences, ii. 406 «., 410; de
                                                                                         scription of Huxley's
       England, 529.                                      i.                          Letter to -- Darwin's              lectures, 437-
Marshall, Mr. of Buffalo, visit to, 498.                                                                                 character and
Martin, H. N. helps in the new science
                                                                                      friends Galileo and the Pope, ii.
                                                                                                   i. :
teaching,                        378, 379 helps write                                 Moir,12D2r. . John, 438.
                                           ;

Elementary Instruction in Biology,                                                                         i. i.
409 American edition of the Prac                                                      Moleschott,
tical Biology,                                                                                           175.
              ;                                                                       Mollusca, on the Morphology                    of the
                       i.

                                  ii.
                                       1.
Martineau, James, in Metaphysical                                                     Cephalous, 76 aim of this paper,
                                                                                                                  ;
Society, 338.                                                                         92. 97                        ii.
Mary, Queen of Scots, ii. 47                                                          Moral sense,
                                                                                                      ii.  324 sq.

Maskelyne, Neville Story, 139                                                         Morality and nature,               268, 382
                                           ; i.                                       Morison, Cotter, on anonymous review
Mason College, opening of,                      ii.  14.
Masson, David,                       267 at x Club,                                   of Gosse,
                                 i.                                                                      ii.  144

Materialism,                                                                          Morley, Right Hon. John, at x Club,                          i. i.
         of, 321
                ;          224, 242 sq. accusation;                                       258; frionmM--etoanphhyissicaPlhySsoiocgieratyp,hy3,38.
                    a i.  sort of shorthand idealism,                                 Letter

         352.                                                                     i.     477    to-- proposed            book  on    Hume
Maurice, F. D. first meeting with,                                                    Letters

       131 and the Working Men's Col
              ;                                                                       article for the Fortnightly,             ;              456  ;:
                            ,                                                                                                        i.

lege, 149; his philosophy, 221, 244;                                                  a "consistent bigamist" in writing
                                                                                      for the magazines, 457 possible
in Metaphysical Society, 338.                                                         cowardice in not publishing paper
Maxwell, Colonel, 252.
              ,                                                                       on miracles, 491 on Physiography,
                              i.

                                          i.
                                               6,
May, George Anderson,                              11.                                                            ;; ;
May, Mrs. letter to-- ill-health in youth,
                                                                                      5"1D1 r. ;    article for the Fortnightly                    ::: :
         ''·  3DSr.,                                                                               ,Dizzy" on sea air: Darwin's
Mayer,                                          Dohrn,                                LL. D. 483 invites him for New
                      assistant to         Dr.                               ii. 91.                       :;

Mayer,          R. on conservation of energy,                                         Year's day, it. Harvey article
              J.
ii. 162                                                                               controversy foreign politics and the
                       ,
                                        ii.                                           British lion, 523 Hume portrait
                                                                                      Tulloch's Pascal: Clifford's char
                                                              i.
                                                                           ;;
Mayne, Captain, of the Nassau,                                               312                                               :
                                                                             405
Medical education,                         190, 310,                         279

correspondence in Times,                                                              acter, 531 thanks for Diderot
                                                                                                           ;

496 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

   want of a portrait : sketch of the                                                           " Past and Present," on twenty-fifth
   Hume: Hume not half a sceptic,
   496 ; the ' ' setting of Hume's                                                              anniversary, 377, 387; after-dinner
   diamonds" : cannot judge his work                                                                       i.
   in MS., ib. ; working on the Life,                                                                                    ii.
                                                                                                speech, 386, 390
                                                                                                Nautilus,
                                                                                                                  159.
                                                                                                Naval officers and scientific research,
                                                                                                                                                            ; ii.
   532 ;     Morley's       criticism :      division                                           45.
   of the    book, it.      , a critical     sympos                                             Neanderthal skull, 197, 273
                                                                                                           i.
   ium, proposed English Men of                                                                                       ,

                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                Necessity, 242
   Science Series, 534 ; on Spottis-                                                            Nettleship, R. L. at Arolla, ii. 180.
   woode, 54 a Newcastle society                                                                Newcastle, joins a society at, ii. 66.
   the thought of extinction, 62 pro
             ii.                                                                                Newman,           H., applied to for testi
                      ;                                                                                  ;
                                                      ;                                         monial,
                                                                i. ;                                        J.
   posed book on Berkeley, 86.                                                                                          21 his doctrine of de
Morley, Samuel, on School Board,                                                                                  i.
                                                                                                                         ; ii, ;
                                                                                                velopment,                        225 Kingsley's
                                                                                                opinion of, 240 cited by Huxley,         ;;
         367.               " Tenax                                                             240 effect on, of Papistry, 242
Motto of the family,                    propositi,"
                                                                                                how to turn his attacks, 297.
             119, 131
Moulton, F. to help in Men of Science
   i.                                                                                           Newport, George, 70, 92 as man ofi.
                i. ,                                                                                    science, 102.
"  Series,            535.
                                                                                                Newton, E. T. paleontologist to the
   Mr. Darwin's Critics,"               363 sq.
                                ; i.                                                                              ,
                                                  i.
                                                           ;
Mtlller, Johannes, on Holothuriae, 103                                                                 Geological Survey, ii. 226.
   his method, 103, 162 appreciation                                                            Newton, Sir Isaac, compared with
      of, it 39
                                                                                                Ptolemy, 215; a "sport," 259;
Mundella, Right                 A. J.,                                                          i.
                                                                                                    1.

                                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                                  , i.
                                                                                                                                             i.
                          Hon.          and tech                                                       and his title, 386.
                                                                                                Niagara, 464
      nical education,      ii.  166.   ii.  115.                                               Nicholas, Dr., master of Ealing School,
   Letter to -- retiring                    ;pension,

                                                   ; i.
                                                              ;;
Murchison, Sir Roderick Impey,                             68                                   Nicholson, Dr. of Sydney, 103.
                                                                                                Nietzsche, means to read, ii. 382.
   and experimental station, 155, 156                                                           Nordenskiold, fossils from Spitzbergen,
   and the Schlagintweits, 245 and

   Letg"teeoPr lhofyrgosicmicaa--ll oBanamseaislteecoutfrio,Lnif2teo9,6A"th3e2n1o.aneutmhe,     i.
                                                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                             603.                                Lord of
                                                                                                Northumberland, Duke of (First
                                                                                                the Admiralty),                   72, 100           29 sq.
       150
   i.                                                                                           Norwich, Fishery Exhibition at,

              J,.
Murray, John, on quarterlies, 211                                                                                                                ii.
                                        i.                                                                                                               i.
                                                         ii.                                                                                                 ii. 4.
Murray, Sir           theory of coral reefs,
                                                                                                Oakley, Sir Herbert, vicar of Ealing,
         168.                                                                                   Objects of the sea-shore, letters on,
Museum of Practical Geology, post at,
           93 catalogue for, 160.
Museum, paleontological, ideal of,                                                                     292, 293
   i.                        ;;                            131                                  Oceanic Hvdrozoa,                 75, 76, 132, 148,
           ;                                         ii.                                                 ;
                i.                                                                                                            i.
                                                             ;
Museums,              143 sq.    British, 144;                                                          160 loses priority by delay, 164                    ;
                                Chester, 136                                                            still of use in 1867, 310.
   Manchester, 146                                                                              Officers, retired, in administrative posts,
   Warwick, 144.                                                                                        ii. 49.
                                                                                                Official work, growth of, 428 climax
NNaappioeler,onSirIIIC.haarltetsh, edBersitcirsihbeAd,ssoci1a0t2ion,                                    of, 52.
             ,,                         i. i. i.                                                Oken, his speculations, 103, 141; ii.i.   i.
             412.i.,                                                                            Oliver, Professor, 210, 254i.        i.       ;
Nares, Sir G. Polar expedition,                                                                 Opinions which cannot be held with
Nashville visited, 498.i.                        447                                                                    i.                       ''
                                                   276,                                         out grave personal sin," 347.i.
Nassau, H.M.S. exploring ship,

         312                                                                                    Optimism,         236.                               of its
National Association of Science Teachers,                                                                                                           light, "
                                                                                                Origin of Species,                1"59a;    effect
       resigns presidency, 65, 66                                                                      publication, 179;
Natura non facit saltum not true ini. ii.                                                                                                flash of

        evolution, 173, 176                                                                     182 review in Times, 189 criti
Natural History Review, 225 sq. 224,                                                                                                             ;

         249          i.                                                                        cism on the, 273; influence                      of,  346 ;;
                                                                                                "coming of age" of, ii.                          12    sq.
Naturivai.ilva1l3S;eolefucnttlhiuoecnk,fyitntesosuttbws"teitafuoktr,ioon2f8o4faf i"thpsruionr,,

        duces state socialism, ib.                                                              difficulty of, 192, 193 and theory
Naturalists' fund, 177.                                                                         of evolution, 378                        ;
Nature, translates Goethe's Aphorisms                                                           Original sin and Darwinism,                  i.
                                                                                                                                                 297 (cp.
        for the first number, 351 article                                                       ii. 298).
                          i.                                                                    Orthodox Christianity, how regarded by
                                         i.                                                     many men of science,
                                                    ;                                                                                     221, 239 sq.
                                                                                                                                  i.
                                                        ;                                                                            i.

                                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                Osborn, Professor Henry Fairfield, re

                                                                                                miniscences quoted, 293 account

                                                      INDEX                                                                       497

       of Huxley at Oxford, 1894,          ;                         gical course, ii. 411 Encyclopaedia
        376 description of his lectures, 412           ; ii.                 ;
       impromptu lecturing, 440 simian                                                                      ;;
      characteristics of infants, story of                           work between H and L,                                   488
        Huxley, 449 n.;;                                                                                            i.
Ossory, Mr. with Huxley in Egypt,,                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                     impression of Huxley, ii. 447 as
                                                                     administrator, 434                         as lecturer,

                                                      i.             Lejt4nate3erwd6reindtow--" ittvbhhioegoohkuwisrh:dcoehldeilidc"draeutcneuty,dltiv4too5of9nh.smimann,otrree:
                                                             i.                                                                    ii.
Owen, Sir Richard, introduction to, 25,
27 visits, 64 supports claims of
                      ;                                                    307.

Huxley, 59, 60, 62, 80 at the                                     Parker, W.          K., and the               F.R.S.,           i.
                                    ;
Geological Club, 68                       ;his
as man of science,                  101
                                              ;
                                                               ;
                                           pay, 74                       270   to --        264     bids him remodel
                                                                     Letters          i.
                                           his Par                                               ;

thenogenesis, 94; civility of, 103; sup                              his work on the Struthious skull,
port for F.R.S., 104; breach with,                                   292 bird classification, 307 the
                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                               ;
153 at Aberdeen British Associa                                      style of his Frog paper, 447 work
tion, 155, 157 his morphological
speculations, 171 the British Cuvier,
     ;                                                               on the Amphibia, 416 sq. interest
                ;                                                        in the Invertebrata, 491
                                                                  Parnell, C. S. his great qualities, ii.
                          ;
                             ;
                                                ;
161, 163 style of, 191 on the                                                ;
Ape question at Oxford, 180, r86,                                                 ,

                                                                                         ,
                                                                     126 retirement, 292.
191, 192, 200; at Cambridge British                               Parslow, Darwin's old butler,
Association, 213 on air-cells of                                                                                ii.   305.
birds in flight, 228 criticises Darwin                                                                              ; i.

                                                                                                                                ;
                         ;;                                       Pasteur, L. Huxley repeats his experi
                                 ii.
                                     ;;;                             ments on micro-organisms,                               356
                                             i. i. ;
on    spontaneous        agrteicnleeraotinon,"        244  ;;        Pasteur and pebrine, ii. 284 typi
248      author of                                    Oken
                                                                         cal of the century 396.
                                                                  Pasteur Institute, letter to the Lord
and the Archetvpe," 250 his books;                                                      ii.
             :;asked for by Dohrn,                                   Mayor on,                     ?
to be          on Hooker, 419 Mrs.                    4C0a5 r                                 254.
attack                                                            Paton, Miss, of St. Andrews, 390.
                                                                                                                i.

lyle's saying about,                   178 death                  Pattison, Mark, in Metaphysical Society,
of, 361 statue to, 340 review of
                                                                           3M
                                                                  Payne, ]., on science in public schools,
his work a piece of antiquity, 395                         ;; ;      i. '.
review of, in Nature, 396.                                                      ,
                                                                                    i.
Owens College, governor of,                                          299.
                                                                  Payne, Dr.
                                                      420                               537.     K., on Huxley's
opening of, 433.                                                  Pearson, Professor
                                                                                                 University Reform,
Oxford, compared with London,                         154            work in London

Huxley refuses Linacre Professor                                     313          at Arolla,
                                                                  Peile, Dr.     Professor,       ii. 180.
ship, 169 invited to accept Linacre;               ,              Pelseneer, ;,                  letters to     --  intention
Professorship a second time, ii. 32;                         ;
invited to be master of University                                   to revise work on Mollusca, ii. 129                          :; ;
College, 31 receives D.C. L. 105,
11o; science at, 118, 119, 282;                                      Molluscan morphology, 275 com              ;
letter on chair of English Literature,                               pletion of Spirula memoir, 383                 i. i. ;
301 addresses at, a contrast,                                        early morphological ideas confirmed

     ;                                                                   publication, 362
                                                                  Pelvis in Mammalia, ii.
        356                                                                                      ;
Oysters, on, ii. 52.                                              Penmaenmawr, writes Hume at, 531.    i. 1.
                                                                  Percy, Dr. John, at School of Mines,
Paget, Sir James, address from, at                                                                                                i, i.
                                                                        m-14
Medical Congress,             i. ii.  35 supports
                                       ;                          Pfliiger, a physiological experiment,

       London  University           Reform,        31"4The        "      437     Basis of Life,             On the,"         299  i. ;
Paleontology,    work at,                  142;                      Physical
                                                                     "the boldest act of his life," ib.
Method of Paleontology," 143 rise
                                                   ;

and progress of, 36 would haveii.   ;                             Physiography, lectures, inception of,
led to invention of evolutionary
                                                                     299 lessons in, 308 sqq.
                                                                  Physiography, published, 476 adapted
hypothesis, ib.
Paley, Evidences, and argument from
                                                                     in Germany, 511 a boy's apprecia
                                                                     tion of, ib.
design, 62.
        i. ii.                                                    Physiology, study of, compared to the
Pangenesis, 289.
Pantheon, admiration of. 126                                         Atlantic,                              Elementary In
                                    ii.                                          i.         407  ;
                                                    i.                                              ''
                                                            ;
Parker, T. Jeffery, on Huxley and the                                struction in," 507.                               ii.
                                                                                                                               ii.
practical teaching of biology, 406                                Plants, sexes of, and Shakespeare,

;sq. teaching by types, 408                                          232.
persuades him to change course of
                                                                  Plato, opinion of his philosophy,                               451.

teaching, 409, and to alter biolo-                                Playfair, Lyon (Lord Playfair), at School

VOL. II                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                2

4^8 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

     of Mines, i. 124; on Fishery Com                                     Quarterlv Review, attack on Darwin,
     mission, 252 ; Vivisection Bill, i.                                            a J.

                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                 i.

                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                          i.

                                                                                                                                  i.
                                                                                                                                       i.

                                                                                                                                             i
     436. 438                                                                    425 "I-                                                    94
Political  Economy, method of, ii.                                        Quekett. T. unfairly treated,
Pollock,   H., at Lynton, ii. 45.
                                                         407.             Radiata, zoological lumber-room, 58,

Pollock, Dr. Julius, i. 537 ; at Lynton,                                  Ramsay, Sir A. C
     ii. 45-
Pollock, W. F. , on Committee of the                                                                         139, 382
                                                                          Rankine. Professor, presentation to, at
     Reader, i. 227 ; and Tyndall's ab
                                                                                 Liverpool,                335
        sence, 420.                                                       Ransom. Dr.,                indirectly  determined                    his
Port Essington, i. 43, 45
Positivism, the scientific aspects                       of, i.                  career, ii. 142.
                                                                          Rathbone, P. H. presides at the Sphinx
                                                                                    i. a
                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                    ,
     299-301 ;         ii.    318 sqq.                                           Club dinner to Huxley, 360.
                             i.                                           Rathbone, W. wishes to send Huxley
Possibilities and impossibilities, 296 sq.          ii.                                                      i.
                                                                                                                     i.
Posthumous fame,                 510.            to -- Genesis                   on visit to India,                 381.
                                                                          RRaattthlekesn, ake,152.H.M.S.,         enters,
Poulton, Professor, letter

     and inspiration Canon Driver's                                                                                                     i.  26  ;; ;
                              i.
       criticisms, ii.           :                                        quarters on, 26, 28 life on, 30
"  Pour le merite,"           117                                                                                 ;
                                   427.                                                                                  ,
                                                                          sq. voyage of, 33 sq. 44 sq.
Powell, Rev. Montague, on Huxley and                                      effect on Huxley's development, 61i.
                                                                               ;
        the scientific docker. 367                                        Voyage of the, reviewed by Huxley,
Practical Biology, adapted for America,
                                                                                     50 sq.
     ii.                                                                  Ravenna, ii. 92.
         1                                                                Ray Society, helps
                                                                      i.
lVactic.il life as a rule-of-three sum,                                                                      publish               Huxley's

         406                                                                     early papers, 75. 90 translation
Prestwich, Sir Joseph, his Geology and                                           of Haeckel's Morphologic 305
                                                                          Read, Charles, on Huxley's retirement
                                                                                                        i.
                                                                                                                          ;

   letttheersGetnoe--sisonconptrreosviedresnyc,y
                              : i.                     117                       from the School Board,                            349
                                             ;      of Geolo              Reader, the, 227.
                                               ii.                                               i.
     gical Society,                 334 the Privy                                                                              i.
     Councillorship              temporal and other
                                                                          Reaumur, on the six-fingered Maltese,                                 i.

     deserts,  , ii.                                                      185 appreciation of,                                408, 480
                       347.                                                         ;
Price, Professor Bartholomew, letter to                                                     i.
                                                                                                   i.

                                                                                                                         ii.
     -- D. C. L. ii. 18 gaps among                                        Reconcilers, 258.
                                                                          Red Lion Club, 87, 91
       friends, 128.            1                                         Rede Lecture, on the Pearly Nautilus
Priesthood, power of,              i. i. ii.                              and Evolution,
Priestley, address on,                       402.                                                       a    57, 59
Primer, Introductory,                  ;    408, 410                      Reeks, Trenham,                  i.
                                            390, 490, ii.                                                      ii.
                                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                             167 on the tem
                                                    i.                    perature of letter from Tyndall,
Primrose, H. dines with, ii. 31.                         i.
Pritchard, Professor, and Metaphysicali. ,                                401
                                                            2.            R"eRfoerhmmaetiso,n",  the New,
                                                               i. ii. i.                            115, 296         427.
     Society, 314                                                                                ii.
                                                                                                                     i.

                                                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                                                                   ;
Promotion by seniority,             i.        312.                        Reid, Sir John Watt, at Haslar,                                   24
                                        ii.
Protest, a theological, 504 sq.                                           advice. 56
Providence,                                                               Religion and morality, defined, 343 n.
            ii.        302. 303                                                                                                    i.
                1 ii.
Psychology, projected introduction                       to,              Religion   for men,           ii.  339
                                                                          Renan,    typical of          the  century?
         490.                                                                                                                      ii.  396.
Ptolemy compared with Newton, 200
Punch, squib on the Ape question, 1,                                      Rendu, on glaciers, 440.
                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                                                           ii. i.
     191, 200; cartoon of Huxley,                                         Reptilia, fossil, memoirs on, 164.
                                                                          Responsibility, illness and,
                                                                                                                                   104 (cp.

     26 n.                                                                       428)
                                                                          Retirement,
Pupil teachers,        ii.    166.                                                               ii.  104, 107 at the age of
                                                                                                     ;            ;

Puritanism, in action and belief,                                         sixty, 117 pension, 117 sq. re                                    ;
                                                                          mains Honorary Dean of College of
Pusey, opposes D.C. L. for Froude and                                     Science, 116 Civil List pension,
                                                                                                        ;
                                                                          ib.
      Huxley,                 354.
     Smith, Dr.,                    258.
Pye        i.                                                             Reville, Dr., attacked by Gladstone, ii.
                i.
Pyrosoma,           i. 62 further                observations                  "4. "5
                          ; i.
     on, 227.                                                             Ribaldry, heterodox, worse than ortho

                                                                          dox fanaticism,                    322, 406ii.
                                                                                                                      i.
Quain, Dr. Richard, President                                                                                                                   ;
                                                          Royal           Rich, Anthony, legacy from, ii. 304.
        College of Surgeons, 336.                        rise of          Richardson, Sir John, selects Huxley for
Quakerism, rise of, compared to
                              ii.                                         slectiteenr titfoic--eoxnpewdiotrioknd, one2d4,uri2n5g,            27
     Christianity,                           i.                                                                                             voy
                                267

                                                    INDEX                                                                                       499

      age, 62; meets again, 71 ; 94;                                           Romanes. Mrs., a "chirrupping " accept
       seeks portrait of, ii. 287                                              ance of an invitation,
Rigg, Dr., on Huxley's retirement from                                         Letrtueprpintog --"                ii. 373.
                                                                                                    publication  of the                        chir
                                                                                                        letter   refrains                      from
       School Board, i. 375.                                                                      ;
Riley, Athelstan, attack on the compro                                                                              :
                                                                                                                                           ''
                                                                               "touchinga wound he cannot heal,"

         mise, ii. 406.   letter   to-- work       and                                ii. 403 guards against possible
Ripon, Bishop of,                                                                     misrepresentations in the letter, 404.
                                                                               Romanes Lecture, theme of, anticipated
       influence of men of science, ii. 172.                                   in the "Struggle for Existence," ii.
Riviere, Briton, R.A. , letter to -- science

       training for his son, ii. 338.                                          187, 303, 334 special inducement,
Roberts, Father, on Galileo and the Pope,                                                             ;
                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                               370; letters on, 350 sq., 354-57;
       ii. 113                                                                 criticisms on, 352, 358-60 descrip
Robinson. Dr. Louis, simian character                                          tion of, 378 sq.
                  in infants, ii.
         istics  Rev. William,     449.  Sion  House                           Rome, ii. 93-103.                 to -- on Science
Rogers,                              at                                        Roscoe, Sir Henry, letters
meeting, i. 325 ; letter to -- on
                                                                               Primers,               387 advice to stay at
                                                                                                    : i.
                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                      :;
                                                                                                                                                    ;
       physiography       letcotu--resR, omi.an332a.rchitec                    Owens College, 381 Rritish Associ
Roller, Mrs. , letters                                                         ation 1872 health Primers, 382

ture : Catacombs,            ;           95 endless                            appointments at Owens College,
                                ii.      ;
sights of Rome, 105 Florence, 100                        ; ;: ;                420 tour in Auvergne, 424 open
trench women and French dishes                                                 ing of Owens College, 433 on
                                                                               Men of Science Series, 499, 500
                                                                               second sketch of Introductory Science
superiority of the male figure, 247                                            ;
money and a new house, 294                                                                ii.
birthday letters good looks as a                                                               ;2
child, 305 love of children the
                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                          ;
                 ;                                                             Primer,                      on his knighthood,
                          :
                                               :                               71; attack of pleurisy, 166; tech

       "just man who needed no repent                                          nical education, 165              ;                         sectarian
      ance" as a father, 351; "the                                                                                    a
      epistle of Thomas." 440                                                  Rosebtreariyn,ingLocrodll,egelestt,er1s66.to-- deputa
Rolleston, Professor G. visit to, 165                                          tion on London University reform,
       work on the simian brain, 190,
                          ;              ;          ;;                         ii. 336 a contretemps at a public
                               ,             , i.                                                 ;
i.     191 characterised, 225 teaches                                          dinner,              ii.395.
       ;biology by types, 377 n. 380                                                                                     i.
       death of, ii. 32 asked to succeed,                                                                                                i.
       ib.                                                                     Ross, Sir James,       meeting    with,                         89
   Letter to -- his recovery, 434.                                             Rosse, Lord, P.        R.S.,      78;                       his help,
Roman Catholics and physical science,
                                   i.                                                   103, 107
                                                                               Rousseau, ii. 263.
                                                                               Royal College of Science, to be kept clear

             330.            G. J.,                                            of new University scheme,                1 ; ii.              311 sq.
Romanes, Professor
                                         evolution  of                         Royal Society, and Huxley's early

        intellect from sense,            121; inter                                                   56, 60, 62, 66, 71, 75
                                   ii.                                         papers,            i.                                            ;
                                              ;
        pretations of Darwin, 192 fatal                                        elected Fellow. 67. 96 nearly re
   illness       of, ii.                                                       ceives Royal Medal, 75 elected on ; ;;
Letters          to --     387.    refusal     to                              Council, 87; Medal, 101, 103, 105;
                          on his                   join

        Association of Liberal Thinkers,                                       his work as Secretary, 348 duties
                                               :                               of Secretary, ii. 87, 90 resignation
                                                        ii.                    of Presidency, 71, 73, 75-77, 107
3;               his obituary of Darwin for                                    admission of medical men, 19 sq.
       :Nature, 38, 39 alleged presup
        position of design in evolution liars                                                                                                  ;111 ; ;
                          ;
                              ;                                                evening meetings and smoking,
and authors should have long
memories, 200 experimental evolu
                                                                               politics and the Presidency, 184-88;

        tion, 310 illness of type of the;;; :                                  federation scheme, 201 dealings   ;
        empire and Home Rule, 333                                              with Huxley, 226 alleged ignor
        adumbration of the Romanes Lec              :: ;                                                    ;

                                                                                     ing of distinguished men, 364 Fee                       ;
                                                                                      Reduction Fund, 343
ture Madeira, 334 his poems                                                    RUcker, Professor, and new University
a wife-comrade a religion for men
                          :

        Tennyson poem, 360 the Romanes                                                scheme, ii. 331.
        Lecture: a doubtful promise, 371;                                      Ruskin, breach of confidence touching

        ready to act as substitute for Glad                                               letter of his, ii. 139.
        stone subject, 372 Gresham Uni                                         Rutherford, Professor, helps in the new
                 :                                                             a
                      .                                                                                i.
                                    ;:
                                                                                                                i.
                                            ;                                                                        ;
                                                                          :;;
        versity scheme payment for lec                                                                                           ;
                                                                               science teaching, 407.
        ture, ib. limits of the subject, 353
        proofs seen by Romanes, 375                                            Sabine, Colonel,             80, 90, 104 and the
        dangers of. ib. illness of friends
        the approach of death, 368                                             Schlagintweits, 245 and Darwin's

                                                                               Copley Medal, 255

                                       LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Sacramental food, ii. 357.                                                       Science, Biological, and Medicine,                        ; ii.      34.
St. Andrews, Lord Rectorship, i. 372, 481
St. Andrews, sends his son to, i. 513.                                           Science Primers begun,                i.      387.
                                                                                                                           i.
                                                                                 Science teachers, need of, 299.
                                                                                 Science teaching scheme for the Inter
St. Thomas' Hospital, lectures at, i. 118.                                                   i.
Salisbury, Lord, interview with, on liter                                        "      national College,i.        i. i. 331.
   ary and scientific honours,                                                      Scientific Education,"             i.    330.
                                   ii.                             164                            J. ,
                                                   ;                             Scientific missionaries, 406.
                                                                                                            :
                                                                  ii.
                                                                             ;;
   seconds vote of thanks to, as Presi                                           Scott, D. H. extends text-book on Bio

   dent of the British Association, 399
   criticism in Nature, 377, 384                                                           logy, 409.
Salmon disease,                        24, 29 Memoir on,                         Scott, John Godwin,
                                                                                                                   i.  18.

         39.  4°     " playground,"                                              Scott, Mrs.                 G. (Eliza Huxley),                       visit
Salmon,       their
                                                           ii. 29                       to,     4t9o8--. prospects
              57. 75 aim of his work on,                                            Letters                                of Rattlesnake
Salpa,  ; i.
                          ;

                                ii.
   92 anticipated in, 100.                                                                 voyage,           25, 26 first scientific
                                                                                                     i.
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                        ;
Salters' Company, present Huxley with                                                      memoir, 35 engagement, 40 last
                                                                                           cruise and Kennedy's expedition,
   their freedom,                        54.

Salvation Army controversy, origin, ii.                                             '·     44 return and ambitions, 65
                                                                                         ;;character of Forbes, 103 death of
                                                                                           his mother first lecture irony of
        271 progress of, 272, 273                                                                       :
Samuelson, Mr. letter to, on clerical                                                                             ;;
              ;                                                                                                         ii. :
                       i.
                                                                                                                                  ; :;
                            ,                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                                                                                     ;: ;
       attacks, 360.                                                                       his position, 108 Royal Medal
Sanderson, Sir Burdon, Vivisection Bill,                                                   people he can deal with, 115
                                                                                           Science and Mammon, 116 rounds
        437, 438 discussion with Tyn-
   ;4 i.                                                                                   the Cape Horn of his life, 127 posi

         J.

                    ;
                      ,

                         ;
   'dall, 482 dines with,                              ii. 35.
                                                                    i.
Sandon, Lord, leaves School Board, 400.                                                    tion in 1858, 168 his home in 1859,
Sandys,       E. his speech presenting                                                   173 his reputation
                                 L--L."                                          Sea serpent, letters on,                      slavery, 272.
   Huxley for                            D. at  Cambridge,              ii.                                                    346, 347
        letter to                        tenax   propositi,"
                                              i,                                 Selborne, Lord, in Metaphysical Society.
                                                     i.
Satan, the prince of this world,                           ii.     303,                     314
                                                                      5.         Sensation, lecture on,
         357. 359. 383                                                           Seth, Professor, letters to -- thanks forii.
Saturday Review, science in, 150.                                                                                      1.
Sauropsida, 316.
Savages, interviews with, 51i.                                                             understanding him conditions of
Savigny, his observations on Salpa sup                                                         ,
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                      :
                                                                                                                         ::

                                                                                                                             ii.
                                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                                                                       i.
                                                                                           Romanes Lecture Faraday on
                                                                                           popular audiences, ii. 380 Pro
                                   62 his morphological                                    legomena Spinoza, 360
   plemented, i.                         ;                                       Sexton. T. and Parnell,
                  i.                                   i.
   method adopted, 100.                                                                                                             292.
Schlagintweit, the brothers, 245.                                                Shaftesbury, Lord, quotes Huxley's de
Schmitz, Dr. L., head of International
                                                                                           finition of religion and morality,

   College, 291.                                                                           343 n. charges him with advocat
Schomburgk, Sir Richard, 255.                                                              ing vivisections before children, 428
School Board,                    work on,     i. i.                                            lDetrt.erWfirlolimam, ,46h1e. lp
       campaign                  continued      in 36" 2A-8d0minihsis;                    sq.;;
                                                                                 Sharpey,                                        i.
   trative Nihilism,"                                                                                                               from            Secre
   mise, letters on,                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                                  i.
                                              357 compro                                   tary Royal Society till 1871,                              60,
                                              346 Diggleite                                                                                           the
                                         ii, i.                                        62 Vivisection Bill,                         438
                                                    ;;                           "Shehretz," ii. 115, 296

   attack on the compromise, 406.                                                Sidgwick, Wm. C. rebuke to
Schurman, Professor, on design in evo
   lution,                                                                                           J.
''                               200.                                                      Speaker,          289.
                 ; i.                                                                                    ii.
                         ii.                                                                                        ,,

                            ii. ;                                                                                               i.
Science and Agriculture,                      ii. ii.  300.                      Sin, origin of, ii. 299 (cp.                       297).
Science and Art Department, lectures                                             Sinclair, Sir G. T. letter to, on Bab
                                                                                           bage's calculating machine, ii. 262
   for, 119 value of examinations,
   Edu274 examinations,                                                          Sion College, declines to attend opening
                                                       59
   Science and Art in Relation to                                                          of new buildings at,
                                                                                                                   i.               157.
   cation,"                                                                      Sion House meeting,                     i. ii.302 «., 313
                                 43.
Science and creeds, ii. 172                                  and its             Skelton, Sir John, visits,                     459, 478
                                                       ;                            Letters to -- Noctes                       mtrosianac,

"      prophets,     396.                                                                                              A                              i.
   Science and       Culture,"
                                         ii.           13                                  492 advantage of quasi -Scotch
                                                                                             ;

"Science and Religion, Truthfulness in,"                                                   nationality  :      the Hermitage too

   ii. 212                                                                                 pleasant for work, 513 biography
                                                                                           and fiction conscience and letter
"Science at Sea," 46 sq.                                                                                                 ;
              ii.                                                                                    ii.                      ;
                       ; i.                                                                             7; :
                                                                                                                dinner and discus
                                                  ;;                                                    The Crookit Meg, refer
                                                                ;
Science, in public schools, 277 in ele                                              8writing,
   mentary schools, 341, 337, 347
                                                                                    sion,            ;                                     a

   the great tragedy of, 356 defini                                                 ence to Huxley, 16 introduction

   tion of,                      14 at Oxford, 118, 119                             to Tyndall, 38 Mary Stuart and
                                                                                                               ;

                                                                    INDEX                                                      501

the Casket Letters, 50 ; Gladstone                                         "omnivorous reader," 154 (cp.                           : ; ; ii,
as controversialist, 130 ; nature and
                                                                            419)    to -- his
suffering, 134 ; historians and prac                                     Letters                   review   of the Arche
tical discipline : an antagonist
                                                                           tvpe, 161 First Principles, 212,
                                                                               ;          ;
                                                                                  i.                      ;
                                                                                                              ;
"rouses his corruption," 184; re                                           213 distention of birds' air-cells
tirement from London, 303 ; the
Casket Letters, 223 ; limitations of                                       during flight, 230 animals and
                                                                                          Tyndall's favourite
the Romanes Lecture, 381 ; mend                                            plants ::   "  gynopathy," 230;                 pro
                                                                           blem                                           fond

ing the irremediable. 360                                                  ness for music, 250 philosophy,
Skull, theory of the Vertebrate, i. 152 ;                                  262 patience in discussions, 299
                                                                               ;

further investigations, 154, 227                                           dry facts only at Edinburgh lec
                                                                           tures Moses and a visit to town,
Slavery, i. 252                                                                ;:
Smalley. G. W. , Huxley in New York                                        479 on George Eliot and West
harbour, i. 494 ; description of him
                                                                           minster Abbey,                  19 thanks for
                                                                                                      ii.
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                ;
as a lecturer, ii. 440 ; his friends                                       his photograph, 50 acceptance of
and talk, 446.                                                             P. R.S. 53; on Creation contro
Smith, Robertson, at x Club, i. 279.                                           ;
                                                                                    ,
Smith, Sir William, i. 267 ; and Inter                                     versy, 123; influence of conditions,

national College, 291 ; effect of the                                      135 reads proofs of his Autobio;
                                                                           graphy, 142 use-inheritance, ib.
        name "vivisection,"            H45.,9. Bible-read                  disinclined to reply to Mr. Lilly,
Smith, Right Hon. W.
                                                                           154 the plot succeeds, 155 his
        ing in schools, t. 342                                             own  :;boyhood, ib.             worredply"     ;to Mr.
Smyth, W. Warington, i. 151; death                                         Lilly                      ;                      ;Law"
                                                                                    abuse of the              ;
                                                                                                                                ;
of, ii. 276.                                                               Victorian science, 156 Imperial

Snakes, lecture on, ii. 1.                                                 Institute, 160          ;  death               of his

Socialism, State, and natural selection,                                   daughter, 191; retrospect of their

ii. 284.                                                                   first meeting   :          clears up possible
                                                                                             :
Societies and ladies, i. 212                                               misunderstanding about London

Society and societies, i. 348.                                             Liberty League, 195                ;           visit to,
Society for the propagation of common                                                                             a

                                                                           postponed defensive position in
                                                                                          :

        honesty, i. 199                                             ii.          controversy, 184; forgetfulness of
Society. of Arts, speech at, i. 509.                                             past events a sweeping criticism,
Speaker, the, insinuations of, rebuked,                                          197; jests on his recent activity:
                                                                                 himself unlike Samson, 207 some
272                                                                              consolation for old age, 198 (bis)
SSppeecctaietosr,andonst"eriPliotyp,e                                           return from Maloja, 218.
                                          257.                           Sphinx Club, Liverpool, dinner to Hux-
                                       Huxley,"
                                       i.                     350.                                                                 if ;
                                                          i.

Spedding, James, influence of Huxley's

accuracy in style,                     320 letter                                 ley. 335i·
from -- on Bacon, 522                  Bacon's in                        Spinoza, memorial to,;
                                       i.                                                             i.    480 debt to,
                                         ;                                                                i.       i. ;

                                                    ;

fluence compared with Huxley's, 523.                                       ii. 360, 426
Spencer, Herbert, and evolution, 180
                                       ;                                 Spiritualism, experiments in,                    451
                                              i.

                                                   ;
                                                          ;
joins x Club, 257, 260 criticises                                          true, an additional argument against
"Administrative Nihilism," 369 on                                          suicide, 452 report on seance, ib.
                                                                                             ;
Comte, 323 "devil's advocate"                                                     sq.          i.
lo- 333i u- 68 his comparison of                                         Spirula, work on,
              i. ;                                                                                 399, 490,        ii.   1, 344,
                   ;

                         ;
the body politic to the body physi                                                360 sq.
cal criticised, 385 controversy not                                      Spitsbergen, fossils from, 306.
inconsistent with friendship, 415 a                                      Spontaneous generation and Darwinism,
regular New Year's guest, 388, 484
                                                              ;          Spottisw2o4o4,de3, 31Wsiqll.iamre, ciapnedfoxr,i.357.
                                                                  ;                    ;                                  Club,
                                                                                          ; ii. i.
his philosophy found wanting by a                                                                                                  ; i.
                                                                                                 ;;
youthful Punjaubee, ii. 46 vigour                                                256. 259 visit to, ii. 35 character
of, 197 philosophical opposition to,                                            of, 54 death, 55.
     ;                                                                   Stanley, Dean, 314; handwriting. 453;   ;
         ;

                                            ;
                                                  ;
187, 188 correspondence on ab
solute ethics, 242,
psychology based                          243,   2-4i9nheriht is-          death of, 33 on George Eliot's
                                       on use                              funeral, ib. men of science, ib.

ance, 268       frankness to, 431                                          on being made a bishop, 421 his
              ;                                                            torical impressionability, 455 re              ;;
                                 ;                                         partee, the priests and the prophets,

                                                           ;
plays fives with, 444 fondness for
Letmteurssicf,ro4m46--. will not break through
                                                                                  456.
custom of sending him proofs,                                            Stanley, Lord,
;;                                                                       Stanley, Lord,   ii. i. 166.
                                                  ii.                                           of Alderley,
135 urges him to answer Lilly,                                                                                            memorial
154 sends proofs to him as an
                                                                           to Carlyle,            34

                               LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Stanley, Owen, captain of Rattlesnake, i.                                       Guilds Institute, ib.                             supply of
        24. a5. a7. 3°. 47. 59                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                    ;
Stanley, Mrs. Owen, i. 58.                                                      teachers, 509; speech at the Society
State, comparison with the body, i. 386.                                        of Arts, ib. buildings, ib. letter
State, the, and the medical profession,                                         on his aims, 510; relation of industry;; ;
                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                to science, ii. 160 Imperial Insti
                                                                                                                    letters to Times,
i. ii.         65                                                               tute, ib. sq.
Steffens, Father, friendship with,
                                                         2       205,           162 sqq. campaign interrupted by
                                                            ii.                                i.
         218.                                                                   pleurisy. 155 at Manchester in the;
Stephen, Leslie, in Metaphysical Society,                                       autumn, 190-93.

        315 on Huxley and his home                                         Technical education in agriculture,                           i.      300.
   life, ii. 433                                                                                                                            ii.
letter to -- separation from friends:
             ;                                                             Teeth, writes on, 151.
                :                                                          Tegumentary organs, article on, 151.i.
                    ,                                                                                         i. ;
                        i.
deafness morality in the cosmos,                                           Teleology,                 489 sq. see also s.v. Design.

ii. 381                                                                    "Tenax propositi,"                       75, 131

Siephenson, G.                 230                                         Tenby, survey work at,                                 122; fossil
                                                                                                                         i.
Stewart, Professor Balfour,                              editor        of       forest at, 140.                                 i.
                                                                                                                                        i.
Science Primers, 360, ii.                                                  Tennessee,               o"nOdthee   geology of, 499.
                               i.                                          Tennyson,                           on Wellington,"                   11;
Stocks, John Ellerton.            i. i.        18, 63
Stokes, Sir G. G.                        167; presentation                      in Metaphysical Society, 314, 315
                            ,                                                                                                                     ; ;;

    to,  at  frLoivmerp--oolP, arl3ia60m. ent                                   death of, ii. 358 visits to, ib.    ;
Letter                                                                          scientific insight of, it. 338 his
                                                         and the                                                              ,
                                                                                                                                  ;
Presidency of the Royal Society,
                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                talk, 359; insensibility to music, ib.
                                                                                on Browning's music, ib. funeral,
». 175                                                                                                thoann,ksit.,for339"Demeter":
Letters to,                 175, 176 (cp. 173, 174)
                ,                                                              ib.          ;  poem
                    i. ii.                                                 Letter
Strachey,    E.   R.,27a9p. preciation                                                         to --
Strachey,    Sir
                                                   of,                             envies his vigour, ii. 257.
                                          ;                      414.      Tenterden, Lady, at Lynton, ii. 45.
Strauss, on the Resurrection,                 i.                           Tethea, on the anatomy of, 81.
                                                         224               Theism, philosophical difficultiesof, ii. 153.
Struthers, Professor, visits, 439.                ii. ii,                  Theological doctrines, truth underlying,
                                                            ; ii.                                                             i.
                                                                     ,
Style,     215, 276, 297, 498,                           308 in
        i.
           ;
                           ii.
                                 ii. i.
fluence of his, 320 cannot judge
of his own compositions in MS.
                                                                                  ii. 303
532 the first pages of an essay the                                        Theology, sentimental, ii. 322.
chief trouble,                                                             Thompson, Archbishop, on                                      modern
                                         157.
Suarez, his teaching examined, 392.                                             thought and positivism, 321 and
Suicide, moral,                                          i.                                                                   i.
                                                                ;                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                              ill
                               46                                  i.              Metaphysical Society, 314
Sulivan, Captain, at Falkland Islands, 53                                  Thompson, Sir Henry, on Clifford's

Sunday evening gatherings, 445 sq. im                                           ness,          i. i.501

pression on friends, 422 sq.                                               Thomson, John, surgeon on the Rattle

Sunday Society, unable to support pro                                             snake, 30, 32
minently while P. R.S. ii. 61.                                             Thomson, Joseph, description of Hux
                                               ,

Supernaturalism,               ii.  317.                                                    ley's lectures at Edinburgh,                    442
                                  i,                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                                                        i.
Sydenham College, 17                                                       Thomson, Sir W. (Lord Kelvin), recon
Sydney, projected chair of Natural His                                          ciliation with Tyndall, 313.

        tory at, 76, 93                                                    Thomson, Sir Wyville, and Bathybius,
Sylvester, Professor, 15:.
                  i.                                                            s ii. ii. i.  318 his course at Edinburgh
                                 i.                                                            ;
                                                                                                    ii.
                                                                                            taken by Huxley, 442, 456 criti
Tait, Professor, reconciliation with Tyn                                                    cism of Darwin,    ii.
                                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                         15.
dall,             313 makes Huxley play                                    Thorpe, Professor, and new University
             i.
                         ;                                                         scheme,
                                     i.                                    Thought, as a
        golf, 390.                                                                                     "3f3u1n. ction    "    of  the       brain,
Taylor, Miss H., criticism of "Adminis
                                                                                              299.
       trative Nihilism," 396.
Taylor, Canon Isaac, language and race,                                    Times, review of the Origin in,                    i.            189.
                                                                           Title, rumoured acceptance of,                          ii. i.   74.
       ii. 287.                                                            Titles, for men of science,
Taylor, Robert, Christianity compared                                                                                                    386 (cp.

to Babism, ii. 242.                                                                            175)-
Letter to-- success of Christianity                                        Todd,              Dr. R.
                                                                 and                                  B. ,     gives up professorship

the story of Christ,                     i.        243.                                     at King's College, 107
                                              ii.                                                                   i.
Teachers, lectures to, 406 sq. 510.                                        Toda" Cyclopaedia, writes for.                    i.          140
Technical Education, address on, 507;
                                                   ,                       Tollemache, A., at x Club,                            i.279.
                                                         i.                                                                                        i.

        continuation of his work on the                                    Tomes, Sir John, ii. 149.
                                                                           Toronto, stands for professorship at,
        School Board, ib. Report to the
                                         ;

Guilds, 508 engineers the City and                                                          78-80, 100, 107
                            ;

                                                                        INDEX                                                              503

Training colleges,       sectarian,                                            to Egypt ascent of Vesuvius, 398
Trevelyan, Sir
                        C Under
            i.                            166.                                 the new teaching of biology: Hooker's;:                       ;;
                   i.                  - Secretary                             affair, 408 ill-health, and the fine
                           ,

                                            i. ii.
                                                                  ;
       Treasury, 79.                                                           air of St. John's Wood Tyndall's
Treviranus, not studied by Huxley before                                                                            ;;
                                                                                                                         : : a:
1859,          180.                                                            visit to America, 411                                 ; :;loan, 415

Trigonia, on the animal of, 75                                                 possibility of marriage, ib.                                the

Truth, transatlantic discovery of, ii. 47                                      New     Y"eaErngilnishtheacnceewnt"housceharaTcytner-
Huxley a fanatic for, 49 (cp. 281),                                            dall's
                                                                               of Hirst Lord Rector of Aberdeen,
404                                                                            ib. tour in Auvergne, 420 con;
Tug, story of, ii. 433.                                                                     ::
Tulloch, Principal,                                                            troversy about Forbes walks with
          ,                      400.
                 i.

                          i.
Turner, W. an appointment              to Calcutta                             his young son receives Order of
                                                                                                   :

        Museum,         325.     to -- duties of a                             the Pole Star, 427 opposition to
Tyndall, Mrs.,          letters                                                his Presidency of the British Asso

married daughter, ii.            ;;       forgetful-                           ciation a        let"teMr oadtehrnigh  temperature:
                                    ; ;7                                       Blauvelt's                             Skepticism,"
       ness, 37 an invitation to lunch, 69.
Tyndall, John, rejected, like Huxley,
               ;                                                               433; the Forbes controversy: British
                           i.
at Toronto,                      85 Physics for                                Association at Belfast, 441 excuses
                                                                               for undertaking unnecessary work
                                                                               subject of Belfast address, 442
Saturday Review, 151 joint paper                                                                                    ::                       ; ;:
on Glacier Ice, 155 joins School                                                                                        ''
of Mines, 168 on Committee of
                                                                                                                                  ;
               ;                                                               Spinoza memorial pay at Edin
                  ;

                         ;
                             ;
the Reader, 211 in Wales with,                                                 burgh possible sons-in-law, 447
                                                                               examines micro-organisms, 482;
216, 224                takes Waverley Place                                           ;;
                                                                                           :
house, 242 favourite problem in                                                offers to lecture for                  bottled life,"
molecular physics, 249 and x Club,
                                       i. ;                                    519 on his daughter's recovery,
                                                   ;                           529 to take Boyle in English Men
257, 260, 119; receives Edinburghii.

LL. D. with Huxley,                    296 joins                               of      Science Series. 500;           oiwllnnescsa,paibcit.y;
                                                                                       an editor Clifford's
in drawing up scheme of science                                                as               :

teaching in schools, 308, 309 in                                               begs him to avoid                    avalanches of
                                          ;                                    work," 502                           ''
Metaphysical Society, 338 presen               ;                                                                            ;;;,
                                                   ;;
                                                          ;a
tation to, at Liverpool, 360 dis                                                       Kriendshipaud criticism apropos of
cussion with B. Sanderson, 516
                                                                               science review in Nineteenth Century,
constant New Year's guest, 518                                                 ii. 18 a confession, 66 dinner in
                                                                               honourof, 166, 167; Lord Granville's
action of Association of Liberal                                                       ;
Thinkers, i.                                                                                 :
                         3       vigour of, 174                         ;      sarcastic sweetness, 178 confused
                           ;

   visit  tfor,om30--5     death of, 368,                         369          with him in the popular mind, 274
Letters        ; ; i.   unable to join in                         trip  to     Tennyson's funeral, 338 effect of                             :;
                     ;;                                                        influenza addresses at Oxford
the Eifel, 353 on clerical attacks,
                         ;

361 on proposed visit to India,                                                dying by inches, 378.
;

355 n.                 on opposition to his                                  "Universities, Actual and Ideal, "i. 405
                                                                             University, Johns Hopkins, address at
Presidency of the British Associa
                                                                                    "Trustees have sometimes made
LetFtti.oeRnrs.,S.4t,3o2--ibT. owraosontentdo,asyLmonp8da5othny,   440.                                                                      ; a:
                                                                  elected

                                                                  career,
                                 ; ; ; i.                                      palace and called                      university,"
                                           ;;                                                                       it
                                                                                                                        a
                                                 :                                                                          ii.
123; science reviews in Westmin                             :                  i.      465, 466 ideal of,                            327-30
                                                                                                ;

ster, 120, 121 letter from col                                                 government by professors only,
                         ;;
leagues in England, 137 at his                                                        331 n.
                                                                             Use-inheritance, disbelief in,
marriage, 140 the Brenon end                                                                                          ii.            285; in
                                                                                 plants, ib.
of Swiss trip, 158 on joining
Sibch.o;ol     of Mines, 168 friendship,
            a   "madcap" Alpinist, 172;                                      Variation, the key to the Darwinian

on Jamaica affair, 304 on working-                                                  theory, 245.
men's lecture at British Association                                         Varigny, H. de, letters
                                                                                       i.                           to-- his essays
                                                                                                   ii.
                                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                                   :
reconciliation with Thomson and                                                translated into French love of his
Tait, 292 resignation of Fullerian
lectureship, 314 resigning lecture                                             native tongue, 308 later volume
               ;                                                               not interesting to French public
                          ;                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                                                            :
ship at School of Mines, 327; Liver                                            experimental proof of specific infer

pool British Association, 336; an                                                   tility, 309.
electrical disturbance, 354                                             his  Vermes, zoological lumber-room,
            :                                                                          of a                                                59,
                                           ;
                                                                                                             i. i.
                                                      ;;
lecture at Liverpool meeting of                                                131     Creation,

British Association, 360 a letter to                                         Vestiges                                167, 168
Nature his breakdown, 393 trip                                               Vesuvius, ascent of,                   372

504 LIFE OF PROFESSOR HUXLEY

Virchow, Professor (in Huxley lecture),                                  Waugh, Rev. Benjamin, impression of
       influence of the Rattlesnake voyage,                              Huxley on the School Board, 377
                                                                                                                            i. ;
i. 60; on Huxley's ethnological work,                                             sq.                                            i. i.

213; at Medical Congress,                            ;         35.       Welby, Lady, letters to -- life compared
                                                          ii.
Vivisection,             427 sqq. Lord Shaftes                           to a whirlpool human tendency to
               i.                                                                        ;:
bury's charges, 460 sq. W. E.i. i.                                                              ii. :
                           :;                                                                            ;
                                       ;\                                make idols "devil's advocate" to
                                                                         H. Spencer, 67 speculation and
Forster and South Kensington lec                                         fact, 173 truthfulness in science
                                                                         and religion, 212
tures, 462 sq. personal feelings on,                 ;                   Welcker, Dr. H. on his ethnological
434. 439. 44° Bills, 469 sq., 473                             ;;                     i.
fox-hunting legislators, 470 ex                                                                  ,
periment and original research, 471                                             work, 273             letters to-- ideal
Commission on, 472 Harvey article,                                       Weldon. Professor,                                             of a

Vogt,48K4.ar4l,88 176.                                                   modern university, ii. 308 organ
Von Willemoes Suhm and Ceylon Mu                                         isation of new university, 315
                                                                         Wellington, Duke of. funeral,
                                                                                                                                      102  i. i. i. ;

seum,              404.                                                         on speaking, 297
                                                                         Westlake, John, Q.C. a working-men's
Wace, Dr. .attacks agnosticism, ii. 221 sq.                                       i.

Wales, H.R.H. Prince of, admitted to                                                             of ,
                                                                                meeting, ii. 410                                        85,
                                                                         Westminster Review, writes for,

Royal Society,           42 unveils Dar
                         1                                               119, 214
                                 ii.                                     Whales,
                                           ;
win statue, 21.                                                                      276
Walker, Alfred, letter to -- local museums,                              Whewell, History
                                                                                                      Scientific Ideas,

i.           147.                                                                 154
Walking, his holiday recreation,                                         Wilberforce, Bishop, on Darwinism,
                                                     i. i.     144,
                                                        ii.
224, 225                                                                 179-81, 183, 185, 186, 188, 189.
Wallace, A. R. starts Darwin,                                                     196, 201, 221
                   ;                                           159,      Winmarleigli Lord, on Vivisection Com
                      ,
    165,     170     Civil List            pension,                 15.  i.
Letter       from  -- friendship                                                       ,

                                                                                          i.
                                              with Huxley,                      mission, 439
                                                                         Withers, Rachel, mother of T. H. Huxley,
       ii. 432.          letters to -- numbersat
Waller, Mrs. F. W.                                                                  1. (See Huxley)
               i.                                                        Witness, the, on the Ape question,
                         ;,

                                     :
Edinburgh lectures suggests new
                                                     ;
                                                          a
friend, 478 Afghan War of 1878                                      ;:          193 sqi 196                                 i.   169
Indian Empire a curse, 524 avoid                                         Wollaston, T. V. and species,                         i.   387,
                                                                         Women, medical education of,
ance of congresses, 530 acceptance                                                                ,
                   ,                                                                                      i.
                         ii.
                               :                                                                                  ii.
of P. R.S.                              ii. ; ;58; portrait at the       389 in public life,                           387
                                                                         Women's education,;
Royal Academy family news, 68                                            Woodward, S. P., andi.        211, 262, 417
loss of her child, 136 a Christmas                                                                      geological ama
       function, 457.
Walpole, Sir Spencer,                                                    teur,           275

                                                     20 sq. 29;          Working-Men's College, 138 (Lectures.
                                                     ,                                            ;
                                                                                                        ii.
on Huxley as Fishery Inspector, 22-                                      See      "  Lectures)               ;1 i.     " address        at,
                                                                         on           Method                               13
       27 kindness from, in Italy, 99, 101                                                        of  Zadig,
Walpole, Sir Spencer H. Vivisection
             ;                                                           WWroigrkhtin, g-DMr.e,n'esdiItnosrtitoufteN, atu4r7a3l Historyi.
                 , i.
        Bill,
Ward, Dr.                                         ,
                   469.                                                  Review,         i.   209, 252
                   his former examiner, passed

over in favour of Huxley for Royal                                       xClub, founded, 256; history, 259-61
                                                                                compared toThe Club, 259 jealousy
Society, 104.                                                                    of, ii. 112 gaps in, 119i.
                   , i.                                                                                                                    ;

Ward, T. H. visit to,    ii.               256.                                                                        ;
                            ii.                                                                                           ;

                                   of
Ward, Mrs. T. H., letter to-- thanks for                                                 i. i. ;
       Robert Elsmere,
Ward, W. table-talk         206.                     especi              Yale, fossils in museum,               i.     461 sq., 469
             ;           of Huxley,                                      Youmans, Dr., at x Club.                  i.     258 meet
                ,
ally on the Foundations Belief,                                     ii.

       418 other reminiscences of his talk,                              ing with, 284
       428, 430                                                          Young, Lord, dines with,
Ward, W. G. in Metaphysical Society,                                                                            ii.    29

i.                                                                       Yule, Commander, succeeds Owen
                ,

                              i.
                                 i.

                                        ;;
             314, 317, 320, 321 saying about                             Stanley, 55
Mill's opinions, 347.
Warwick, lectures at,                                                    " Zadig, Method of,"
                         154                                                                          i. i.     13
                                                                                                           ii.
Water-Babies, The,       206 letter to his                               Zoological Gardens, 473

grandson about, ii. 461.                                                 Zoological Society, 98

                         Printed fry R. R. Clark, Limited, Edinburgh
