Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass : F.R.S., &c., &c. (formerly Engineer-in-Chief
to the Trinity House.) / by Thomas Williams ; with portrait.

Williams, Thomas, of Trinity House.
London ; Longmans, Green, 1900.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044024423675

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
LoSififerWTDNJahoiicumlolhigmaoleamlaasssss


                HARVARD

               COLLEGE

             LI BRARY
I
m
JLl4UuA$^^
L\M$V,C\\i)l\< UK.
                                                                                     [,»·:

,V;t i ,1" ,'.,

'  '  7 : .t r

   s                  a       .*"

 '- -                    
                  <v
.
  t
       
            :%

              i·

                         ·
                                     ;
                                         
                                            ·
                                                 , -\"

                                                      ;
                                                          
                                                             >

                                                                           "
dteUULAfifc)^^^
                    LIFE OF

IR JAMES NICHOLAS, DOUGLASS

                           F.R.S.. &c. &c.

              (Formerly Engineer-in- Chief to the Trinity House.)

                                                            BY

                    THOMAS WILLIAMS

                                 WITH PORTRAIT

        LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO.

                   39, PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON
                        NEW YORK AND BOMBAY

                                                   1900
W*v S+.\

          i^

          I UIWNIVVEARRSDIT^Y

              LIBRARY

                    MAY 28 1965 ,
1 The latest gospel in this world know thy work and do it.
 Know what thou canst work at, and work at like a Hercules."

                                                                                   Carlyle.
          is,
                             it

" So nigh grandeur to our dust,
is is
So near God to man,

When Duty whispers low, Thou must,'
       I'

                    "'
The youth replies, can.'
                                 Emerson.

" What makes a hero -- an heroic mind,?

  Express'd in action, in endurance proved."

                                     Sir Henry Taylor.

"No trustier service claimed the wreath

For Sparta's bravest son;

No truer soldier sleeps beneath

The mound of Marathon."          O. W. Holmes.
    LADY DOUGLASS,

                THE FOLLOWING BIOGRAPHY
          OF HER DISTINGUISHED HUSBAND,

                                     BY ONE

      WHO, FOR MORE THAN THIRTY YEARS,
HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF SERVING UNDER HIM,

                                          IS,
     WITH THE AUTHOR'S SINCERE REGARDS,

                 RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED.
CONTENTS.

                                   CHAPTER I.                          PAGE

Birth ; early years ; father's misfortune in business and entry           I
     into the Trinity House service ; education ; practical
      advantages of a roving life ; mother's character ;
      apprenticeship ; the Scilly Islands ; assists his father in
      building the Bishop rock lighthouse ; structure swept
      away ; second lighthouse commenced ; father's qualities ;
     Mr. James Walker and his assistants

                                   CHAPTER II.                         13
An early adventure; " Cap'n Jim" at the Bishop; life on                21

       Rosevear ; story of Sir Cloudesley Shovel ; Cornish super
      stition ; James' intrepidity ; an instance of chivalry ;
       versatility as a craftsman

                               CHAPTER III.

The granite blocks ; leaves the Bishop to improve his position ;
      love of independence ; manager of railway carriage
      works ; succeeded at the Bishop by his brother ; completion
      of the lighthouse ; the life of a light keeper ; marriage ;
      re-enters the Trinity House service ; faithful performance
      of duties ; the Gunfleet lighthouse and Runnelstone
       beacon ; self-defence

                                  CHAPTER IV.                          32
                                                                       41
Resident engineer at the new Smalls lighthouse ; the old
      building ; private ownership in lighthouses ; a tragic incident
      at the first "Smalls"; the new tower; resident engineer's
       indomitable zeal and energy ; an historical gale ; fatal
        accidents

                                   CHAPTER V.

Process pursued in building the new Smalls lighthouse ;
      exhausting and dangerous nature of the operations ; "the
       post of honour"; reminiscences by a former light keeper;

 ...the resident engineer's great capacity for work
viii ·     Contents.

           CHAPTER VI.                                                    PAGE
                                                                              50
Description of the new Smalls lighthouse ; ancient beacons ;

coast illumination ; Messrs. Chance Brothers & Co. ; Dr.

John Hopkinson, F.R.S. ; popularity of Mr. Douglass ;
interest in the welfare of his workpeople ; a dream and its

fulfilment ; the art of catching crabs ; elected a member of

the Institution of Civil Engineers ; appreciation by the

Trinity House, and appointed resident engineer for the
Wolf rock lighthouse ; colour of lighthouses ; departure

from Solva ; description of that village and its inhabitants ;
the beacon on the Wolf; commencement of the lighthouse

thereat ;  death of Mr. Walker ; succeeds  him as chief
engineer   to the Trinity House ; chance   " favours the

prudent"

                              CHAPTER VII.                                67

The Trinity House ; eminent men connected therewith ; its
      charters ; referred to in Pepys' diary ; duties and jurisdiction ;
      light dues ; an ancient City guild ; the Elder Brethren ;
      works of art in the building

                              CHAPTER VIII.                               74

Mr. Douglass organizes his department ; designs and constructs
     new lighthouses and other works ; the Trinity House
     engineering workshops at Blackwall ; Mr. G. H. Slight ; the
     Wolf lighthouse a difficult enterprise ; Professor Tyndall's

 ...investigations on the subject of the loss of light by passing

     through red glass ; Mr. Michael Beazeley succeeds Mr. W.
      Douglass at the Wolf; an exciting Christmas Day; the

       lighthouse finished ; presentation to the engineer

                                  CHAPTER IX.                             81

The Great Basses reef ; first attempts to erect a lighthouse
      thereon ; the proposal temporarily abandoned ; the Trinity
      House consulted ; Mr. Douglass' design ; a masterly
      scheme ; Mr. W. Douglass appointed executive engineer ;
      special appliances ; operations ; exhibition of the light ;
      very moderate cost of the work; the Little Basses

      lighthouse ; its erection and lighting ; pre-eminent fitness
      of the brothers Douglass for such enterprises ; Mr. W.

        Douglass appointed engineer-in-chief to the Commissioners
       of Irish Lights ; old and new Longships lighthouses ; other

        works
Contents.                                                             ix

                            chapter x.                                FACE
                                                                          90
Smeaton's Eddystone lighthouse doomed ; Winstanley's light
        house ; an ingenious practical joker ; the unsuitability of
       his building for such a position ; its total destruction ; a
        remarkable coincidence ; Rudyerd's lighthouse ; admir
       ably conceived ; destroyed by fire ; an extraordinary
         Incident ; Smeaton's lighthouse ; ineffectual attempts to
        ensure its stability ; a proposal to blow away the Eddystone
        reef; description of the rocks; site of the Douglass

         lighthouse

                                   CHAPTER XI.                        100

Arrangements for building the Douglass Eddystone lighthouse ;
       old and new methods ; the work commenced ; preliminary
       operations; first and last stones laid by the Duke of
        Edinburgh ; lessons from Nature ; criticisms on the Douglass
       (fesign ; description of the new tower, in comparison with

         Smeaton's lighthouse

                               CHAPTER XII. '                         m

Masonr; of the new Eddystone tower ; different methods of
      dovetailing ; Mr. Nicholas Douglass' invention ; Mr. W. T.

        Douglass and the new lighthouse ; a providential escape ;
       Smeaton's tower transferred to Plymouth Hoe ; the

       difficiuy of writing history ; opening of the new lighthouse

       by the Duke of Edinburgh ; the Duchess' great knowledge
       of lighihouse matters ; the new tower completed much
      below the estimate ; Mr. Douglass receives the honour
       of knighihood ; a well-merited reward

CHAPTER XIII.

Proposal to erect a lighthouse on Minicoy island ; survey made

      by Mr. T. Matthews, and work carried out by Mr. T.

Edmond ; description of the island and its inhabitants ;

Sir James present at the opening ceremony ; entertained
by the Amin : inspection of the Basses lighthouses
                                                    ..                lao

CHAPTER XIV.                                                          130

Violent seas at the Bishop rock ; the lighthouse strengthened ;

practical re-building of the tower ; dangerous nature of the
operations ; power of the new light ; Mr. W. T. Douglass ;

Sir James frequently consulted by foreign Governments,
4c. ; his various inventions ; lighthouse lanterns ; the

Douglass burners ; fluted carbons for the electric light .  .
x Contents.

                                 CHAPTER XV.                         rxcz

Miscellaneous duties of the Trinity House engineer ; Sir James'        143
      experimental work ; types of fog signals ; important
      investigations at the South Foreland ; description of the

     "Siren"; Mr. Slight's improvements therein; importance

      of individualising fog signals

CHAPTER XVI.

Experiments with lighthouse illuminants ; the electric light ;       155
      the Wigham gas system ; the Douglass oil burners ;
      result of the investigations ; Professor Tyndall's attitude ;

      experiments for determining the actual powers of lights ;
      phases of Sir James' personality

CHAPTER XVII.

Member of various Scientific Institutions ; visit to Canada with     169
      the British Association ; the Canadian Pacific Railwar ;
      impressions of the country ; visit to the United States ;
      governor of Dulwich College and University College,
      London

CHAPTER XVIII.

Retirement from official position, through illness ; patience in     181

       affliction ; home life ; closing years ; death ; qualities
      and character ; a good and faithful public servant ; the

      "bondman" of Duty: some of his critics answered; his
      abundant labours and inspiring example . . .
              NOTE.

          Captain George Rawlinson Vyvyan, Deputy Master

TO of the Trinity House, for permission to consult all

necessary official documents ; to Mr. Charles A. Kent,
Secretary, Mr. T. Matthews, Engineer-in-Chief, and Mr. E.
Price Edwards, one of the Principals, of that Department,

for valuable suggestions and assistance during the passing
of this work through the press ; to the Editors of the

" Daily News," the " Engineer," " Cassell's Magazine," and
the " Boys' Own Paper," for the privilege of utilizing, in the
following pages, portions of articles which I had previously

contributed, on lighthouse matters, to those journals ; and to
the Council of the Institution of Civil Engineers, for leave
to re-produce, from the Minutes of Proceedings of that
body, the accompanying engraving of the new Eddystone

lighthouse, my grateful acknowledgments are due.

                                                                      T. W.
                     CHAPTER I.

James N1cholas Douglass was born on
the 1 6th of October 1826 at Bow, Middlesex,
where his father, Mr. Nicholas Douglass,

who came from a well-known and highly-
respected Northumbrian family, was then
in the service of the still existing firm of
Messrs. Hunter & English, engineers &c,
of that place. When quite young he was
sent to Blaydon-on-Tyne, his parents'
native town, to be educated. Here he

remained for about five years, during which
time he resided with an aunt ; and is still

remembered as a frank, intelligent lad, a
favourite with his playmates, his relatives,

and his master. James had, however, re
turned home before the date of the occurrence

which will now be described. When the boy
was about twelve years of age his father

embarked in an engineering and shipbuilding
venture on the Thames, putting all his little
capital into the business. The first steamers
that ran on that river were constructed by
the firm with which he was thus connected ;

but lo ! on one eventful day, his partner
absconded, leaving Mr. Nicholas Douglass to

                                                                                                              B
 2 Life of

 meet all the liabilities of the concern. The
 poor man, brave as a lion to face any ordinary

 danger, but not debt and dishonour, was over

whelmed. The fortunes of the little house

hold had, indeed, never been darker. There

was absolutely no money left, not even to pay
for the two lads' schooling ; but James' master,
noting the boy's promise, and especially his
love for mathematics, generously insisted
on teaching his pupil gratuitously ; and

other help was, fortunately, not withheld in
this the hour of need. In particular, the
crisis made a man of the elder son James.

His mother afterwards said that no one

could have been more helpful, or have
cared for her with greater tenderness, than
he in this bitter trial.

    In 1839 Mr. Nicholas Douglass entered
the service of the Honourable Corporation
of Trinity House as a constructive engineer,
-- rising eventually to be their superintending
engineer, --and James, together with his only
brother William, who is now, and has been

for many years, engineer-in-chief to the
Commissioners of Irish Lights, eventually
accompanied their parents to several of the
places where the exigencies of the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  3

father's rather exacting calling compelled

him to live, -- residing at Cardiff during the

erection of the Monkstone rock beacon ;

at Flatholm during the construction of a

landing place on that island ; at Newton,
near Bridgend, during the building of the
Tuskar rock beacon ; at Tenby during the
erection of a similar structure on the Wool-

house rock ; at the Land's End during the
construction of the Runnelstone rock beacon,
&c. This wandering mode of life was,
probably, a little unsettling to the boys'

education ; but the parents took care that

their sons attended school wherever possible ;

and, during the period of about a year that
they resided at Newton, the lads had the
advantage of being placed, as weekly

boarders, under the tuition of the Rev. J. E.

Jones, Unitarian minister, of Bridgend, a
man of brilliant mathematical attainments,

one of whose pupils at the time was Richard
Price-Williams, now the well-known engineer,
and for the last thirty years of James
Douglass' life his intimate and attached
friend. Another pupil of Mr. Jones was the late
Wyndham Harding (son of the rector of the
parish) who was afterwards even more
4 Life of

famous as a mathematician than his

teacher ; and, having been articled to Robert

Stephenson, ultimately became, also, an

engineer of great distinction.

   " As regards my recollection of Sir James

during his school-days at Bridgend," writes

Mr. Price- Williams, " I may state that what

impressed me most was his splendid temper,

his lovable nature, his earnest application to

his studies, and the marked ability he showed

even then. He was, as I am sure Mr. Jones

would have testified were he alive, one of his

best, if not the very best of his pupils." *' Sir

James has often admitted to me," adds
Mr. Price- Williams, "that the training he

got at Mr. Jones' school was of the greatest

service to him in his professional career."

   Besides, --moving about, as the two

brothers did, from place to place, and being

bright, observant youths, they acquired a good

deal of valuable miscellaneous knowledge

which books are often powerless to convey.

What says the poet ?

      " Deign on the passing world to turn thine eyes,
      And pause awhile from letters to be wise."

Moreover,     olifvteinngonaswitlhdeayndhdadesotloatedoc,oaastts,th--e

sea-side, --
           Sir James Nicholas Douglass.      5

and witnessing, or hearing of, the deeds of

daring performed by their brave father and

his sturdy workmen, they early learned to

swim, to row, to sail a boat, to despise

danger, to endure hardness, -- all such ex
cellent preparations for the life of strenuous

enterprise that lay before them.

   An admirable woman, too, was the mother,

--prudent and capable, a wise counsellor, a

loving guide. No ! the lads were not getting

such a faulty education, after all.

   On leaving school, James was apprenticed

as an engineer to his father's old firm,

Messrs. Hunter & English, in whose service

his conduct appears to have been in every

respect praiseworthy ; and, besides being a

diligent   learner  by day, he devoted his
evenings,
           --often  until late at night, --to

mechanical drawing, and technical studies
                                             the " prime
gweisndeormally",   thus seeking to  attain  before him
                                      which
                   of knowing that
lay " in daily life ". His apprenticeship

completed, he was employed for a while under
Messrs. Seaward & Capel, engineers, Isle of

Dogs.

This record now brings us to the year

1847, when Mr. Nicholas Douglass was
6 Life of

selected by his employers to erect a light
house on the Bishop rock, Scilly Isles ; and
James, then in his twenty-first year, was
appointed to accompany him thither as

assistant.

   The Scilly Isles are situated about
forty miles from Penzance (the usual
port by which the visitor reaches their
capital of St. Mary's) and about twenty-five
miles west by south of the Land's End.
The Cassiterides, or Tin Islands, which
long held commerce with the Phoenicians,
have an interesting history, with which,
however, this narrative has no concern,
except for the fact that they had long been
the scene of terrible shipwrecks. It was
on the Gilstone, one of the rocks of this

group, that, in 1707, several ships of the
British squadron under the command of
the gallant Sir Cloudesley Shovel, when
returning from an expedition against
Toulon, were wrecked, and two thousand
men, including the Admiral himself,
drowned; and here, also, as lately as 1875,
occurred the sad loss of the Hamburg mail
steamer " Schiller," when three hundred

and thirty-one persons perished. Since the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  7

latter catastrophe an additional lighthouse,
 showing a very powerful red flash, has
been established on Round Island, situated
at the northern end of the Scilly group ;

but, before the Bishop rock was illuminated,
the only local lighthouse was the one at
St Agnes, where, in 1680, was built a stone
structure, from the top of which an open coal
fire was shown until so recent a date as 1 790,

when it was replaced by the first revolving
reflector light established in Great Britain.
The Bishop rock, which is thought to

derive its name from its resemblance to

a bishop's mitre, lies at a distance of about

seven miles from St. Mary's, is covered at

high-water, ordinary spring tides, and affords

only just sufficient base to receive a stone
tower of adequate strength to withstand
the tremendous Atlantic billows which break

over it. It was not, however, a stone tower
at all, but an open structure of wrought
and cast iron that Mr. Nicholas Douglass
and his son had gone to erect,--a building
designed by Mr. James Walker, F.R.S.,

who, besides filling the post of engineer-

in-chief to the Trinity House, had an

extensive private practice, chiefly as a dock
    8 Life of

    and harbour engineer, having indeed, since

    the death of the illustrious Telford in 1834,

    stood at the very head of his profession,

    and been for nearly eleven years, ending

    1845, President of the Institution of Civil

    Engineers.

    The work of cutting and blasting the

    rock for receiving the cast iron pillars of

    the lighthouse was proceeded with as vigor
    ously as the exposed nature of the site, and

    the great difficulty of landing on admitted.
           it
               ;
                                                           it,

                                                                                                                                                     !
    During the second and third years the

    columns and their supports were got into

    position and, at the end of the working

    season of 1849, the building was nearly

    completed, being, indeed, ready to receive

    the lantern and optical apparatus. In this

    state  was left until the opening of the

    fine spring weather of the following year

    should permit of these latter being erected

    in place, and the light shown. But, alas

    during a terrific storm on the night of the

    5th of February 1850, the structure was
    entirely swept away. The sea was too

    rough to admit of the rock being approached

    until ten days afterwards, when Captain

    Hugh Tregarthen, the Trinity House local

hi
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                  9

agent, got as near to it as he safely could

(Mr. Nicholas Douglass was in London

at the time) and reported, next day, to his

Board that there was practically nothing
of the former building left. " Bad indeed !

but, as you say, might have been worse,"

wrote Mr. Walker informally, on the 9th

of that month, to Mr. Jacob Herbert, then
secretary of the Trinity House. It would,

certainly, have been worse had the casualty

occurred after the tower was completed and

inhabited by the keepers. " I have seen

t"hneotDeinputhtye  Master," continued   Mr.  Walker ;
                    best spirits as you
                                         may  suppose,

but calm and equal as usual. No reproach,

but rather the reverse, by referring to
my not having confidence &c." Well, if

the authorities of the Trinity House, as thus

represented by its Deputy Master (Captain

Sir J. H. Pelly, Bart., who had filled that

honourable and dignified position since

1834) had thus full confidence in the
engineer of the ill-fated structure, that

feeling was equally entertained by them

towards its builder. Accordingly, steps

were at once taken with a view to the

erection of a granite tower, in lieu of
10 Life of

the previous one of iron ; and, during

the ensuing summer, Mr. Nicholas

Douglass and his son James were hard
at work upon this new, and much

more difficult, undertaking. To no better

hands, indeed, than those of Mr.

Nicholas Douglass could a project of

this nature have been entrusted. A few
words now respecting him. A man of

immense stature and build, he stood a very

tower of strength ; his keen, glittering

eye, and firm, determined mouth being,

indeed, indicative of that courage, that

tenacity, that masterfulness, which were

his leading characteristics. Not highly

trained in the science of his profession, he,

in the practice of  arrived, as by an
                    it,
                               it

                                                 ;

                                              a
unerring instinct, at those correct results
which engineers of far greater theoretic

attainments often fail to reach. He

would have sorely tried, however,                   little-

minded chief under whom  might have

been his misfortune to serve for he was

"stiff in opinion," and accustomed to em

ploy, no matter whom he addressed, a

quaker-like bluntness and brevity of speech.
But Mr. Walker was quite above being
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  11

influenced by any such trifles. He knew,

and rightly appreciated, the sterling worth

of this excellent officer, and took every

suitable occasion of testifying to it. A

brave, capable leader, Mr. Nicholas Douglass

completely won the confidence of his men,

who followed him loyally.

   It was remarked, in one of the biographical

notices which appeared   of Mr. Walker soon
after his decease, that
                         " he was fortunate

in attracting to him a number of men

who have since risen to eminence in the

profession." This statement does not do

him justice. Surely they too were fortunate

in serving under one who, as was once
well said of him, had " as much skill in

the engineering of men as of matter," and

always succeeded in evoking what was best

in them. Of those who are referred to

in the biographical notice in question,

besides James and William Douglass, may

appropriately be mentioned in these pages,

first, Mr. John McConnochie, who, from the
death of Mr. Walker until his own decease in

1889, was engineer-in-chief of the Bute

Docks, but who, during the year 1855,

assisted Mr. Nicholas Douglass at the
12 Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass.

erection of the stone tower on the Bishop
rock; secondly, his younger brother Mr. James
A. McConnochie, who prepared, under
Mr. Walker's directions, the drawings for
many of the most important lighthouses
that were designed by the latter, and who
eventually became engineer of the Surrey
Commercial Docks and the Port Talbot
Railway and Docks Company ; and, lastly,
Mr. Thomas Ormiston, who, for thirteen
years ending 1877, held the highly
responsible position, in which he greatly
distinguished himself, of engineer-in-chief
to the Bombay Port Trust, but who had
formerly assisted Mr. Walker on lighthouse
work generally, was resident engineer at
the erection of the Needles rock lighthouse,
(completed in 1859) and designed and
constructed, while at Bombay, a lighthouse
on the Prongs, a dangerous reef at the
entrance to the harbour thereat, as also
the lighthouse on the Sunk rock in the

same locality.
CHAPTER II.

James Douglass was a worthy son of his
intrepid father. It has already been pointed

out how the roving, romantic life which he

and his brother led, when lads, was calculated

toj foster those qualities which would stand

them in good stead during the stirring

years that were before them. But the

children really inherited the pluck and

endurance which they afterwards so con

spicuously showed. Of James it has been
                    only two          of age,
related that, when  " running  years  a plank
his father saw him              over

laid across a giddy height. The workmen

were about to cry out in horror, but

Mr. Douglass sternly ordered silence, and

the baby reached his father safely, without

any sign of fear."

   At the Bishop, James, though always

ready to defer to his father's superior
judgment in the direction of the rock

operations, took the chief part in their
execution, for Mr. Nicholas Douglass was

now about fifty years old, and, while still
14 Life of

wonderfully energetic for his years, was

naturally not so  active as his  equally
brave son. So                    as the
                  " Cap'n Jim,"
workmen called him, --Cornish people are

very generous in the bestowal of that

prefix, --was the life and soul, --bore much
of the brunt,--of this difficult enterprise.

During the summer months the super

vising engineers and the working staff resided

on Rosevear, an otherwise uninhabited

island or rock, of small area. Here they
were within a couple of miles of the Bishop,

could clearly see, in ordinary states of the

atmosphere, what probability there was

of effecting a landing thereon, and quickly

reach that site when there proved to be

the least chance of working there. But

the life on Rosevear was often one of

extreme discomfort and misery. Frequently,

for considerable periods, the lighthouse

builders were shut off by rough weather

from all communication with the other

islands ; and, on more than one occasion

when their provisions gave out, were glad
to satisfy the cravings of hunger by eating
raw limpets. In fine weather, however,

they caught plenty of fish, generally in
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.             15

nets set at night, and at suitable seasons

of the year had abundance of wild birds',

-- chiefly puffins', -- eggs ; while the

vegetables which they grew in the crevices

of the rock were noted for their size and

excellence. There was, sometimes, a little

festivity too. On one memorable occasion

invitations were received, by dwellers on

the other islands, from the officers and men

at Rosevear, to a grand ball. The sheds

were all cleared of their contents, brilliantly

illuminated, and decorated with bunting,

and, at the expected hour, the visitors

arrived in innumerable boats. Dancing

was kept up until early morning (when
the guests rowed back in the moonlight)

to the accompaniment of the barrack band,

led by James Douglass, who played well
on the flute, and could tame the wild birds

by getting on to a ledge of rock and

performing on that instrument.  There

was to him, moreover, this advantage, that,

during the lonely period of his sojourn at

Rosevear, he had plenty of opportunities

for study ; and these he turned to excellent

account, devoting most of his spare time

to engineering reading and mathematics.
1 6 Life of

It is well known that the Celtic races are

very superstitious ; and, even until a com

paratively recent date, there was, according
to William Bottrell, that delightful narrator

of Cornish myths and legends, a tradition

at the Scilly Isles that the sad fate which
overtook Sir Cloudesley Shovel was due

to the maledictions of one of his sailors.
This man,-- so goes the story, -- was a
native of Scilly, and, from his acquaintance

with the locality, knew that the course

which the ship was steering would inevitably

take her on to the rocks ; which view he

represented to the Admiral with such
persistence that Sir Cloudesley and his

officers at last condemned the unfortunate

sailor to death for "insubordination and

endeavouring  to excite a mutiny."
" When," says Mr. Bottrell, " the poor

fellow was tied to the mast, preparatory to

his being suspended by his neck from the

yard-arm, he begged, as a last favour, that a

Psalm might be read before his execution.

His request being granted, he selected the

109th, and repeated certain imprecatory
portions of it after the reader ; and the last

words he uttered were to the effect that
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  17

Sir Cloudesley Shovel and those who saw

 him hanged should never reach the land

alive." The death-sentence had scarcely been
carried out, when the ship struck on the
Gilstone, and, in a few minutes, went down

with all her crew, except one seaman, who is

supposed to have furnished the particulars of
this ghastly tale.

   The workmen, -- mostly Cornish, -- who

lived on Rosevear had all the superstition of
their race; and scarcely one of them, though
he would have faced, bravely enough, any
tangible danger, cared to stay alone on the
island, for fear of ghosts. On one occasion
a blacksmith, who had been obliged to do so,
heard strains of beautiful music, and

looked for the boats which he at first thought
must be bringing his comrades back, but
none were visible ; whence he knew that the
music was not of this world.

    But, if there were hardships and miseries
to endure on Rosevear, there was danger as
well to face on the Bishop. Throughout

the early stages of the work, there was no
shelter whatever from the heavy seas which,
often quite unexpectedly, swept over the rock,
the men at such times throwing themselves

                                                                                         c
18 Life of

down and clinging to one another, for
support, with a grip so intense as sometimes

to cause flesh wounds. To get on to the

rock was generally difficult, and, to get off,
frequently more so, many of the company
being often detained there until late at night
before they could board the boats, and James
Douglass being always the last to leave, as
he had been the first to land. " When

embarking was dangerous," says a survivor
of those who were engaged at the Bishop,

" Cap'n Jim would give the men his watch,
boots, &c, see all the others in the boats,

cast off the ropes, and swim through the
surf." Then, after the building operations
were commenced, there was a particular

gully in which a party of masons,-- led, of

course, by a Douglass, -- had to set the lowest
stones of the work ; when someone placed
above them on watch would shout out that

there was a big sea coming ; and, suddenly,
would burst upon them a tremendous wave

by which they were immersed to a depth of

a dozen feet, they clinging, meanwhile,
to iron stanchions fixed in the rock, and
emerging at last breathless, and sometimes
utterly exhausted, with the prospect of a
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  19

 similar experience shortly afterwards. Often,

 too, one or more of the working staff, -- not all
 of whom could swim, -- would be washed out

 into the boiling surf, at which times James
  Douglass was sure to be among the first to

 rush to the rescue ; and the life of one

 drowning man, in particular, was saved at
 the risk of his own. Nor was he only
 capable of heroic deeds in moments of

 excitement, but could display a fine chivalry
 in times of comparative calm, as the following
 incident proves. He was engaged for a
 while, during the intervals of working at

 the Bishop, in erecting a beacon on the

 Woolpack rock, Scilly ; and, one very rough
day, when he was at the latter site with only

one workman, there was some mistake about

the arrangements for conveying them on
shore. No means were available for the

purpose, and it appeared probable that the
two would have to remain, in a standing
position, until the next tide. In this dilemma
a small boat passed, and offered to try and

take off " the master ", -- not the man, for

whom she could not find room ; but the
former refused to go, without his assistant
(who would not, however, have been in any
20 Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.

danger had he been left) feeling that, to do
so, would be a breach of good-comradeship.

   On the rock, when not occupied in direct
ing others, he would turn his hand to
anything. The late Captain John Fulford

Owen, an Elder Brother of the Trinity

House, once said, speaking from his own
personal knowledge : " Mr. Douglass was not
only an engineer, but he was a blacksmith, a
carpenter, and a mason in his own person,
as well as a seaman."
CHAPTER III.

The granite blocks for the Bishop tower were

supplied in a rough or scappled state from

Carnsew and Lamorna quarries, Cornwall.

They were dressed in a workyard at St.

Mary's, and conveyed to the rock, during the

e" aBrliylloswtag" essaoilfinthge  erecting operations, by  the
                                   tender, and afterwards    in
barges towed by a steam tug (the " Bishop ")
which was named after the station.
At the end of 1852, --forty-four stones

having then been laid in the lower courses,

--James Douglass temporarily severed his
connection with the Trinity House. He

had been engaged for more than five years

in lighthouse-building, and was desirous of

obtaining some fresh engineering experience,

which he now saw he could do, without

detriment to the work that had so benefited

by his assistance in the past ; for his brother
William, having served an apprenticeship
with the well-known engineering firm of
Messrs. R. Stephenson & Co., of Newcastle-

on-Tyne, had since been helping informally

                                                                 '
22 Life of

at the Bishop, and was already showing

unmistakable promise of that high capacity

which has long placed him in the

foremost rank of the world's lighthouse

engineers. Besides, James felt that the
time had come when, in justice to himself,

he ought to be improving his temporal

affairs ; for then, as in after life, he held

it to be the duty of a young man to

endeavour, by all honest means, to make

his way in the world, --to secure at least
a modest competence,--and this even for

his own sake, though others might not

be dependent on him ; being wise enough

to know that position, like knowledge, is

power, and that subversive of all proper

self-respect are the shifts of the culpably

needy. But, while he was thus eminently

practical,  ojfus"twlyaitsicnogrnfinogr   the Micawber-like
attitude                                 something to turn

up," his duty to himself in this connection was

always subordinated to higher considerations.

Some words which he wrote, not long

before his death, to his youngest son,

Alfred, correctly describe the principles

by which his own conduct had ever been
actuated : " Do your best as before, and
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.            23

let no one be able to say that better could
be done " ; and again : " Do not be in any

hurry to make money for money's sake,

but strive to make yourself useful in this

world as your duty lies." And yet he could

not help seeing, as no shrewd observer

can, that a man's usefulness is often

crippled by his poverty, and that, even in

regard to mere mundane affairs, there are

just limits to self-abnegation.      Hence,

though he never read much poetry, and

fsreolmdomthequ"oEtepdistle: it,   there was one verse,
                                  to a young friend " by

the bard of Scotia, that he liked to repeat

for the benefit of those about to engage

in the battle of life

"To catch dame Fortune's golden smile,;

       Assiduous wait upon her
  And gather gear by every wile

       That's justified by honour;
  Not for to hide in hedge,

      Nor for train attendant,

  But for the glorious privilege
      Of being independent."
a

        it

                     a

    Having, however, in his own case, attained
that happy end, he was always ready to use,
for the benefit of others less fortunate, the
24 Life of

means which his self-denying industry had

secured.

   Accordingly, to the regret of the entire
working staff, who signified their admiration
and regard for their young leader by a

graceful presentation, he applied for, and

was successful in obtaining, the post of

manager of Messrs. R. J. & R. Laycock's

railway carriage works at Stella, about
five miles from Newcastle-on-Tyne, and,
on the 24th of December, left Scilly for
London, to take leave of Mr. Walker
and assume his new duties, being
succeeded at the Bishop by his brother
William, who, season after season, co
operated with his father in pressing
towards completion the new tower until,
in September 1858, that "magnificent"

building, --to quote a phrase which was

applied to it by the Royal Commissioners
who were then prosecuting their laborious

enquiry on lights, buoys, and beacons, --

 was illuminated with a powerful dioptric

 apparatus.

    The Corporation of Trinity House took
the earliest opportunity of recording the
high sense they entertained "of the good
        Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  25

services rendered by every person engaged

in this difficult operation," and of

expressing their warmest appreciation

of the labours of Mr. Nicholas Douglass

(whom   they presented with a handsome
sum of  money) " to whose intrepid courage

and energy, combined with the coolest

judgment and forethought, may be ascribed

the successful termination of a work carried

on during a period of eight years under

circumstances at all times dangerous, and
frequently of great peril, without loss of

life, or the occurrence of any accident of

a serious nature." The cost of this

enterprise was .£34,560, and that of the

/iron structure  which  was destroyed,
    1 2,500.
There was some difficulty, when the

tower was nearly ready for lighting, in

finding keepers to inhabit it ; but the
dilemma was met by two of the best of

the workmen who had been employed in

erecting the building volunteering, andis,
being accepted, for the duty. The fact

the spot was known to be, on the whole,

perhaps the roughest of any lighthouse

station in the world, and then there was
26 Life of

the memory of the disastrous fate of the

first structure to scare even the ordinarily

brave ; or else such an incident is quite

exceptional in official experience, light

keepers readily going anywhere under

orders. All honour to them ! They are

a worthy body of men, the value of whose

services to the general weal is not sufficiently

understood by the public.

The reader has possibly had the curiosity

to visit, during a holiday at the seaside,

some shore lighthouse, such as Dovercourt,
or North Foreland, or Bull Point. Looking

over the nicely kept establishment, and

seeing the pleasant dwellings (with their
trim gardens) in which the keepers and

their families reside, he has perhaps thought,

if he hasn't said : '* A very comfortable

life such men must lead. I wouldn't mind

being a light keeper myself." O yes ! we
are all so quick to see the advantages of

other people's lot, and the disadvantages

of our own.    But don't you    know, reader,
              don't it is time
--and if you                    you should, --

that there is not one of these keepers who,

before he became eligible for his present

comparatively agreeable post on shore,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  27

has not had to serve for a long term of
years at a rock station, and, unless he

has done so more than once, may not
have to endure a similar experience again ?

And the life of a keeper at a rock station,

such as the Eddystone, the Wolf, the Smalls,

or the Bishop, is, indeed, very far from an
enviable one. Separated from his family
and friends, and from all human society,
save that of his two colleagues, he is
deprived of the pleasures of communication
with, or intelligence of, the great outer
world, except when the long-wished-for
monthly relief comes round, which, at least,

brings him letters and news from home,
though his turn to go on shore for a short
time may not have arrived. But, during
the winter months, his lot is rendered

increasingly irksome by his being prevented,
often for days and weeks together, from
quitting his dwelling, and venturing down
to the rock on which his house stands.

Confined within the straitened dimensions
of his prison, which trembles with each shock

of the monster waves that dash themselves

against its massive walls and break in

foam over its lantern, --the wild sky above,
28 Life of

the wilder waste of waters around, -- the

man has need to be upborne by, at least,

the occasional thought of the benevolent
mission in which he is engaged, -- viz : that
of guiding to her destined haven the ship

           "That bears the sailor to his wife,
            And travelled men from foreign lands,
            And letters unto trembling hands ; "

he has need to be upborne by, at least, this

occasional thought, --in order not to sink into

the lowest depths of gloom and despair.
    In June 1854 James returned to Scilly,

and married Mary, the second daughter of
Captain James Tregarthen, shipowner, of
St. Mary's, and brother of the Trinity House
agent already mentioned. The wedding
took place on the 6th of July, amid general

rejoicings ; for the bride, both attractive and
accomplished, was a member of one of the
most highly respected local families, and the

bridegroom immensely popular. As this

biography will deal only slightly with the
home life of its subject, it may here be stated
that, making allowance for those bereave
ments and sorrows which, alas ! are the
common lot of mortals, this union proved to
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  29

is,be one of singular felicity ; so that, when
Mr. Douglass' eldest daughter was about to
be married, he felt he could not express a

better wish for her than that her wedded life

might prove as happy as that of her parents

had been.

   Mr. Douglass and his young wife remained
at Stella only until the spring of 1855, when
he re-entered the service of his old employers.
The comparatively routine work of his recent
post was, doubtless, uncongenial to a man of
his temperament and training, though, how
ever distasteful the duty which he had to

perform at any time, he could always be relied
on to do it thoroughly and well ; so much so,

that of him, as of the great Lord Brougham,
it was true that, had he been a shoeblack, he

would have sought to become the best shoe
black in> England. Thus, he ever showed

his fitness for more responsible duties, not
by despising and shirking the work that was
prosaic, or even mean, but by so performing
the commonest task as to raise it to the

dignity of a fine art. Truly has it been

said : " A man that will not do well in his

present place, because he longs to be higher,
is fit neither to be where he nor yet above
30 Life of

it ; he is already too high, and should be put
lower." As a matter of fact, Mr. Douglass'

working hours on the Tyne, --such was the
zeal that he displayed, --averaged from five

in the morning until eight at night ; and he

won golden opinions from all around him.
But, besides the general attraction of his

former life of high and hardy endeavour,

there was, just then, a particular bait to lure

him back to the work he loved so well ; for
the project of erecting a new granite light

house upon the Smalls rocks was, at that time,

under contemplation by the Trinity House,

and who more fitted than he to be entrusted

with the carrying out of that important

enterprise ? Meanwhile, he took charge of

the construction of the screw pile light

house on the Gunfleet sands, erected a

beacon on the Runnelstone rock, and then

was ready for his new post.

   With reference, however, to the remark

that has been made as to his work, while on

the Tyne,  being of a routine nature,   it may
here be                                risk of
           said, -- though at the
digression, --before that part of his life is

finally lost sight of, that there was, at least,

one element of adventure in it. Mr. Douglass,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  31

every Friday evening, had to fetch from the

counting house (two miles off) the money for

the weekly wages. His walk lay across a

desolate hill where a murder had recently
been committed, and in that mining district
rough people abounded. He always, at
such times, carried a revolver ; but, on the

dark nights of winter, the poor wife's anxiety,
until his return, was naturally great. When

he was at Solva, engaged in erecting the

new Smalls lighthouse, he never failed, also,
to arm himself with a similar weapon on his

journeys by trap to Haverfordwest, -- a

distance of about twelve miles along lonely

roads, --to draw money from the bank. But,

though he deemed it best, as a prudent man,
thus to guard himself against attack, he
really never knew what fear was. Once, for
example, on the Smalls rock a big bully of a
workman, who fancied he had a grievance,

squared up to him in a threatening manner,

but soon had cause to regret his temerity, --

quickly finding his opponent more than his
match in the game of fisticuffs.
CHAPTER IV.

In the summer of 1856, Mr. Douglass

received his first really important appoint

ment under the Trinity House, viz : that

of resident engineer at the erection of the
new Smalls lighthouse, and, on the 16th of

August, accompanied by the first contingent

of his working party, consisting mainly of

Cornish miners, smiths and seamen, arrived,
in the " Buoy Yacht " sailing tender from

Cowes, at the little village of Solva (near the
ancient city of St. David's, Pembrokeshire)
where the workyard was to be established.

   The dangerous group of rocks called the
Smalls is situated about eighteen and a half

miles off Milford Haven, and on it had existed,

s"insctreang1e776,wowohdaetn  has been  aptly styled a
                              - legged  Malay - looking

barracoon of a lighthouse ". This structure

was originally intended to be erected on cast

iron pillars, but these were soon abandoned

for eight of English oak, the latter material

being, in such a position, more elastic and

trustworthy than metal, safely yielding, as
      Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass. 33

it did, to the shock of the waves. The
vibrations of the building, however, were
somewhat alarming in rough weather, being

sufficient to cause a bucketful of water, placed
in the living-room, to spill half its contents,
and to affect with sea-sickness a light-keeper

unused to the motion. The approach to the
habitable part of the structure was by means
of a rope ladder, which, as the visitor

ascended, swayed in the wind to a perilous
extent. Arrived at the top, he pushed open
a trap-door, and, entering, found himself
in the only living-room which the house

contained, --an apartment so low that the

principal light-keeper (a tall man) was
unable to stand upright in it.

   This quaint and curious building was
originally projected by Mr. John Phillips, a
merchant and shipowner of Liverpool, as
" a great holy good to serve and save

humanity." It was designed and erected

by Mr. Henry Whiteside, who, though a
born engineer, had previously chiefly dis
tinguished himself in the construction of
violins, spinets and upright harpsichords.
" His undertaking ", --to quote from an
interesting little pamphlet, published in
34 Life °f

1858 by Ivor Emlyn, a gentleman who was
                               the family of
connected by marriage with
this enterprising lighthouse  builder,--" was

a sudden transition from the sweet and

harmonious sounds of his own musical

instruments to the rough surging of the

Atlantic wave, and the discordant howling

of a maddened hurricane ; and from the

fastening of a delicately formed fiddle to the

fixing of giant oaken -pillars in a rock as

hard as adamant." And Mr. Whiteside's

very first visit to the Smalls, with his

workmen, must have forcibly impressed this

contrast on his mind ; for, says Mr. Emlyn :

"they had only time, after landing, to fix

some three or four feet of one of their long

iron bars into the rock, before a sharp breeze

from the southward gave rise to an ugly sea,

completely covering the rock at intervals,

and compelling their vessel to forsake her

cruising ground, leaving the hapless occupants

of the rock to save themselves from being

washed off, by clinging, en masse, to the

half-secured iron rod. During the night,

several of them were nearly carried away by

the force of the sea, and were found on the

third day,--by the crew of the vessel who
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  35

had been able to land, --in a very exhausted

state." The gallant engineer and his trusty

operatives were, however, not to be daunted

by the difficulties and dangers of their
arduous task ; but, in spite of all obstacles,
persevered with their great undertaking
until, at the end of the third season, the

lighthouse was successfully completed. And,

that the structure was well and substantially
built, is shown by the fact that it safely stood
during the long term of eighty-five years,
when it was demolished on the completion of
the present granite tower. Mr. Whiteside's

building was erected in the days of private
ownership in lighthouses, on which subject

a few words may here be not irrelevant.
    The first light under the management of

the Trinity House was established in 1680 ;
all lighthouses in this country previous to

that time, and many that have been built
since, having been put up by private
persons, who, under patents obtained from

the sovereign, levied dues on passing ships,
and frequently derived considerable fortunes

therefrom. " A speculative man," says an

eminent modern writer, " would propose to

erect a lighthouse, just as he might propose
36 Life of

to sink a coal mine. If there was a dangerous

rock at sea, in front of a seaport, any man

might propose to the Trinity House to erect
a building there, for the purpose of guiding

ships, in which case he was allowed to levy

dues on the ships that passed. Or, if he

had political influence, he might use it for
the purpose of obtaining a lighthouse."

It is only, indeed, since 1836 that private

ownership in lighthouses has been abolished
by Act of Parliament ; and some idea of the

wealth which must have accrued from such

property may be gathered from the fact that,
for the proprietorship of the antiquated and
rickety old building on the Smalls rocks, no

£less a sum than 1 70,468 had to be paid by

the Corporation of Trinity House.

   It was at this lighthouse, --by the way, --

that, in 1802, occurred the tragic incident,
so well known, of one of only two light

keepers then stationed there being taken
ill, and in a few weeks dying, and the survivor,
Thomas Howell, being, for the long period

of three additional weeks, --during which

time the weather was too rough to admit
of a landing, as, indeed, it had been for three

months previously, --left alone with the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.          37

corpse, which he feared to bury in the

sea, lest, as a narrator of this story has
picturesquely remarked, " those on shore

should question him, as Cain was questioned

for his brother, and he, failing to produce

him, should be branded with Cain's curse

and meet a speedier fate." Howell gallantly

kept the light burning every night, through

out the terrible six or seven weeks that

elapsed from his comrade's first illness until

relief arrived ; but, when he came on shore

with his dead colleague, his "attenuated

form," says Mr. Emlyn in relating this sad

tale, "demonstrated the sufferings, both

mental and physical, he had undergone ;

his friends, in some instances, failed to

recognise him on his return home. Four

months in such a      place,   and    under such
circumstances, what           it not  effect ? "
                     would

The new tower, which was designed by

Mr. Walker, to supersede this singular

old building was of granite, which came,
in a rough state, from the De Lank

quarries, near Bodmin, Cornwall, and

was dressed in the workyard at Solva.

Mr. Douglass effected his first landing on

the rock, with his executive staff, on the
38 Life of

2nd of September 1856 ; the work of cutting
and blasting the foundation was completed
by, and the first stone of the structure laid
on, the 26th of June 1857; at the end of
the working season of that year the third

course was completed ; the seventeenth

course at the end of the season of 1858 ;
the forty-eighth course at the end of the
season of 1859 ; and the light was exhibited
on the 7th of August 1861, a dioptric
apparatus of the first order taking the
place of the catoptric one,--consisting of
twenty-seven argand burners and twenty-one
inch parabolic reflectors, -- with which the
old lighthouse was illuminated. The work
was completed at a cost of .£50,125, being
about twenty-four per cent, under the
amount of the lowest of the tenders that

had been obtained from contractors for its
execution. This highly successful result
was mainly due to the indomitable zeal
and energy of the resident engineer, who,
instead of delegating his duties to foremen
or others, never failed, says one who was
employed under him during the greater
part of the five years that the " Smalls "

was in course of building, to accompany
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  39

the working party to the rock, where, as

at the Bishop, he was always the first to
land and the last to leave, seeing his men
safe in the boats before he himself followed.

The erection of this lighthouse was attended
with many difficulties and dangers ; and
the resident engineer, with the whole of
the rock party, forty-two in number,
once narrowly escaped foundering with
their vessel, viz. : on the occasion of

the historical gale, which commenced on
the 25th of October 1859, when the " Royal
Charter" went down, off the coast of Anglesea,
with four hundred and fifty-nine lives.

    As it was, there were two accidents that
proved fatal. In May 1860 a stone-mason
(who, with others, was then living in
the granite tower completing the interior)
while crossing from the old to the new
lighthouse, was struck by a sea that

rebounded from the latter building, and
carried him off the rock. Every effort was
made to save him with a life-buoy and lines,

but without success, the sea being very
rough at the time. " Awful sight ! " wrote in
his diary Mr. Rees, the then principal keeper
at the Smalls. And, in the following
40 Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass.

September, the thread of a bolt " stripped,"

and let the iron jib of the landing crane

down upon a Cornish miner named Thomas

Oats, injuring the poor fellow's spine to

such an extent that he died, after terrible

suffering, at the end of about five weeks.

" A more steady, persevering and trustworthy

man," wrote Mr. Douglass in reporting this

latter occurrence, u I never had in my

employ."  Oats was, indeed, a favourite

with every one, and his sad fate cast quite

a gloom over the work.
                    CHAPTER V.

The following is an outline of the process

pursued in the erection of the new Smalls
lighthouse. During the spring and summer

months, when alone the rock operations
could, as a rule, be safely carried on, the

executive engineer and his working party,
composed of forty or fifty artificers, seamen,
and labourers, resided on board their sailing
barrack, which was moored at a short

distance from the rock ; and from her they
rowed to the latter in boats as early every
morning as the state of the sea, or of the

tide, permitted of their landing, --often at
daybreak, --returning to the vessel when the

rock no longer afforded the men a safe
footing, or when approaching night rendered
further work until the morrow impracticable.
In the meantime, a steam tug of sixty
nominal horse power, which was specially
built for this purpose, plied between the
workyard and the Smalls, a distance of
twenty-two miles, towing one or two forty
ton barges containing the materials of the
42 Life of

tower, and returning for other cargoes as
often as the previous ones had been
discharged. When the weather became
tempestuous, and the executive engineer
saw little chance of resuming the building
operations for several days, the vessels,
with all hands on board, returned to
Solva, where the men proceeded with the
preparation of further work for the rock,
until an improvement in the weather
rendered possible the resumption of their
labours at sea. That those labours were

exhausting, will appear from the fact that
the men worked on the Smalls, during one
week, an average net time of sixteen and
a half hours per day, and frequently worked
seventeen and eighteen hours on single
days. And that they were dangerous, will
be evident when it is stated that each man

was compelled to wear a life-belt at his
post ; that eye-bolts, with ropes attached,
had to be fixed in the rock as holdfasts

for the executive party, in the not improbable
event of the sea suddenly rushing upon
them ; and that the surf often rose so rapidly
around the rock that the landing boats
could not approach sufficiently near to take
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.      43

off the men, who then had to jump into

the seething water, with a rope fastened to

their waist, and be hauled to the far-distant

boats by the seamen who formed the crews.

In all these scenes of hardship and of

peril the resident engineer, as need scarcely

be said, was the tried and trusted leader.

When, in the erection of the third Eddystone

lighthouse, there was a duty to perform of an

exceptionally hazardous nature, Smeaton

always placed himself in the most dangerous
position, which he called "the post of
honour ; " and all successful rock lighthouse
builders since his day (the Douglasses of
the English, the Stevensons of the Scotch,

Lighthouse Service) have worthily imitated
their great predecessor in this respect. And

to the fact that these brave men have, in the

execution of their dangerous duties, counted

not their lives dear unto them, the lives of

multitudes of their fellow-men, both now

and in far distant ages, owe, or  will yet
owe, their preservation.          fittingly

   And here, perhaps, may be

inserted some interesting reminiscences,

which have been specially written for this

memoir, by Mr. Frederick Spurr, late a
44 Life of

principal light keeper in the Trinity House

service, but who, in 1859, during the

building of the new tower on the Smalls

rocks, became assistant keeper in the old

lighthouse thereat, where he remained for

several years. Mr. Spurr, -- a man of

education and veracity, highly intelligent and

observing, who had exceptional opportunities

of witnessing the conduct, and studying the

character, of the resident engineer during

the progress of the new structure, -- is

peculiarly qualified to convey an accurate

idea of the subject of this biography at

that time. And the following is the graphic

account which he has prepared.
   " I was in May 1859
situation of light keeper  glad    to accept the
                           at the  old " Smalls,"

and have a perfect memory of my first

introduction to Sir J. N. Douglass. I soon
recognised him to be the right man in the

right  place, a leader  of men, not   one   to say
" you   do this " or                  not  able to
                        " that " and

do the thing himself. Venturesome almost

to rashness, yet never foolhardy ; a man
who then, and ever after, gave proof of his

belief in the doctrine, often preached but

seldom practised, ' the dignity and ennobling
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  45

power of work.' No task that could advance
the work he had in hand did he deem

beneath his notice or lowering to his personal
dignity. By boldly taking this path, he
struck a death-blow at the preposterous idea

of many of his workmen, who thought their
caste in danger if they did any but the one

task they were pleased to call their own
peculiar trade. Sir James, by example, soon
convinced his men that the fact of a man

being a good stonemason did not render
him unfit to lend a helping hand to a smith
or carpenter ; there was a task to be done,
and he and they were the men who had to
do it ; so his mechanics, good as they were
in their own selected branches of work, soon,

under his leading, learned to be a help to the
sailors of the tug and tender employed on

the work, and as boatmen they were one and
all hard to match and harder to beat. In all

these things he, the master-spirit, was better

than the best man there. I very soon
noticed one striking trait in his character,
his power of mentally absorbing and applying

ideas that did not originate in his own mind,
but were brought under his notice, sometimes

by design, at others in conversation.
46 Life of

    " I hardly know which of his most marked

qualities of character, his tenacity of purpose,

or his personal courage, I most admired.
I have often seen him achieve seeming
impossibilities by dint of what, in others, I
should have called mere obstinacy. His
personal courage was indisputable. I have

frequently seen him deliberately act as none

but a coolly brave man does. I remember
a fearful storm, one of the worst I ever

encountered, springing up so suddenly that

it was impossible for all the workmen to

return from the house rock to the "Buoy

Yacht," a floating barrack moored about half
a mile from the old " Smalls." The men

had to put up with such poor quarters as the

lighthouse  could afford them. During  the
night the   " Buoy Yacht " had to let  go

her moorings, and, the weather being

so tempestuous, the nearest harbour that

could be safely made was in the Bristol

Channel, from whence she was sailed to

her station at Solva as soon as the weather

would permit. At the earliest possible

opportunity Sir J. N. Douglass and a

volunteer crew came off to the rescue of the

imprisoned workmen. The sea, at low
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  47

water, was making a clean sweep over the

greater part of the rocks, so that it was
impossible to land at any of the recognised

landing places, or even to approach the

house rock, the one on which the

imprisoned men were, but, by dint of

watching for the least unfavourable chance,

a boat manned by Sir J. N. Douglass and a

volunteer crew, mostly masons, made a bold

dash, and after being nearly swamped or

overset many times, at last got so near to
one of the outlying rocks that Sir James and
one other brave man, at the risk of their

lives, managed to make a landing, the seas

dashing over them, now hiding them in

clouds of spray, anon all but sweeping them
Itoff their feet.
                   was a fight for life, not

only their own, but for those whom they

came to relieve. At last a rope was passed

from the outlying to the house rock, and

these two heroes forced their dangerous way,

now swimming, now clinging to the weed-

covered rocks, till they joined hands with

those who anxiously waited their assistance

in gaining the boat and steam tug, thereby

escaping the confined space and short

allowance of food, which they had to bear as
48 Life of

best they could, while they were most

unwilling guests of most unwilling hosts on

the old Smalls lighthouse. Since then it
has been my fate to see many bold deeds

done, but never one to eclipse for courage and

endurance that which I now record, after the

lapse of more than forty years. Nearly all of
those who, with myself, witnessed or assisted

in this adventure have passed away, as he

has who so nobly led it. I do not think

this brave deed of our lion-hearted friend

was ever made public. I am sure he himself

would have been the last to claim any merit

for the action. He would have said he was

only doing his duty by the men he led,

and who so entirely trusted his leadership.

Can we wonder at such a man being so
           "
trusted
         ?

As Mr. Douglass shared to the full the

excessive labours of his staff when at sea, so,

when on shore, he worked precisely the same

hours as they, and often several beyond. By
six o'clock in the mornings of summer, and

seven in those of winter, he was always in

the yard, which meant getting up at least

half an hour before those times ; and, though

the labours of the others closed at six in the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  49

evening, he was generally engaged in his

office on drawings, calculations, accounts, or
correspondence until eight or nine at night,
and sometimes later. He could certainly
have said, from his inmost heart, with

Mrs. Browning, either then, or at any other
period before his health broke down :

                             " Get leave to work
          In this world,-- 'tis the best you get at all ;
          For God, in cursing, gives us better gifts

           Than men in benediction."

Even when he had settled in London, he

was a very early riser, having usually got

through a couple of hours' writing at home

before commencing his duties at the Trinity

House, where, nevertheless, he was invariably

one of the first to arrive. He had, however,

the happy gift of being able to sleep with
the same thoroughness that he worked. His

slumber was no mere listless half-hearted

apology for the genuine thing, but good,

sound, honest    sleep,  that really did knit up
                sleave   of care," and from even
" the ravelled

a short spell of which he would awake like a

giant refreshed.
CHAPTER VI.

The Smalls lighthouse is solid for forty-five

and a half feet above the base, with the

exception of the space for the entrance,
and its total height to the top of the

gallery course is one hundred and fourteen
feet. The building has six rooms, the walls

being five feet in thickness at the bottom,

tapering to two feet at the top. It contains

seventy-three courses in all.

   Mention has been made of " dioptric "
and " catoptric " lights ; and, for the benefit

of the unprofessional reader, a brief account

of the development of coast illumination

may here be not inappropriate.

The idea of a lighthouse        of course,
;

                                is is,
                                              is
old. The Colossus of Rhodes, erected

about three hundred years B.C., supposed

to have been used as a beacon for guiding

the mariner and in Josephus there                 a

reference to the fires that were shown in

the famous Pharos of Alexandria, completed
two hundred and eighty-five years B.C. The

first lighthouse in this country appears to
       Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass. 5 1

have been the one,--built before a.d. 53, --

which may still be seen, adjoining the ancient

church at Dover Castle. It is only, however,

within the last century that the illumination
of lighthouses has assumed anything like
scientific proportions. The lights previously

shown from them were usually wood, pitch
or coal fires; and it was but in 1822 that

the last coal beacon fire, viz. : that at
St. Bees lighthouse on the coast of
Cumberland, was extinguished. Even

Smeaton's noble tower on the Eddystone, --

which may be looked upon as the model

of all subsequent rock lighthouses, --was,

when completed in 1759, merely illuminated
by twenty-four wax candles, which required
snuffing, and were devoid of any optical
appliance for concentrating their rays upon
the sea, and thus preventing waste of
light. The earliest known reflector used in
lighthouses was invented, in 1763, by one
William Hutchinson, a master mariner of
Liverpool. The surface of this reflector

was nearly parabolic in form, and was

covered with small facets of glass. The
reflector was furnished with a rude oil lamp,

having a flat wick about one and an eighth
52 Life of

inch wide, and is estimated to have augmented

the initial intensity of the flame about

thirty-six times. But, seventeen years

later, a more important step in lighthouse

illumination was the invention of the

cylindrical wick lamp of Argand, after

whom it was named ; and this lamp, in

combination with silvered parabolic reflectors,

was soon afterwards adopted in several of our

lighthouses. The system thus established

is still in force, under the name of the

catoptric or reflecting system. It consists

in a number of Argand lamps, fitted within

twenty-one inch diameter silvered parabolic

reflectors, arranged close to each other

around a column in the centre of the

lantern.  The twenty - four large wax

candles employed, as before mentioned, in

Smeaton's tower gave a light equivalent to

about sixty-seven standard sperm candles,

or units, of the present day. The value

of the catoptric system will appear from

the fact that when, in 1810, it was applied

to the Eddystone lighthouse, the intensity

of the light was increased to eleven

hundred and twenty-five of these candles

or units. But the grandest step of all in
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  53

lighthouse illumination was the invention,
in 1 8 1 9, of the dioptric or refracting system
of Fresnel, also, like Argand, a Frenchman.

This system consists of a lamp, having

from one to six or more concentric wicks,

placed in the centre of an elaborate and
beautiful series of glass lenses, so formed

as to refract the rays issuing from the
lamp, and concentrate them, with vastly
augmented intensity, upon the sea. The
importance of Fresnel's invention will be
apparent when it is stated that, on its

application, in 1845, to tne Eddystone

lighthouse, the light thereat was increased
from eleven hundred and twenty-five to
three thousand two hundred and sixteen

standard candles, which power was augmented

in 1872, by the introduction of a larger
lamp, to about seven thousand three hundred
and twenty-five candles.

   Owing to the limited dimensions of
Smeaton's building, it was never practicable
to instal in its lantern the most efficient
specimen of a dioptric apparatus. The

tower by which that famous lighthouse was,
in 1882, superseded, in consequence of

the rock upon which it was founded being
54 Life of

undermined by the sea, has, however,

been fitted with one of the most powerful
optical apparatus ever constructed. It is,

in fact, a double apparatus, consisting of
two tiers of lenticular panels, --twelve in

each tier, --in the centre of each of which

is placed a six - wick Douglass lamp of

eight     hundred candles      intensity.       The
two                        above the
       lamps, --fixed one                  other, --

are intended to be used together only when

the atmosphere is thick, one lamp being

sufficient for the purposes of the mariner

in ordinary weather.       The maximum

intensity available, with both lamps alight,

is sixteen hundred candles for the unaided

flames, and the enormous power of

seventy-nine thousand two hundred and

fifty candles when magnified and transmitted

to the sea by this two-fold optical appliance,

being one thousand one hundred and eighty-
three times the intensity of Smeaton's

original candles.
   The manufacture of dioptric apparatus

for lighthouses, it should here be stated,

is a highly difficult and delicate process ;
and, while there are several French firms,

there is only one English firm, capable of
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  55

 such work, viz. : that of Messrs. Chance

 Brothers and Co., of Spon Lane, near

 Birmingham. It was about the year 1850
 that Mr., now Sir, James T. Chance, who,

 besides being a graduate of Cambridge, was

 seventh wrangler, induced the great glass-
 making firm of which he was a member
 to embark in this scientific branch of

industry. For many years the work, owing
to its novelty and other causes, was

unremunerative, and was engaged in by
Mr. James Chance very much as a labour

of love ; but it has long proved in every

way a thoroughly successful enterprise, a

result largely due to the high business
capacity and varied talents of Mr. James

Kenward, F.S.A., who was for so lengthy
a term responsible for the management of

the lighthouse department of his firm, and
now represents the latter in London. The

recent scientific adviser to Messrs. Chance

was Dr. John Hopkinson F.R.S., --senior
--wrtahneglderistiinng1u8i7s1headndelfeircsttricSaml itehx'pseprtr,izewmhaonse,

tragic and widely regretted death, in August
1898, while Alpine-climbing, would have
deeply distressed the subject of this memoir,

had the latter then been alive. For the
56 Life of

elder engineer, a close personal friend, had

watched, with the utmost pride and pleasure,

the development of the younger one's

remarkable gifts, --gifts which made him,

in the words of Sir John Wolfe Barry,
when presiding, soon after Dr. Hopkinson's

death, over the mechanical section of the
British Association, at Bristol, an " ornament

to the world of science, whether it be

European or American," and "one of

the brightest ornaments of the century."

During his long connection with Messrs.

Chance, Dr. Hopkinson introduced many

improvements in optical apparatus for

lighthouses, and was the originator of the

group-flash system, which has proved so

efficient a means of differentiating the

various lights.

Mr. Douglass was very popular with those

who served under him at the Smalls, as a

man of his dash and daring would be likely

to be. One of them, Sam Dimond by name,

a stone-mason and rhymester, had truthfully

written, in a ballad which he composed,

descriptive of the life and adventures of the

rock party :
" Our master cheers our spirits up ; he is a gallant man ;

The first wherever danger  is,  he always leads the van."
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  57

    But the '' master " was kind as well as

brave ; and, though a strict disciplinarian, as
one in his position had to be, took a lively
interest in the welfare of his workpeople.
Thus, he established at Solva, for their use,

an excellent reading room, which not only

proved highly attractive, but self-supporting ;
encouraged thrift among them by starting a

savings bank, of which he was treasurer, --

paying interest on deposits at the rate of five
per cent. ; and, in the absence of a local
English place of worship, assembled the
working staff and their families twice
on Sundays, in the reading room above
mentioned, and read the church service for

the day, as well as a short homily from
Burder's " Village Sermons."

    Mention has been made of the principal
keeper at the old Smalls lighthouse, where,
by the way, he remained during the long
term of twenty years. He was a Mr. Henry
Rees, a most respectable, worthy man, the
following story of whom may interest the
student of the occult. It is given in the
words of Miss Alice Douglass, who has

rendered valuable assistance in the prepara
tion of this biography of her father. " One
it,58 Life of

of those curious warnings or visions, which
there is so much speculation about, came
under Mr. Douglass' notice whilst at Solva ;
and, as he was naturally incredulous of such
things, but was obliged to acknowledge this,
it is worth mentioning. One day, on visiting
the rock, he noticed that Rees, the head
keeper, was in a most unusual state of
depression ; and asked the cause. The man
told him he could not shake off a dream he
had the previous night. He saw, with great
vividness, a ship go down in a storm, and, in
spite of his efforts, he could only save three
men. Mr. Douglass laughed at the man's
fears and thought no more of the con
versation. He left the rock that night as
usual, but, before morning, such a gale was
blowing and continued that it was a week
before the steamer could again visit the rock.
On landing, to Mr. Douglass' great surprise,
it was found that Rees' dream had been

fulfilled in every detail. A Norwegian

sailing ship had foundered on the spot where
he had seen and he had saved three men,

who were then in the lighthouse, and the

additional mouths had caused provisions to
run short."
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  59

    Another reminiscence of the keepers at
the old Smalls lighthouse may not be
unacceptable to the reader. The senior
assistant to Mr. Rees, during the building of
the new tower, was " Tom " Bowen, as he

was familiarly called, -- a man not without

his weaknesses, but a great favourite with
Mr. Douglass, as indeed with all the work
men, for, beneath a surly manner, he hid
the kindest of hearts, and was everybody's
friend. Among many curious things that
Tom knew was every nook and cranny in

the rocks where the crabs were to be found,

and would put his arm into the holes, often
right up to the shoulder, and haul out, with

wonderful dexterity, --generally to make a
present to somebody else, --one fine specimen
after another of those shell-fish. He seldom

met with a mishap while engaged in this
dangerous sport, but once, at any rate, he
did, as the following extract from a rough

diary which was kept by the principal

keeper, -- a strict Sabbatarian, -- quaintly
records. " Sunday, 26th August. T. B.

after crabs ; one bit him by the hand to pay
him for Sunday."

    Before the completion of the work at the
60 Life of

Smalls, viz: in February 1861, Mr. Douglass
had the honour of being elected a member of

the Institution of Civil Engineers. Nor

were his employers, the Corporation of
Trinity House, slow to recognise his merits ;

for, about the same time, they secured his
services in advance for the execution of an

undertaking of even greater difficulty than

the one he was then finishing, viz : the

erection of a   lighthouse  wohnenthetheW"oSlfmraollcsk",
off the Land's  End ; and,

was actually completed, testified to the
" expedition and economy " with which that

work had been carried out, and      cotnoductthe"
" zealous perseverance and upright

of its resident engineer, whom they presented

with a cheque for a large sum of money, as
a tangible token of their approval.

After the erection of the beautiful new

granite tower, Mr. Douglass received orders
from the Trinity House to paint it externally

in red and white horizontal bands, a course

which seemed to those who knew little about

the matter to be a species of vandalism.

But, in lighthouse engineering, above all

professions, beauty has to yield to utility.

A lighthouse is not only " a pillar of fire by
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  61

night," but of "cloud by day", and it is the
dark or variegated cloud that, at the latter
time, soonest attracts notice. The Royal
Commissioners on lights, buoys, and beacons,

whose report was issued in 1861, made,
under the direction of their scientific member

Dr. J. H. Gladstone F.R.S., who still survives

in hale and honoured old age, a series
of careful observations, with the view of

determining the best colour for lighthouses,
and condemned the grey of granite as a

most unsuitable tint. They state : " It is

within the knowledge of persons who have
shot wild fowl on the water by day and
night, that dark-coloured birds are most

easily seen, and that young swans, which
are of a grey colour, are the most difficult

to distinguish of all wild fowl. It is also

well known that smugglers, and coastguard
men, and duck shooters, who wish to conceal

themselves on the water, paint their boats,
and often dress themselves, in white or grey."

   In October 1861, Mr. Douglass, accom

panied by his working staff, together
with the vessels and plant, left Solva for

Penzance, to assume his new duties,
his departure being the occasion of many
62 Life of

manifestations of regret by the inhabitants
of the former place. The presence, for

so long a period, of the busy hive of

lighthouse builders in that old-world

Welsh-speaking village, -- a pretty spot,

with its long winding creek or natural

harbour, --had been an excellent thing

for the little port, reviving, in a wonderful

manner, its almost stagnant trade. Its

dwellers, however, thoroughly deserved such
grist as thus came to their mill, for
they were a quiet, kind and courteous
people. Nor was their regret at the loss
of their English friends due to interested
motives merely. There had sprung up
many attachments between the settlers and
the villagers ; while towards Mr. Douglass,
in particular, there was but one feeling
entertained by the residents, viz. : that of

deep respect for his sterling character, and
intense admiration for his marvellous courage
and resource. And the stranger who, even
at this remote distance of time, should chance

to visit that neglected place, --a veritable
 " deserted village," --and engage its oldest

 inhabitants in a conversation about the

 lighthouse builders who, nearly half a
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  63

 century ago, sojourned for too brief a period
 in their midst, would promptly receive
abundant confirmation of the truth of the

foregoing statements.

    The Wolf, -- or, as it was formerly called,
the " Gulf," --rock, situated between the
Land's End and the Scilly Isles, in deep

water and exposed to the full force of the
Atlantic, had long been a terror to mariners.
There had stood on the rock, since 1840,

a beacon which was erected under the

supervision of Mr. John Thorburn, acting
for Mr. Walker ; and, as an indication of
the difficulty of executing work at the site,

it may be mentioned that this structure,
which was a mere day mark, took five years

to build, --only three hundred and two and

a half hours, altogether, being worked on

the rock during that time,--and cost over
,£11,000. The Corporation of Trinity

House had, however, long felt that such

a dangerous spot required lighting, and,
in the autumn of 1 861, as already mentioned,

set about that important undertaking, the
design for the proposed tower being,
of course, furnished by Mr. Walker.

   The workyard, -- situated as aforesaid at
64 Life of

Penzance, -- was seventeen miles from the

Wolf, a distance not so great as Solva from the
Smalls ; but then the rock itself, in the former

case, is exposed to far heavier seas, and is
submerged during half the tide in all weathers.

The steam tug and barges that had been
employed at the Smalls were used at this work,
but a more suitable tender than the " Buoy
Yacht," viz. : a schooner of one hundred
tons register, was specially built and fitted
up as a barrack for the executive staff
when afloat. On the 17th of March 1862,
 Mr. Douglass and his working party got

 upon the rock, and commenced the necessary
 excavations for the foundations of the

 building, and on the 29th of September
 the last landing for the season was effected.
 Between those dates, only twenty - two

 landings altogether, representing eighty-
 three hours of work, were possible, which
 fact sufficiently shows the onerous nature
 of the project which Mr. Douglass had
 commenced, but was destined not to finish ;

 for, soon after the close of the first season's

 operations, an event occurred which com
 pletely altered the course of his life, viz :

 the unexpected death, in October 1862, of
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  65

Mr. Walker. The firm of which this eminent

man was the head, whose offices were in

Great George Street, Westminster, had

long been carried on under the style of
Walker, Burges & Cooper. The decease of

Mr. James Cooper, the junior partner, whose
great abilities had, for some time, been

specially directed to the lighthouse branch of

the business, had, however, preceded by a

few months that of Mr. Walker, under

circumstances of even a more sudden and

touching nature. Mr. Cooper, who was

unmarried, had attended church as usual,

with his sister, one Sunday morning in

March, and, having dined early, was sitting

with his father in the drawing room, where

they both fell into a doze.  When a

servant came in to say that tea was ready,

the father woke, but the son could not

be roused, --for he had died in his sleep.

Mr. Burges was now, therefore, the only

surviving representative of the firm, was in

advanced years, wealthy, and disposed rather

to rid himself of responsibilities than assume

fresh ones. Mr. Douglass was, consequently,

selected by the Corporation of Trinity
House to be their chief engineer, -- his
66 Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.

brother William, who had just completed the

erection of a lighthouse on the Hanois rock,

off Guernsey, succeeding him at the Wolf.

   It was remarkable, and altogether unlooked
for, --this conjunction of circumstances to

which Mr. Douglass owed his promotion.

But why was he enabled to profit by it ?

Because he had prepared himself, by previous

study and every other available means, for

any such contingency that might arise.

           is,
                          a

                                         a
                                                           is
And his case after all, quite typical one.

The difference, as        rule, between a
" successful " and an " unsuccessful " man
this, that.when there arrives in their " affairs "
that lucky "tide" which comes to most

persons, the former has, by dint of foresight

and effort, already got his boat well and

carefully  built,  ready  to embark at   the right
moment     upon    the "  flood " which  leads to
" fortune " whereas the other, who has been
           ;

                      if
dreaming while his rival has been working,

has still only a magnificent scheme of the

thing in his head, indeed he has got as far

as that. "Chance," says a French author,

"generally favours the prudent."
                 CHAPTER VII.

Pass1ng through Trinity Square, City,
after a visit, perhaps, to the Tower or the

Mint, the stranger in London observes,

situated on the northern eminence of the

square, and forming almost one entire

side of  is it,  a long, low handsome Classical

building in Portland stone.                       has a
                               is
railed-in courtyard in front,
                                    It

                                                                         ;
                               approached

through carriage-gates on either side

and altogether wears an aspect of importance

which            likely to excite the stranger's

curiosity. On making enquiry of a passer-by,

he probably learns that the edifice known
                         ;

                                  if

                                              is
as the Trinity House and, this name

conveys to his mind no definite idea as to

the purposes for which the establishment

exists, a peep into the spacious hall of

the building would, at once, afford him a

general notion, at least, on the subject

For, disposed on either hand, he would

see models, in glass cases, of lighthouses,

light-vessels, buoys and beacons, and would

gather that      it      with these important matters
                     is
68 Life of

that the Trinity House has to do.
                    is ;           when
                                        is

                                             If,

                                                                                             ;
he has returned to his hotel, he should refer

to the official pages of the London Directory,

he would find, under the head of " Trinity
House," that the Duke of York the Master

of this organisation that Captain George

Rawlinson Vyvyan    the Deputy Master

that the Prince of Wales, the Marquess of

Salisbury, Lord Rosebery, Mr. Goschen,

and several other eminent men, are enrolled

among its "Elder Brethren," and that its

official staff  is  a numerous one. Should

the stranger feel still further curiosity on

the subject, and desire to be enlightened as

to the origin, constitution, history and labours

of the Trinity House, he would have to

consult a great many authorities, and should

especially study the multifarious evidence,

published in 1861, by the Royal Commission

on lights, buoys, and beacons but, he
                    ;

                              if

be not terribly in earnest in the matter, he

may, perhaps, be satisfied with such

information as the following pages contain.

The Honourable Corporation of Trinity

House, or, to use the words of its

original charter, "The Guild, Fraternity,

or Brotherhood of the most glorious and
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  69

undivided Trinity," dates its existence

back to the reign of Henry VII., though

its functions then related only to the

pilotage of ships. Subsequently, --in the

reign of Henry VIII.,--the association was

incorporated by royal charter, which was

confirmed and modified by Edward VI.,

Mary, Elizabeth, and James I. The charter
of James I. settled the Corporation as it
is now. This charter was, however, dissolved
in 1647, but was renewed in the reign of

Charles II. It is to this renewal that

Samuel Pepys, who was then a Younger
Brother, and afterwards Master, of the

Trinity House, thus alludes, in his famous
diary, under date January 2nd, 1660-61 :
"This day I left Sir W. Batten and
Captain Rider my chine of beef for to
serve to-morrow at Trinity House, the
Duke of Albemarle being to be there, and

all the Brethren, it being a great day for
the reading of their new charter, which

the King has recently given them."

    Pepys, by the way, seems to have enjoyed

immensely his connection with the Trinity

House, and one frequently meets, in his
diary, with most laudatory accounts of the
JO Life of

good fellowship, and the good cheer, to which
that connection introduced him. The charter

of Charles II. was surrendered to, and

renewed by, his successor in 1685.

   The Corporation of Trinity House has

now the superintendence and management
of all lighthouses, light-vessels, buoys, and
beacons in England, Wales, the Channel
Islands, and Gibraltar, except such as are
under local authorities, over whom, however,

the Corporation possesses jurisdiction. It

also exercises control over the two other

great British Lighthouse Boards, viz., the
Commissioners of Northern Lights (Scotch)

and the Commissioners of Irish Lights. It

is further entrusted with the licensing and
supervision of pilots ; and is required, by
the terms of its charter, to assist the judge
of the High Court of Admiralty in cases
where nautical experience is needed ; two
of the Elder Brethren attending the Court
for each such case. The revenue for main

taining the coast-marking system of the
 British Isles is derived from the taxation of

shipping entering and leaving our ports, the

receipts of the Trinity House from this source

averaging nearly half a million pounds
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  yr

sterling per annum. The dues are carried
to a fund called the " General Lighthouse
Fund," under the management and control
of the Board of Trade, to which department
the three Lighthouse Authorities are
responsible for their expenditure. The

charges for light dues are fixed at the

minimum rates, consistent with obtaining a
sufficient income for the maintenance of the

coast-marking system, and are paid by each
vessel to the collector of customs at the port
of arrival or departure.

   In addition to the public functions which
the Corporation of Trinity House discharges,

it occupies an important position as one of the
most ancient and dignified of the old

City guilds,--in this respect, of course,

owning no allegiance to the Board of Trade.
Its private revenue is derived from bequests
of individual Elder Brethren, and from
other sources of income which the Govern

ment would be powerless to control, even

were the Corporation to cease to exist as
the chief custodians of our lighthouses ; and

this revenue it largely employs for charitable
purposes connected with the mercantile

marine.
72 Life of

Its working Board consists of the Deputy

Master and twelve other Elder Brethren,

composed of retired commanders in the

royal navy and merchant service, --the

distinguished names previously enumerated

being, with the exception of the Deputy

Master, those of its non-active members

merely, -- and the position of a working Elder

Brother is one which is much coveted by

such commanders, being a post of dignity,

honour, and usefulness. One of the best

known of the active Elder Brethren at

the present dateit          perhaps, Admiral Sir

Leopold M'Clintock, K.C.B., F.R.S., who,;

about the time that Mr. Douglass was occupiedis,

in setting the lower courses of the Smalls

lighthouse, was, as commander of the
" Fox " arctic expedition, engaged in those

gallant achievements which resulted in the

discovery of the fate of Sir John Franklin.
The Board meets at least weekly, but

committees of     sit almost daily, for the

transaction of the special duties with which

they are entrusted and periodical inspections,

in the Trinity House steam vessels,

are made by the Elder Brethren of all the

lights &c. under their control.
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  73

    Recurring, however, to the subject of the
edifice itself, it should be stated that, if the

imagined visitor to the Trinity House be

fortunate enough to have with him, on the

occasion which has been assumed, a letter

of introduction to its courteous secretary,
Mr. Charles A. Kent, and be allowed to walk

through the court room, the library, and
other parts of the building, he would find
much else to interest him. He would see

more models, not only of lighthouses and

other structures, but of ships of war, together

with ancient books and manuscripts ; and oil

paintings, by well-known artists, of those who

have served as Master of the Corporation,

among the most recent of whom

(prior to    the Duke of York) have
been King    William IV., the Duke of
Wellington,   the Prince Consort, Lord

Palmerston and the Duke of Edinburgh ;
as well as portraits, by Sir Godfrey Kneller,
Sir Joshua Reynolds, Sir Martin Shee,
Sir W. Beechey, G. F. Watts and Frank

Holl, -- together with marble busts, -- of

other celebrated people who have, at

different times, been connected with this

ancient institution.
                 CHAPTER VIII.

To the building described in the last chapter

it was, then, that Mr. Douglass came from
Penzance to pass the remainder of his official
life; and here, in the early part of 1863,
he entered upon his new duties with his
characteristic zeal and energy. There was
abundant scope for the exercise of those
qualities. First, his department had to be

organized, for there had never before been

an engineer attached to the official staff at

the Trinity House ; then there was the
Wolf lighthouse, of which he had now

assumed the supreme control, to occupy his
thought and attention ; while many other
works of minor, but still considerable,

importance were designed and, during the
next few years, successfully carried out by

him, such undertakings as the construction
of new lighthouses at Winterton, Portland,
Usk, Lowestoftness and St. Bees, besides

extensive alterations and improvements to
the lighthouses at Europa Point (Gibraltar)
Orford, Flatholm, St. Ann's (Milford) and
Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass. 75

other stations. A heavy task, moreover,

was the establishment of engineering work

shops at the Trinity Wharf, Blackwall.
Previously most of the repairs to the plant,
apparatus and machinery of the English

lighthouse service had been executed by

private firms; but, in 1869, the Corporation,

acting under their engineer's advice,

determined, in the interest of efficiency

and economy, to put an end to this system,

and thenceforth arrange to do such work

with their own staff and appliances, --a

project which was promptly and successfully

initiated. These workshops, which were

fortunate in having as their superintendent,

for twenty years, a highly ingenious and

capable mechanical engineer in the person

of Mr. G. H. Slight, are now a very

important branch of the Trinity House

service. In them the repairs to the

machinery and apparatus of lighthouses,

light vessels,  trfaoignedsigmnaelcsh, anbiucosysa,re&kce,pt,a--re

effected; and

about one hundred and fifty men altogether

are employed, --for despatching, literally at an

hour's notice, to out-stations, in the frequent

event of such experts being required for
76 Life of

remedying defects in lamps, burners, fog

signal machinery, &c. Oil gas is, also,

made at the workshops for maintaining the
system of illuminated buoys and automatic
lighthouses ; and, with the staff and
appliances of this establishment, are con
ducted, from time to time, elaborate and

exhaustive experiments, to which, in the
past, many important improvements in the
various branches of the service have been

due.

   By the end of 1869 the Wolf lighthouse

was rapidly approaching completion. To

show the difficult nature of this enterprise,
so successfully carried out by Mr. William
Douglass, it may be stated, --at such rare
intervals, and for so few hours at any one
time, could operations be conducted on the
rock, --that it was not until the end of three
years, from the commencement of the work,
that the foundation pit could be got ready
and the first stone laid, --the granite, by the
way, was Cornish, and dressed in the
workyard, --after which the construction of

the building occupied another five years.
" The insecurity of the foothold," his brother
James once explained, "and the constant
                                                Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                        77

'                                               breaking of surf over rendered great pre
                 ;                              caution necessary for the safety of the
                                                workmen. Heavy iron stanchions were sunk
                                          it,   into the rock around the site for the foundation,

                                              itand each man worked with a safety-rope lying
                                                near him, one end of which was attached to
                                                the nearest stanchion. An experienced man

                                                was always stationed on the summit, as
                                                 crow,' to look out for the sea, who would

                                                give warning of such waves as were likely
                                                to sweep the rock, when the men would hold
                                                on, head to the sea, while washed over

                                                them picks, hammers and jumpers, some
                                                exceeding 20 lbs. in weight, were frequently

                                                found to have been washed away, when the

                                                waves had passed and were followed by a
                                                lull."

                                                   The Wolf light had been arranged to be

                                                revolving dioptric of the first order, showing
                                                alternate flashes of red and white every half
                                                minute and, as the question of the loss in

                                                the red beams by passing through coloured

                                                medium had not previously been determined
                                                with sufficient accuracy, Professor Tyndall,

                                                who was then scientific adviser to the Trinity

                                                 House, investigated the subject with all

                                                the care and thoroughness which were
                                                ;

                                                                                                 a
78 Life of

characteristic of that distinguished man's

methods in whatever he undertook, accom

panying Mr. Douglass to several lighthouses

to make observations on the question, and

witnessing, at Charlton,  Wexhpaerrf,imBenlatcakl waligll,h--ts

shown from the Trinity

a distance of two miles. As the result of

these measures, the correct relative quantities

of light were appropriated to the red and

white beams respectively, so that they should

all possess the same penetrative power. The

colour, it may be stated, is produced by ruby

glass placed in front of the panels of the

optical apparatus, and revolving with the

latter. The new light had been advertised

to be shown on, and after, the 1st of January

1870, and the skilled mechanics of Messrs.

Chance Brothers & Co. had been engaged

at the Wolf for a considerable time fitting

up the elaborate system of refractors and

prisms which had been manufactured by that

firm ; but, in consequence of the prevalence

of rough weather, the 1st of January had

nearly arrived, without the light keepers

having been landed on the rock, or certain

other necessary final arrangements made,

with a view to the all-important event.
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  79

Mr. William Douglass had permanently left
the Wolf works during the previous month,
to commence, in another part of the world, a

similar undertaking, which will presently be

described, his place, as resident engineer,

having been taken by Mr. Michael Beazeley,
the younger of two clever and accom

plished brothers, -- the elder of whom was
Alexander, --who had for several years been
attached to the engineering staff of the
Trinity House. Mr. Michael Beazeley had

been anxiously on the look-out, day after
day, for a chance of getting off to the rock,

but none occurred until the morning of the
25th of December 1869, when, the weather
having somewhat moderated, Mr. Douglass,
who had come to Penzance from London,

determined to make a desperate effort to

effect a landing. The "Solva" tug, therefore,

early on Christmas Day, proceeded from the

former place to the Wolf; and Mr. Douglass,
Mr. Beazeley, and the three light keepers,

got safely on to the rock, where the two

engineers had many detailed arrangements
to make; but, by the time these were

completed, a northerly gale had sprung up,
and the old familiar process of embarking,
80 Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.       it it,

by being dragged through the surf with a
rope around the waist, had to be resorted
to; the men, Mr. Beazeley, and lastly
Mt. Douglass, having all to undergo this
ordeal, which, with the subsequent exposure

in an open boat before the tug could be
boarded, at such a season of the year, was
certainly not a little trying. However, the
affair was laughed off by those concerned in

especially when they were comfortably settled

in the warm engine room of the "Solva"

steamer, which latter, amid the cheers of the

party on the rock, then started for Penzance.
So ends this too brief account of the building

of the Wolf rock lighthouse, except that

should be stated that the cost of the entire

undertaking was about .£63,000, and that

the authorities of the Trinity House made

their engineer a handsome presentation " as
a memorial of his skill and energy in
connection with this great work, and as a
token of the high regard and esteem " which
the Elder Brethren entertained towards him.
                CHAPTER IX.

For many years before any practical measures

were taken in the matter, the necessity for

a lighthouse on the Great Basses reef,

situated about eighty miles eastward of
Point de Galle, was generally recognised
by those who were conversant with the
dangers of that locality ; and, in 1856,
operations, initiated by the Board of Trade,
who have jurisdiction over the lighthouses

of Ceylon, were commenced, with a view
to the erection, on the reef, of an iron tower

supported by a granite base, the structure
being the design of a now deceased engineer

of considerable eminence, and, --though not

connected permanently with the lighthouse

service, --of special experience in the carrying
out of such projects. The granite base, iron

tower, lantern, and illuminating apparatus
were prepared in England, and delivered
and stored at Galle, where the shore depot
in connection with the works was situated ;

but, after three years, only a few landings

 had been effected on the rock, and a
82 Life of

beacon-mast, -- a mere day mark, -- con
structed thereon. Up to this time about

,£4.0,000 had been expended on the enterprise,
and it was estimated that .£20,000 per
annum for five years would still be required

to complete the structure. The works were

thereupon suspended by the authorities, who

were not unreasonably alarmed at the
magnitude of the scheme, and the matter
remained in abeyance for some years. But,
in 1867, the Board of Trade revived the

proposal, and referred the whole question
for the consideration and advice of the

Corporation of Trinity House, who placed

the matter in the efficient hands of their

own engineer, after which all difficulties

in regard to it disappeared, --so far, at

least, as the authorities were concerned.
The design prepared by Mr. Douglass
was for a granite structure, in which
the base of the lighthouse previously
proposed was utilized, his scheme further
providing for a light-vessel being moored
off the rock, for exhibiting a red revolving

light every night during the progress of

the new work, and also serving as a barrack

for the executive engineer and staff. The
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  83

idea of the barrack light-vessel was a
particularly happy one, as it not only
admitted of the workmen being accommodated
on board while the tower was under construc

tion, but guarded the dangers of the reef,
besides enabling the Government to collect
a toll for the light, during the whole period
that the structure on the rock was being
proceeded with. But, indeed, the entire

scheme, -- not this feature of it merely, --was
conceived in a masterly manner. The Board
of Trade having, in due time, approved
these proposals, and requested the Trinity

House to undertake the work, which the
latter body agreed to do, Mr. William

Douglass was selected to proceed to Ceylon,

as executive engineer, so soon as the necessary
preliminary measures in connection with the
scheme were completed in this country, by
which time, also, it was expected that his

work at the Wolf would be practically
finished. Two iron twin-screw steam vessels

and the light vessel, all specially designed,
were put in hand, also the granite

blocks for the tower, -- which stones

were both quarried and dressed at Dalbeattie,

Scotland, --and the internal fittings, lantern
84 Life of

and optical apparatus. The two steam
vessels, each capable of carrying one
hundred and twenty tons of cargo, at a
speed of ten knots per hour, were fitted
with the requisite appliances for hoisting
and stowing the stones on board, hoisting

them again to the deck, and from thence

to the rock. Mr. William Douglass states
that " the arrangement was very successful,

and tended considerably to expedite the

completion of the work. Although it was
necessary, owing to the shallow water, to

moor the steamers, when laden, at a distance

of thirty fathoms from the rock, stones
weighing on an average two and a half tons
were hoisted out of the hold, landed, and

deposited twenty-eight feet above the rock,
at the rate of ten per hour."

   Mr. William Douglass arrived at Galle
in December 1869, and on the 27th of that

month made an attempt to reach the Basses
in a small sailing vessel, but accomplished

only one third of the distance in eight days,
owing to head winds and an adverse current.
He, therefore, returned to Galle to await
the arrival from England of one of the two
steamers, and on the 5th of March left with
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  85

her for the Great Basses, where he landed

on the 7th. The first stone of the tower
was laid on the 28th of December 1870,

and, by the end of the working season,

viz. : the north-east monsoon from April
to November, of 1872 the masonry was
completed, the light, -- dioptric of the first
order, emitting red flashes at intervals of
forty-five seconds, --being exhibited in March
 1873. This important work, so efficiently

carried out in a tropical climate, seven

thousand miles from their country, by a
small number of Europeans, assisted by
natives, was executed for the very moderate
sum of ,£62,000, an amount which, in a

very short time after the completion of the

undertaking, was saved in coal alone by
passing steamers, in consequence of their

voyages having been shortened by the
lighting of what was formerly so dangerous

a spot.

    The successful construction of this tower
caused the Board of Trade to decide on

proceeding with the erection of a similar
one upon the Little Basses reef, which
also stood in urgent need of lighting, where

upon they requested the Trinity House to
86 Life of

undertake the carrying out of this project
likewise, in which course the Elder Brethren

readily acquiesced. A design was then

furnished by Mr. Douglass for this second
structure, which was erected by his brother
with the same staff, vessels and plant that
had been employed at the Great Basses,
and generally in a similar manner. This
work was of even greater difficulty than
the previous one, the Little Basses reef
being twenty miles farther from Galle than
the Great Basses, and awash only at low

water ; but precisely the same satisfactory
results attended its execution. The lighthouse
was completed in the early part of 1878,
and illuminated, in March of that year, by
a first order dioptric apparatus, showing

two white flashes in quick succession every
minute, the entire cost of the undertaking

being about .£88,500.
    Thus, both these fine granite towers were

erected and lighted at an aggregate expendi
ture very little in excess of the estimate for the
iron building for the Great Basses alone,

an estimate which, judgingfrom the practically
 negative result of the three years' operations
 at the latter site, in connection with that
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  87

structure, would probably have been exceeded

before the edifice, --an unsuitable one, by
the way, for such a position, --was ever

completed ; a fact which demonstrates, more

forcibly than any words could do, the
pre-eminent fitness of the brothers Douglass
for enterprises of this nature.

    On the termination of his duties in
Ceylon, Mr. William Douglass was appointed
engineer-in-chief to the Commissioners of
Irish Lights, in which position he has
abundantly fulfilled the high expectations
that had been formed of him, and is now

closing his long and distinguished career by

erecting a granite tower upon the dangerous
Fastnet rock, off the coast of Cork, to super

sede the present unsatisfactory building,
of cast iron and brickwork. With a

special view to this project, his services

have been retained much beyond the usual

age limit for the retirement of public

officials.

   It is now necessary, however, to go back
a few years. Mr. Beazeley who, as the

reader has been informed, succeeded

Mr. William Douglass as resident engineer
at the Wolf rock lighthouse, not only
88 Life of

completed the interior arrangements of

that structure, and whatever else remained

unfinished at the time of the exhibition of

its light, but was entrusted with the erection

of a new granite tower upon the Longships
rock, situated about a mile westward of

the Land's End, as visitors to the latter

interesting and picturesque spot know full well.

There was already standing on the Longships

a lighthouse, which was built in 1795 ;
but its lantern, at an elevation of only

seventy-nine feet above high water of spring

tides, was frequently enveloped in heavy

seas, at which times the character of the

light could not be accurately determined,

and it was not deemed prudent to raise the

old tower a sufficient height to counteract

this disadvantage.  Mr. Douglass was,

therefore, instructed by his Board to prepare

a design and estimate, which were duly

approved, for a new and more massive

lighthouse to supersede the then existing

one ; and the erection of this superior
structure,-- the granite of which was supplied

partly from local quarries, and partly from

Dinan, France, -- proceeded vigorously

between the years 1870 and 1873, the same
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  89

vessels, plant, &c, that had been employed
in the Wolf work being generally utilized
here. The tower was completed, and the

new light shown, in December 1873, the
illuminating apparatus being dioptric of the

first order, showing a fixed light, and marking
by red sectors the adjacent dangers of the
Runnelstone and Brissons rocks. The cost

of the undertaking was .£43,870.
    During the time that the Wolf, the Basses

and the Longships towers were being
proceeded with, the following shore, or
island, works were also carried out, from

the designs, and under the direction,
of Mr. Douglass, viz. : new lighthouses at
Great Castle Head, Souter Point (for
electricity), Hurst, Lowestoft, Hartland
Point, St. Tudwal, and Bull Point ; new

fog signal stations at St. Catherine's, South
Stack, Skerries, St. Ann's (Milford), Long-
stone, Start, and Bardsey ; and extensive
alterations and additions at South Foreland
and Lizard (both for electricity), Haisboro',
Caldy, Holyhead Breakwater, Flamboro',

Longstone, Bardsey, Heligoland, Dungeness,
and Caskets ; as well as new district store

houses at Yarmouth and Holyhead.
                     CHAPTER X.

In August 1877, Mr. Douglass startled the

members of the mechanical section of the

British Association, then assembled at

Plymouth, by the statement that Smeaton's
famous lighthouse was doomed, inconsequence
of the portion of the rock on which it was

founded having been seriously undermined
by the sea, and that a new structure would
soon have to be erected to replace it. The
members were startled, but they were also
saddened ; and Mr. Edward Woods, the

president of the section, only expressed what
was felt by all who were present, when he
eloquently said that it was not without

the deepest regret and concern that they
had heard the announcement which had

been made. The Eddystone lighthouse was
the glory of Smeaton, and the glory of
their profession itself, and, he might add,
the glory of Plymouth. They had hoped,

and believed, that the splendid structure
would endure throughout all time ; but
alas ! it was, unfortunately, to become an

emblem of the perishing nature of earthly
things. So arrangements were commenced,
Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass.     91

as early as practicable, for the erection,

upon another and firmer part of the rocks,

viz. : about one hundred and twenty feet

from Smeaton's building, of the fourth and

present Eddystone lighthouse. As a
preliminary, however, to a description, --

which, considering the importance, historically

and otherwise, of     the  subject, must be rather
                      the  latest and most effective
detailed, --of this,

example of a rock tower, a short account of

the three former structures that stood upon

the famous reef, and of their respective

builders, familiar as the story may be to

the reader, is essential to the completeness

of this narrative.

The first lighthouse erected on the

Eddystone rocks       was designed by    "Hgeennrt,y"
Winstanley, who       is described as a

of Littlebury, in Essex. He had "dis
tinguished himself," says Smeaton, " in a

certain branch of mechanics, the tendency

of which is to raise wonder and surprise,"

which statement is amply borne out by the
following account of the "set of contrivances "

which this ingenious practical joker had in

his house at Littlebury. In one room there

lay an old slipper, apparently left heedlessly
92 Life of

it,
                                          it

                                                 If,
in the middle of the floor.                           as was

natural, the visitor gave a kick, up would

start a ghost. There was a chair, so

arranged that, when any one sat down in

    a couple of arms would pinion the person,
and hold him in " durance vile " until the

attendant came to his rescue. But the

cruellest joke of all was the following. If

the visitor seated himself in a certain arbour

by the side of the canal, he was forthwith

sent out afloat into the middle of the water,

whence he had to be restored to his former

place by the manager of this sensational

performance. At Hyde Park Corner were

situated what were called " Winstanley's

Waterworks," an account of which exhibition
will be found in the " Tatler " of September

1709. Winstanley's lighthouse was com

menced in 1696, and completed in 1699.
was never well adapted for so exposed a
                                   It
position as the Eddy stone rocks.             It
                                                      has been
humorously described as resembling " a

Chinese pagoda or belvedere in some

suburban tea-gardens," its numerous angles

and projections furnishing a gratuitous and

dangerous obstruction to the winds and

waves. Consequently, the structure was
Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.  93

it,swept away by the historic storm of the;
26th of November 1703. Winstanley was
in the lighthouse at the time, with a company's
of workmen, executing repairs. He had
         :
often said,-- such was his confidence in the
stability of his building, --that nothingif

would please him better than to be in itis
during " the greatest storm that ever blew
under the face of the heavens." And, un

fortunately, his wish was gratified, though with

different results from what he had anticipated ;
for the brave man, his assistants, and the

light keepers, all perished in the hurricane.

It was noticed as a remarkable coincidence

that, at the time the house was demolished,

the model of in Winstanley residence
at Littlebury, two hundred miles away, fell
down and was broken in pieces upon which

event Smeaton makes the following shrewd
common-sense observation " This, however,

may not appear extraordinary we consider
that the same general wind that blew down
the lighthouse, near Plymouth, might blow
down the model at Littlebury."

    The second Eddystone lighthouse was
designed by John Rudyerd, a silk mercer of
Ludgate Hill. There no other record of
94 Life of

any mechanical achievement of his ; yet, as
Smeaton pronounces, the building was
admirably conceived. " He seems," Smeaton
adds, " to have adopted ideas the very
reverse of his predecessor ; for all the

unwieldy ornaments at top, the open gallery,
the projecting cranes, and other contrivances,
more for ornament and pleasure than use,
Mr. Rudyerd laid totally aside ; he saw that,
how beautiful soever ornaments might be in

themselves, yet when they are improperly

applied and out oi place, by affecting to show
a taste, they betray ignorance of its first

principle, judgment ; for whatever deviates
from propriety is erroneous, and at best
insipid." The lighthouse was commenced in
1 706, completed in 1 709, and stood until 1 755,
when it was destroyed by fire, much of the
material of the structure having been of an

inflammable nature. It was in connection

with this sad event that the extraordinary

incident occurred of a man, Henry Hall,

aged ninety-four, surviving twelve days
after swallowing, from the burning building,
a quantity of molten lead which, when
taken out of his stomach, was found to

weigh seven ounces five drachms. " As
Sir Janus Nicholas Douglass.  95

the man,"     says Smeaton,   in relating this
story, " was  looking upward  with the utmost

attention, to see the direction and success of

the water thrown, on which occasion, as

physiognomists tell us, the mouth is naturally

a little open, a quantity of lead, dissolved by

the heat of the flames, suddenly rushed like

a torrent from the roof," and fell upon his
face and head. He was attended by Dr.

Spry, of Plymouth, who could not believe,
though the sufferer so asserted, " in a very

hoarse voice," that the lead had really been

swallowed ; but, after the man's death, that

fact was proved. Many people, however,

continued to doubt the possibility of such

a thing ; whereupon Dr. Spry, deeming his

reputation at stake, made experiments by

pouring from six drachms to six ounces of
melted lead down the throats of dogs and

fowls, and found that "those animals

survived the operation till they were killed

to extract the lead." Then, says the
narrator, Dr. Spry fell under a censure of

a different kind, "that of cruelty towards

the animals, in trying the experiments

mentioned."

The third, and most famous, Eddystone
g6 Life of

lighthouse was that of Smeaton. This truly

great man was by profession a philosophical-
instrument maker. He had distinguished

himself, however, by the ingenuity of many

of his mechanical inventions and improve

ments communicated to the Royal Society,

of which body he had been elected a member

in 1753. Upon the President of that Society,

the Earl of Macclesfield, being applied to,
by the proprietors of the Eddystone, to

recommend a suitable architect to rebuild

the lighthouse, Smeaton was nominated for
the work. And, surely, the choice was

nothing less than an inspired one. Smeaton's

structure was commenced in 1756, completed

in 1759, and removed in 1882, having stood

one hundred and twenty-three years. A

literally truthful motto for this tower, had
the " Lady of the Lake " been written, to

         in Smeaton's time, would have
suggest  it,

been the familiar passage which Scott, in                  !

that beautiful poem, puts into the mouth of

Fitz-James (the reader must imagine the
lighthouse uttering words of defiance to the

angry billows)

" Come one, come all this rock shall fly
  From its firm base as soon as I."
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  97

It has been explained that the rock did

actually give way before the tower. But,
though that inscription would not have been
inapt, a far more appropriate one commended
itself to Smeaton's simple, pious nature ; and,
inside the upper store-room of his building,
was cut with a chisel the following text :

" Except the Lord build the house, they

labour in vain that build it," which same

inscription, it may be mentioned, has been
graven on the internal face of the new tower.

    Coming now to the Douglass "Eddystone,"
it should be stated that the decision of the

Trinity House to replace the magnificent

work of that father of the modern race of

civil engineers, John Smeaton, was, as might
have been expected, not arrived at until

every practical expedient had been vainly
tried for rendering the building secure. The
whole of the upper part of the tower, from
the lantern floor down to the solid portion of
the masonry, had been strengthened by
internal iron ties ; the outer joints of the
stones had been re-pointed with Portland
cement ; many of the courses had been
re-bolted ; and the projection of the cornice,
upon which the upward stroke of the waves
98 Life of

was found to act, had been reduced five

inches ; but all these measures were
ineffectual to ensure the stability of the

building, which, during heavy storms from

the west and west-south-west, continued to

oscillate to an alarming extent.

   At this juncture came a proposal, emanating

from a private source, but received with

favour by a section of the public, that,

instead of a new tower being erected upon

the Eddystone rocks, the rocks themselves

should be blown away. The proposal was
thus tersely stated by its author : " The

raison d'itre of the light
a                                                       no doubt, the
                                                   is,
reef; why not remove the reef?" And this

alternative plan actually came before the
consideration of Parliament. Putting aside,

however,   the immense  thaetxpceonnsteemaptlatetendd,in--g
such an   operation as

an expense estimated as seven times greater
than that of building a new lighthouse, for
two million tons of rock would have had to

be removed, --the authorities of the Trinity

House contended that the suggestion was

gravely unpractical, the value to shipping of

guiding and warning light in such a

position being, they held, incalculably great,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  99

beyond that of merely marking a particular

danger.

    The Eddystone rocks are chiefly composed
of three nearly parallel gneiss reefs of from
three hundred to six hundred feet long,
situated from one hundred to one hundred

and fifty feet apart. They lie, almost north

and south, fourteen miles to the south-south

west of Plymouth, and about nine miles from
Rame Head, which is the nearest point of
land. The rocks are exposed to the heavy
seas of the Bay of Biscay and the Atlantic
Ocean ; and, until the erection of Winstanley's
lighthouse in 1699, were a source of great
danger to the mariner, " many a good ship,"
to use the words of Daniel Defoe, " having
been lost there in former times." The reef

upon which Smeaton's lighthouse stood was
the westernmost one. That upon which the

present tower was erected is the middle one.

The site of the Douglass lighthouse lies
considerably lower than that of Smeaton's
building, the foundation of the latter structure
having been laid near the level of high water,
whereas the foundation of the present one
was laid below the level of low water.
                                                       '

                    CHAPTER XI.

The Corporation of Trinity House had not,

for some years past, made any addition, in
this country, to that " small number of man's
extreme outposts in the ocean," as Robert
Louis Stevenson characteristically describes

our rock towers, -- Stevenson who, himself, as

is well known, had been trained to follow his
eminent father in the erection of lighthouses,
before, as a writer of books, he began to
construct more lasting memorials of his
genius. Hence, there was not available for
acting as resident engineer at the Eddystone
an officer having precisely the requisite
experience for the purpose. The difficulty
was, therefore, met in the following manner.
Mr. Thomas Edmond (by trade a builder)
who had, for a considerable time, been
employed under Mr. Douglass in the con
struction of shore and island lighthouse
works, several of which had been very
efficiently carried out without a contractor,
and who was a daring and energetic man,
was appointed superintendent in charge;
       Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass. 101

Mr. William Tregarthen Douglass, the eldest

surviving son, and then recent pupil, of the

engineer-in-chief, was deputed to act on

the work as the special representative of

his father ; while Mr. Douglass himself

undertook to give every detail of the rock

operations his close personal attention, and

in fact, by very frequent visits to Plymouth

and the Eddystone, himself to fill, to a
       extent, the office  of resident engineer,
large                      had already shown
until  his son, --who
great promise, --should prove sufficiently

experienced to occupy that position, which

he fully did by the time the external

masonry of the tower was completed, when

Mr. Edmond's services were utilized else

where. These arrangements look somewhat

complicated on paper ; but no better seemed

possible at the time ; and, that they worked

extremely well in practice, will appear later

on, when it is seen how expeditiously,

economically, and in every way satisfactorily,

the entire undertaking was carried out.

   The shore dep6t was established at
Oreston, on the river Laira, Plymouth ; and

one of the two twin-screw steam vessels,

already described in connection with the
102 Life of

works at the Great Basses lighthouse, was

employed for conveying to the rock the
executive staff and the material for the new

tower. What would not Smeaton have

given for such a rapid means of transport !
That versatile engineer himself assisted,

though in this respect he was eclipsed by

Watt, in perfecting the "Newcomen" engine ;

but the great lighthouse-builder had been

dFeualtdonf'isfteebnoayt,eartshebef"orCeler(minon1t8,"07)   Robert

                                                           steamed

successfully up the Hudson. Small sailing
vessels, -- herring boats, or busses as they
were called, -- were, therefore, the best craft

obtainable for conveying the material of

Smeaton's tower from Millbay to the rock,

which vessels were completely at the mercy

of wind and weather, and used to beat

about for days, and sometimes weeks, before

reaching the Eddystone.
   The first landing was effected on the rock

by Mr. Douglass and the executive party on

the 17th of July 1878, and a commencement
made with the preliminary stages of the

work, which consisted in the cutting and

levelling of the rock into benches for

receiving the bottom courses. The founda
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  1 03

 tion of the building being, as already stated,
below the level of low water, it was necessary,

 in the first place, to construct a brick and

 cement cofferdam, inside which the men

 could proceed safely with their boring and
 cutting operations, and eventually with the
 setting of the lower courses, for the brief
three or four hours that constituted a usual

tide's work. In these operations no blasting
was allowed, for fear of shaking the adjoin
ing rock; the whole of the cutting and

levelling being accomplished by tools known
as " jumpers," assisted by a rock-boring drill,
which was worked by compressed air from

the steam vessel. This was the first occasion
of such an appliance as the latter being
employed in the erection of a rock light

house ; and it proved a very useful auxiliary
in this branch of marine engineering, the
work which it is capable of executing being

equivalent to that which can be done by

ten "jumpers," plied by the most brawny
Cornish miners.

   The preparation of the site for receiving
the foundation courses, inclusive of the

construction of the cofferdam, occupied the

workmen about a year, and on the 19th
104 Life of

ostfruAcutugrues, t--1a87b9lotchke  foundation  stone of the
                                    weighing
                                                three and a
quarter tons,--was laid by the Duke of

Edinburgh (Master of the Trinity House)
assisted by the Prince of Wales. Until

December of that year, throughout 1880,

and during the early months of the following

year, the work of building the tower

proceeded apace, so that, by the 1st of June
1 88 1, all was in readiness for the setting of

the last stone, which on that day was laid by
the Duke of Edinburgh, who landed on the

rock for the purpose when passing up

Channel in H.M.S. "Lively." Thus the

whole of the masonry was completed within
the short space of two years.

   With reference to the contour of the

building, this does not essentially differ,
except in one respect, from that of its

predecessor. Modern lighthouse engineers

get their form of rock tower from Smeaton,
because Smeaton got his from Nature, to

which infallible teacher true architects are

ever indebted for the most perfect types of
beauty and strength. The trunk of a large

spreading oak-tree presented itself to the

mind of Smeaton as the natural model of a
           Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  105

column possessing the greatest stability ;

and this form has, ever since, proved the most

suitable for resisting the force of the terrific

waves to which rock lighthouses are exposed.

The new tower, however, unlike Smeaton's

building, has a vertical base, which rises to a

height above low water mark of eighteen feet

nine inches,--at which point the curved
shaft commences, --and has a set off, or

projection, of four feet, the lighthouse

proper thus standing on a cylindrical

pedestal.  Mr. Douglass, previous to

designing his most famous work, had, as he

afterwards explained, given great attention
to " the question of arresting the force of a
large ocean wave on a structure of that

kind," and came to the conclusion that, in

this instance, a vertical base was the proper

form to be adopted ; though, as might have

been expected, such a deviation from what

had hitherto been generally accepted as the

perfection of a rock tower did not escape

criticism ; and Mr. R. H. Brunton, an

authority on lighthouse matters, speaking at

the Institution of Civil Engineers, after the

completion of the Douglass structure, thus
expressed himself on the subject : " It has
106 Life of

been said that the green seas rushed up

Smeaton's tower to the cornice and con
siderably above, and that, in the case of
the present tower, the circular base breaks

the waves, which rush round to the opposite

side. If that be so, it would appear

that the energy expended in projecting

the volume of water, say fifty or a
hundred tons, so many feet into the air,

is now expended directly against the circular

base." In his reply Sir James Douglass,

as he had then become, admitted that the
blow delivered at that point is heavier ; but,

he added, that is precisely where the

it
     is

                 it
                                                                                  :
                                                           it it,
                                                                      is
structure is best able to receive  besides
being the " point of least leverage, and thus

of least destructive effect on the rock-founda

tion below." And Mr. E. C. Allam, in

supporting these views, put the case very

effectively, when he said " To divert the

wave from the solid base where                                                       best
able to withstand the shock, -- to cause the

base, as  were, to shirk the duty which
so well able to perform, --and to send

the wave aloft to strike against the less

solid portion of the tower, seems to me

like the action of a commanding general
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  107

who allows the enemy to break through
the front ranks of his army, where his

veterans are stationed, and fall, almost

unchecked, on the recruits in the rear."

At any rate, experience, so far, has entirely

justified this bold innovation ; and the

vertical base forms, moreover, an admirable

landing place, greatly facilitating the relieving
of keepers, and the placing of stores and

provisions in the lighthouse.
    But, although the form of the Douglass

tower, with the exception of the vertical
base, approximates closely to that of Smeaton's

building, its dimensions greatly exceed those

of the latter structure. The base of Smeaton's

tower was thirty-two feet in diameter, and
its light seventy-two feet above high water,
with a range of visibility of fourteen nautical
miles. Its rooms were four in number,

besides the lantern ; each room being twelve
and a quarter feet in diameter ; and it

contained about thirteen thousand three

hundred and forty-three cubic feet, or nine
hundred and eighty-eight tons, of stone.
The base of the Douglass tower is forty-four
feet in diameter, and its light one hundred
and thirty-three feet above high water,
xo8 Life of

with a range of visibility of seventeen and
a half nautical miles. Its rooms are nine

in number, besides the lantern ; the seven
uppermost being fourteen feet in diameter ;
and it contains about sixty-two thousand
one hundred cubic feet, or four thousand
six hundred and sixty-eight tons, of stone.

   In a building of this enlarged capacity,

it was possible to instal, instead of the com
paratively feeble light which was the utmost
that Smeaton's tower could accommodate,

the powerful biform illuminating apparatus
described on page 54 of this narrative.
Thus the calamity which overtook Smeaton's
noble structure proved, in the end, a blessing
to the maritime community ; and, were its
architect now alive, he would, probably,
feel more than compensated, for any natural
disappointment he might at first have
experienced at seeing his great work become
a thing of the past, by the knowledge that,
in its place, has been reared, though by
another's skill, a building better adapted
than his own to subserve the interests of

that humanity which he so much loved.

   Well wrote Mr. Kenward, --bard no less
than lighthouse expert, -- in the poem
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  109

" Eddy stone " which he printed on the eve
of the completion of the Douglass tower :

   " We build on firmer base, with loftier hope ;
          The granite shell sits broader on the rock ;

      The light will search the sea with larger scope
         And tenfold beam. All mists that veil and mock,

     All winds and tides that baffle, shoals that shock,
          Must yield them to the giant lenses' might,

      Which, drawn from stores the passing hours unlock,

           Instinct with central flame serenely bright,
      Will flash their splendours soon across the waste of

              Night."

   The Douglass lighthouse, like its pre
decessor, is composed of granite, many of
the blocks of which weigh over three
tons each. The tower is solid, with the
exception of a water tank, for twenty-five
and a half feet above high water of spring
tides. At this point the rooms, arranged
one above the other, begin ; the walls of

the lowest being eight and a half feet
thick, and those of the highest two and
a quarter feet thick. The entrance-door,
situated at the top of the solid portion of

the tower, is approached by gunmetal steps,
let into the surfaces of the vertical base

and the lighthouse ; and internal iron ladders
are provided for the ascent from floor to
I IO Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.

floor. The external door and window
frames of all the rooms are of solid
gunmetal, with panels of thick plate-glass,
and some idea of the substantial character
of these fittings will be conveyed when it is

mentioned that the entrance door alone
weighs over a ton.
                   CHAPTER XII.

 The masonry of the new Eddystone tower

 was dressed at Wadebridge, Cornwall, and
 Dalbeattie, Scotland ; and all the stones

composing it were temporarily fitted, or
dry-set, in sections, on a specially prepared
platform in the workyard. When found to
be accurately shaped, the blocks were taken

apart, properly lettered and numbered in

red and black paint on the joints, and
packed ready for transporting to the rock.

   A further comparison between the two

structures, in the mode of dovetailing the

stones together, may here be not unprofitable.

In Smeaton's tower there were six hundred

and thirty-six stone joggles, one thousand
eight hundred oak trenails, four thousand
five hundred and seventy pairs of oak
wedges, eight circular floor chains, and
two hundred and twenty six iron cramps.

In modern rock towers scarcely any such

appliances are now used, though composition
metal bolts, slit and wedged at both ends,
are employed in fastening down the
112 Life of

foundation courses. The present system

of dovetailing the stones one into the other

is, indeed, so complete, and the modern

quick-setting cements possess such an

advantage, for hydraulic work, over the
mixture of blue lias and terro-puzzuolana

limes used for the blocks of Smeaton's

lighthouse, that, except where the courses

come in contact with the rock, no necessity

exists for separate joggling and trenailing.

Smeaton's method of bonding was, like

every other mechanical arrangement which
his skilful mind devised or adapted,

characterised by extreme ingenuity, and

was the first successful application to
masonry of a process which had previously

been almost exclusively confined to carpentry.

In his writings, to which Robert Stephenson

always referred young engineers when they

asked him what they should read, Smeaton

relates minutely, as is his wont, the develop

ment of his mode of dovetailing, from the

first hints he received, by observing the

manner in which the kerbs along the
London foot paths were fixed, to the

elaborate system which                                                         he eventually
" maturated," as he calls                                                      and applied to
r
                                                                            it,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  113

the Eddystone lighthouse. The method

adopted, in the case of the present tower,
as well as in that of every rock light

house erected by the Trinity House
since the "Hanois" (completed in 1862) is
the invention of Mr. Nicholas Douglass.

It consists in having a raised dovetailed

band, three inches in height, on the top

bed and one end joint of each stone. A

corresponding dovetailed recess is cut in

the bottom bed and end joint of the

adjoining stones, with just sufficient clear

ance for the raised band to enter it freely
in setting. The work, when thus put

together and set in Portland cement, is

nearly as homogeneous as     s"oElidddygsrtaonniete."
The engineer of the present

has said of this description of joggling :
" It does not add materially to the cost

of the structure, but it adds immensely to
the reliability of the work, step by step

as it is carried on, and thus facilitates its

construction. I do not know any other

system by which it is possible to set

masonry with such readiness, where exposed

to heavy seas. By the method adopted each

stone is supported, not only by the stone
114 Life of

below, but by the stones that are beside

aand behind so that   can be left,
                             ;
                                            :immediately after setting, with perfect
                         it,
                                acertainty."of theexternal,
                                                itDouglasswas, as
   On the completion
                                                             it itmasonry Mr. W. T.
                                                                         is,
already mentioned, placed in full charge of

the work, which consisted, not only in

completing the internal arrangements of the

tower, and generally preparing for its

illumination, but dismantling the portions of

Smeaton's structure down to the solid part.

These, viz. the lantern and four rooms,

to receive which new granite base had to

be prepared, were afterwards re-erected

on the Hoe at Plymouth, through the

commendable public spirit of the inhabitants

of that place, as a permanent memorial to

Smeaton and a very attractive object

on that beautiful parade. The taking of the

blocks of the building asunder, in so careful

manner as not to injure them for putting

together again, was no easy task, but was

very successfully accomplished by the young

resident engineer, who, however, nearly lost

his life during that process, in April 1882,

as the following letter, written by his
           Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  115

father to the latter's old friend Mr. R. Price-

Williams,    clearly and succinctly  describes.
   " You   have probably ere this
                                     heard of the

accident to my dear boy Willie at the

Eddystone last Monday, and his miraculous
escape from a terrible death. He had taken
down Smeaton's tower to the level of the

lantern gallery, and had a pair of shears

rigged on it for landing the central crane for
taking down and shipping the masonry. On

landing the crane, however, there was some

ground swell, which caused a heavy surge on
the tackle, and the chain back guy of the
shears parted, when Willie was struck by

one of the legs and flung several feet into

the air, and thence fell about seventy feet, as

it was thought at the moment on to the

rocks below, but, most providentially, a wave

rose over the rocks at the very moment, and

he fell on to when fortunately he recovered
            it,

                        I
sufficient consciousness and strength to strike

out and swim ashore. am thankful to state

that not a bone has been broken, and so far

no internal injury appears to have been

sustained.  He has most marvellously

escaped with a few cuts and bruises, which
we hope will be all right again in a few days.
n6 Life of

The doctors recommend him perfect quiet

for a week to recover the shock, therefore I
have taken his place temporarily, which I

am only too thankful to do under the

circumstances."

In connection with Smeaton's lighthouse

on the Hoe, there lately occurred the

following amusing incident, which illustrates

once more the difficulty of writing history,

unless Sir Robert Walpole's dictum that
" history must be false " is to be accepted as
correct. An old resident of Plymouth, a

generally intelligent man, just the kind of

person on whom a chronicler would be likely

to rely for information relative to local

matters, was showing a friend, who was a

stranger to the neighbourhood, the many

attractions of the beautiful town. Coming
to the Hoe, " Ah ! " said the visitor, on
                                " what a hand
seeing Smeaton's structure ;    " Yes ! " replied
                             "
some  lighthouse you  have
                            !
the Plymouthian, --and he thought he was
speaking the truth,--" that is Smeaton's

famous tower which formerly stood on the

Eddystone.a          unfortunately, got blown

                It,
down in storm, but was recovered from the

sea, and erected here as a curiosity."
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  117

The Douglass lighthouse being practically

completed by May 1882, the building was
formally opened on the 18th of that month

by the Duke of Edinburgh, who thus made

his third visit to the Eddystone in connection

with this undertaking. His Royal Highness,

indeed, took at all times the utmost interest

in the affairs of the ancient Corporation of

which, for the long period of twenty-eight

years, he was the Master, but it may surprise

the reader to be told that the Duchess of

Edinburgh did also ; yet such was the
case. On the occasion of Her Imperial

Highriess' first visit to the Trinity House,

Mr. Douglass had the honour of being

commanded to explain to the Duchess the

various models. But he found that there was

very little of importance that Her Imperial

Highness did not already know respecting

our lighthouses.  The Duchess, he after

wards said, showed a more intimate

acquaintance with the subject than any other

lady to whom he had ever spoken. But,

--to return to the opening ceremony, --wind

and weather favoured that interesting

function, by which, as one of the newspapers
put " Plymouth was profoundly stirred "
it,

                                                                                                                          ;
n8 Life of

and at sunset the new double-flashing half

minute light, with a lower fixed one to mark

a dangerous shoal called the Hand Deeps,

blazed from the Douglass tower. The esti

mate for this lighthouse was .£78,000.

" We are disposed to think," wrote one of
the high-class engineering journals, in July

1878, ''that Mr. Douglass' estimate will be
                          If he succeeds in
greatly exceeded

keeping the actual cost of the work down to

anything like £80,000, he will have done

very well indeed." The actual cost was
-£59.250. The same journal stated : " It

appears to us that, bearing all the conditions

in view, he has assigned far too short a time,

--five years, --for the completion of the

work." The work was completed in four

years.
At the end of June 1882, Her Majesty the
                           its  architect the
Queen    conferred upon   " on  the occasion,"
honour  of a knighthood,
--Mr. Gladstone had written, in communi
cating the Royal intention, -- " of the

completion of the new Eddystone lighthouse,

with which your name is so honourably
connected." And surely, if a man can ever

be said to merit such a reward, the recipient
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  1 19

had done so, even regardless of the particular

achievement for which it was bestowed ; for
the new " Eddystone," though the best known,
was by no means the most difficult of the

many important engineering works which
its designer had, throughout his long and
laborious life, been instrumental in carrying
out, for the benefit of those "that do

business in great waters."
    Before this chapter closes, it should be

stated that, for many years after the
completion of the Douglass tower, two

bells were rung from the gallery course
during thick or foggy weather ; but that,
in 1 89 1, an explosive signal, giving a
report every five minutes, was substituted
for these.
                CHAPTER XIII.

In i 88 i the Corporation of Trinity House
undertook, at the request of the Board of

Trade, the erection of a lighthouse on the
island of Minicoy, in the Indian Ocean ; and,
on the 4th of November of that year,

Mr. T. Matthews, then the tried and trusted

chief constructive assistant to Mr. Douglass,
whom he afterwards succeeded as engineer-

in-chief at the Trinity House, was selected

to visit the site, for the purpose of making
the necessary survey and local enquiries.
Mr. Matthews reached Colombo on the
24th of November, whence he proceeded
to Minicoy in H.M.S. "Ready," arriving
at the island on the morning of the
1st of December, and completed his
work there with great promptitude, viz.: by
the 8th. Mr. Douglass' design and estimate
for the structure having been approved, and

the requisite preliminary arrangements made,

Mr. T. Edmond was appointed to supervise

its erection, and left England in September
 1882, with a foreman and three leading
        Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass. 121

hands, to commence the building operations.

The project, which was not a difficult one,

need not be described in detail ; but it may
be stated that masons, and other mechanics,

were got from Galle to assist the English
workmen, --the islanders making up the
rest of the executive staff; that the walls
of the tower, for which the site had
previously to be cleared of all jungle and
cocoa-nut trees, were built of coral (taken
from the foreshore) faced with blue vitrified
Staffordshire pricks ; and that the lighthouse
was completed by the end of 1884, nothing
having occurred to mar the success of the
undertaking, except the death, from malarial
fever, of the English foreman, Mr. John
Woodcock, a trustworthy and excellent man.
But, though little need be said about the

building, the following particulars, mainly
supplied by Mr. Oliver Bartholomeusz,

L.C.M.C. (the clever young Ceylonese

medical officer who was attached to the

works) respecting Minicoy and its people,
may prove interesting.

    Minicoy, or " Malika," belongs to the
group of coral islands called the Lakadives,
which, with the Maldives, stretch over a
122 Life of

space of about twelve hundred miles from

north to south, the Maldives alone con

sisting of about twelve thousand islets.

The islands are grouped together by twos

and threes, within girdle-like reefs, each

cluster being called by the natives an
" atoll " ; and a sort of telephonic com
munication is carried on between their

respective inhabitants, by means of a cord

attached to the centre of a membrane

stretched over the end of a hollow cylinder.

   Minicoy lies between latitude 8° 14' and

8° 19' N. ; long. 720 59' and 730 5' E. Its

position is directly in the track of steamers

trading to India, Ceylon, China, Japan,

and  Australia  ; and,  in 1863, the Peninsular
and  Oriental   steam   vessel " Colombo " was

wrecked in the immediate locality. The

island is a narrow crescent-shaped strip of

low coral land, well planted throughout with

cocoanut trees, is seven miles long, from a

quarter to a half a mile wide, and lies

north-east and south-west. An irregular

coral reef projects from its north-west face

about three miles, and is joined to the

extremes of the island, forming a large

lagoon where boats and small vessels,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  123

drawing seven or eight feet of water, are
well sheltered.

    The natives of Minicoy, numbering

between two and three thousand, are

descended from a colony of ancient
Singhalese. The men are well built, strong
and muscular, averaging in height between
five feet two inches and five feet six

inches. They are of a dark copper colour,
have angular features, with dark eyes and
well shaped noses. The women are small,
shapely in figure, and of a lighter colour
than the men.

    The islanders are all Mohammedans ;

the new religion, according to tradition,
having been introduced here, between four
and five hundred years ago, by Boduthakuru-
wan, a religious reformer from the Maldives.
Mr. Bartholomeusz says : " the natives recog
nise many of the Old Testament worthies,
and are able to narrate the events connected

with their lives, but with many variations
and modifications. They believe in Christ as
a prophet, " Esa Nabbi," and recount some
of the miracles wrought by Him, which, in
 the main, correspond with the description
 given of them by the Gospel writers."
124 Life of

The children are all taught to read and

write, free education having been adopted

on the island even before such a system

was established in England, and are expected

to commit to memory the prayers and

certain portions of the Koran. Toy boats,

some of which are elaborately carved and

painted, are the chief playthings of the

boys and girls, who learn to swim by the
            can run, and "it
time  they                    is  interesting,"
says   Mr.  Bartholomeusz, "  to    watch the

little ones swimming after their boats, as

they float away with their diminutive sails
filled with the wind." The boys fish with

the rod and line, fly kites, make and use pop

guns, but don't play with marbles or tops;

nor, strange to say, do the girls know

what dolls are.

The women wear round the waist a

cloth kept in position by a silver girdle,

and over this a long loose tunic, reaching

from the neck to the ankles, with sleeves

down to the wrists, the collar being beauti

fully embroidered with different coloured

threads. Thus attired, says Mr. Bartholo

meusz, "the women and girls look very

decent and modest." They are fond of
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                   125

jewels, especially bangles and ear-rings, the

united weight of the former on each arm

being about three pounds ; and the friction
of these, where the pressure is greatest,

often causes warts on the wrists. Nose

rings are never worn, and finger rings

seldom. They paint their eyebrows and

the borders of their eyelids with a thick
tarry substance of a jet-black colour, which,

says Mr. Bartholomeusz, "does certainly

lend a peculiar charm to the countenance,

especially if it be that of a ' cuda bebe '

or young woman."

   The lowest class are the Raveries, or
toddy drawers. " They are not allowed,"
says Mr. Bartholomeusz, " to aspire to

anything higher      than   the    trade   of   their
fathers," although,  as he  dryly   adds,   "  rising

high is an essential feature in it." The

toddy is extracted from the flower of the

cocoanut palm, and converted into jaggery

by boiling it over a slow fire. None
of it is allowed to ferment, the natives

being strict teetotallers, to which fact

Mr. Bartholomeusz attributes the peaceable
nature of the people. The middle class

men (the Thakuruwanus) generally follow
126 Life of

a seafaring life, and the aristocratic caste
(the Manikuwanus) are owners of vessels,
captains or traders.

   The village of Minicoy is situated in

the centre of the island, which position is

also the most elevated part. On the beach

the native gentlemen lounge in large
swinging cradles, and enjoy the breeze.
Every house has a verandah and a porch,
in which latter is suspended a similar
cradle, where the master has his mid-day
siesta. " On one side of the porch," says
Mr. Bartholomeusz, " is a large raised
platform or divan, built of coral and mortar,
and covered with pretty Maldive mats.
Here visitors are entertained, and on it

they sit, tailor fashion, and chew the
aromatic, but mouth discolouring, compound
of betel leaf, areka nut, lime, tobacco, and

cloves, which is as sure to be offered to
them as are liquid, but intoxicating com
pounds among nations boasting of a
Western civilisation. Here, too, they
eat sweets, and sip tea or coffee, or

else lounge comfortably and smoke the
hookah."

    There are lepers at Minicoy, and these
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                        1 27

are segregated in a group of huts about

three miles from the village.

So ends all that can here be inserted

relative to this little-known island and its

interesting people. It is only indirectly

connected with the story which these

pages are intended to unfold ; but the
reader may, perhaps, find the account

somewhat of a relief, after the more

technical topics which have, necessarily,

it.preceded

                             ;The works at Minicoy being, as aforesaid,
completed, Sir James Douglass proceeded
                                                 a
there to inspect them, and witness the first

exhibition of the new light, arriving at the
island from Colombo, in the " Ceylon " steam

tender, accompanied by Lieutenant Wilding,
R.N. (the Board of Trade local agent) on the
2nd of February 1885. The visitors were
received by the Amin, or governor, arrayed

in gilt turban and robe of purple silk,

attended by his chiefs and retainers, also
gorgeously attired and, all along the palm-

fringed pathway leading from the beach to

the lighthouse, flags and other decorations
abounded, --the islanders forming
                                                    pro

cession, partly composed of native musicians
128 Life of

playing on their brass drums, and dancing
and singing. After the official inspection of
the new establishment, with its apparatus,
and the temporary lighting, by the Amin, of
the large concentric lamp, a return was
made to the beach, where was found an
imposing gathering of gaily-dressed native
ladies and women, who sprinkled the
strangers with rose water, presented each
with a clove-studded betel leaf, and with

sweet-smelling otto for anointing their beards.
Then the village, three miles distant from the
lighthouse, was visited, the Amin and his
guests proceeding thither in a gig, towed
by a pair of the native pleasure barges,
each manned by twenty-two young men
rowers, in smart attire, and singing all the
way ; and at sunset, the guests having
meanwhile been regally entertained by the
Amin and his brother-in-law, Don Manakin,
the lamp of the optical apparatus was re

kindled, and the light, --dioptric of the first

order giving a white flash every half minute, --
permanently exhibited from the new building.

    Before leaving for England, Sir James
took the opportunity of accompanying
Lieutenant Wilding, in the " Ceylon," to
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  129

the Great and Little Basses lighthouses,
and of seeing, for the first time, those
splendid towers of his own design. There
was too much sea at both rocks for a boat

to approach either with safety, and landings
had to be effected by the visitors being
hauled through the surf. The structures
were found to be in perfect order.
               CHAPTER XIV.

The condition of the tower on the Bishop

rock, with the erection of which structure

the early pages of this memoir so fully

dealt, had, for many years prior to 1882,

caused no little anxiety to the authorities

of the Trinity House. There never was

a work of the kind better constructed ; but

the seas to which the building is exposed

are, as has been said, terrific. Thus, during

a violent storm, a five hundredweight fog

bell, fixed on the gallery course a hundred

feet above high water, was torn from its

attachments,     and hurled on  to the rock ;
large pieces,                   weighing half
               --some of them
a hundredweight each, --were split from the

lower external blocks of granite, owing to

the excessive strain on the structure in

rough weather ; and the prisms of the optical

apparatus were, from the same cause,
               In 1874 the tower was
fractured.

strengthened by massive iron ties, bolted

to the internal surface of the walls, and

connected through the floors ; but even this
Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass. 131

precaution was not found sufficient to ensure

the stability of the lighthouse.  The
Corporation of Trinity House, --acting
under the advice of their engineer, --there

upon decided practically to rebuild it, by

enveloping the structure in an outer casing

of masonry, dovetailed horizontally and

vertically, from the foundation courses up

to the level of the service room floor,

removing the portions above that point,

and adding four new rooms, which alteration
rendered it necessary that the outline of the

tower should be adapted to the increased

height of the building. It was further

decided to construct a vertical base to the

structure, as in the case of the new

Eddystone lighthouse.
   On the completion, in 1882, of the works

at the latter station, the steam vessel, plant

and tools were transferred therefrom to the

Bishop, and Mr. W. T. Douglass was

appointed resident engineer of the new

enterprise.  Thus the grandfather, the

father, and the son were all engaged, at

some time or other, in the construction

of the tower on the Bishop rock. The
dressing back of the surface of the old
132 Life of

structure, to receive the outer stones, was

a very tedious operation ; and, at the lower
levels of the work, the men engaged in
this process, and afterwards in fitting the
new blocks into the old ones, were often in
danger of being washed off the staging by
the heavy seas that would, unexpectedly,

break upon the tower and submerge them.

The entire project, however, was most
courageously and efficiently carried out,
without serious accident of any 'kind,

and was completed in five years, the
weight of the original structure having thus
been increased by the addition of three

thousand two hundred and twenty tons of
granite. This important strengthening and

improvement of the tower admitted of its

more effectual lighting, the desirability of

which, indeed, had long been felt. Accord
ingly, a new lantern and dioptric apparatus,

--the latter on the biform principle adopted

at the Eddystone, but having a greater

focal distance, --were erected at the Bishop.

The new light, which was first shown on
the night of the 25th of October 1887,

gives two white flashes every minute, has
a maximum intensity of one hundred and
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  133

seventy thousand five hundred candles, and

a nautical range of eighteen and a quarter
miles. An explosive signal was also pro

vided, and is fired every five minutes during
thick or foggy weather. The cost of the

whole undertaking was nearly ^65,000,

making the total sum expended altogether

in lighthouse construction on this rock about

£ 1 1 2,000.

   While the works at the Bishop were in

progress, Mr. W. T. Douglass also built the

lighthouse mentioned in the early part of

this memoir as having been erected on

Round Island. After completing these two
projects, he left the service of the Corporation

of Trinity House, there being no immediate
prospect of that body proceeding with another

work of sufficient magnitude to induce him to
remain under his father. He then commenced

practice for himself in Westminster, and
soon, by dint of that superabundant energy,
and many of the other high qualities, which
one naturally associates with his name, won

for himself an excellent position, which

he still retains, as a general, --and especially
a lighthouse, -- consulting engineer, in

which latter capacity he is now the chief
i34 Life of

authority in this country, outside official

circles.

   As this record, mainly of rock lighthouse
building, began with the Bishop, so with
the Bishop it must end, for there was no
other undertaking of the kind that Sir James
lived to carry out. The following shore and
island works were, however, executed from

his designs, and under his supervision,
subsequently to those last-mentioned, viz. :

new lighthouses at Anvil Point, Round
Island, Southwold, Broadness, Stoneness and

Tilburyness ; a new fog signal station at
Souter Point ; and extensive alterations
and additions at Start, St. Catherine's
 (for electricity) Orford and Gibraltar,
also at the following district storehouses,
viz. : Blackwall, Harwich, Cowes and

Penzance.

   It should further be stated in this place

that, either through his official superiors or
with their concurrence, he rendered, during

the entire period of his service at the Trinity

House, valuable assistance in lighthouse con
struction and development to many of our
public departments at home and abroad, to
most of our Colonies, to the Chinese Imperial
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  135

Maritime Customs, and to foreign Govern

ments. Sometimes, in this connection, his

advice only was sought ; but frequently he

designed lighthouses, lanterns, optical and

fog signal apparatus &c, in which case such

portions, --often the greater part, --of the

work as were prepared in this country were

constructed here under his supervision.

   Sir James was an ingenious, as well as a
bold and energetic, man. While engaged
in the erection of the Smalls rock lighthouse,
in the early stages of his career, he invented
a many-bladed axe, which considerably
facilitated the dressing of granite, and had
not been long at the Trinity House before

he was able to effect an important improve

ment in bell buoys, causing them not only

to ride better than formerly, but, what is
of greater importance, to ring out their
warning notes more loudly and reliably in
all states of the weather. Then he turned
his attention to the subject of lighthouse
lanterns. Smeaton's lantern was of the

octagon type, having massive horizontal and
vertical sash bars, which obstructed, in
certain directions, nearly fifty per cent, of
the light from the luminary. The lantern
136 Life of

thus described had not long become obsolete
in this country, and, until comparatively
recent years, was the only one used in
the lighthouse service of the United States.
It was, however, a source of frequent
mischief; for, often, one of its vertical sashes
interposing between the light and the point
of observation, proved so complete a
barrier, that mariners have reported a light

extinguished altogether, when it was merely

thus practically extinguished for them. To

Mr. Alan Stevenson is due the introduction

of helical joints in dioptric apparatus ; and
it was he, also, who first substituted diagonal
for vertical framing in the lantern, by which
improvements, to quote from Professor
Tyndall, " the flame is never obscured from
top to bottom of the apparatus at the same
time." In 1864, however, Mr. Douglass
 invented his cylindrical helically framed

lantern, -- now solely used for new English
 lighthouses, -- which, besides being optically

 perfect in form, and possessing a maximum

 of strength, offers a minimum of obstruction

 to the light sent from the illuminating
 apparatus. In fact, such shadow as the
 framing of this lantern casts was reported
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                       137

by Faraday, who was scientific adviser to
the Trinity House, to be entirely lost at
a distance of less than one hundred feet ;

and Tyndall, who succeeded Faraday in

that capacity, stated  that  Mr.  dDeosiuggnlas"s   had
formed and carried     out   his                   in a

manner which excites my admiration." A

lantern of this type, it should be added,

was shown at the Paris Exhibition of 1867,

and elicited the highest praise from foreign

engineers.
    But the most important improvement due

to Mr. Douglass' inventiveness was in
connection with the burners of lighthouses
and light vessels. This improvement consists
of an arrangement of compound deflectors
surrounding the burner and lower part of
the flames, in connection with which deflectors

is a glass chimney, both deflectors and chimney

being so arranged as to force the outer flame
or flames on to the inner flame or flames,

thus condensing them to the smallest possible

dimensions, and deflecting on to the internal
and external surfaces of each of the rings
of flame the whole of the ascending currents
of air, in such a manner as to obtain a

maximum intensity of light. The power
   138 Life of

   can be increased or decreased, as may be
   required for coast illumination, to meet
   changes in the state of the atmosphere, and
   the increase or decrease can be promptly
   effected without altering the external form

   or dimensions of the light. A cylindrical

   chimney having no shoulder is employed,
   this shape being more suitable for an optical
   apparatus than a cylinder having a shoulder,
   and its cost being less. The flame of the
   improved burner is nearly cylindrical inform,

   and is thus better adapted for service in an

   optical apparatus than the tapered flames

   of the lamps previously used for coast
   illumination. Flames vastly greater in
   intensity than formerly are produced, with
   a corresponding diameter and height ; con
   sequently the efficiency of optical apparatus
   of any dimensions, with one of the old
   burners at the focus, can be very much
   augmented by installing one of the improved
   burners, or, where reduction of first cost
   and of maintenance is the chief desideratum,

   optical apparatus and lanterns of the second
   order dimensions for dioptric stations can
   be adopted, with the same degree of efficiency
   as before with the first order size, and thus

\
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  139

a considerable saving in cost be effected.
The number of concentric wicks, more

over, in the Fresnel lighthouse-burner was
increased from four to six, then to eight, and
ultimately to ten ; and the one-wick Argand
lamp enlarged, and made to burn two wicks.

The net result of these improvements is

that there is now available, for lighthouse
illumination, a burner having a maximum
intensity of eighteen hundred candles,
instead of only two hundred and thirty

candles as formerly, and that the intensity

of the Argand lamp, --chiefly employed in
the illumination of light vessels, --has been

increased from nineteen candles to sixty
candles, which gains in initial power are,

of course, greatly augmented by the optical

apparatus before the light reaches the eye

of the mariner.

    Another invention of Sir James' was the

fluted craterless carbon for electric arc

lighting. He had found that, with the most

reliable and efficient machine that had yet
been tried for lighthouse purposes, viz. : the
large size alternate current magneto machine

of De Meritens, the intensity of the arc in

the horizontal plane, per square millimetre
140 Lift of

of sectional area of carbon, was about thirty-

five per cent, less than it was with the old

small square carbons used with the
'* Holmes " direct current magneto machines.
This result appeared to be due, first, to the

loss, with the powerful currents now
available, of a large portion of the most

intense part of the arc which is confined

within the crater of each carbon, and,

secondly, to the fluctuations in the intensity

of the arc, caused by the current passing
between various parts of the end of each
carbon. In connection with the electric

installation at St. Catherine's lighthouse,

completed  in 1888, it was intended to use
one '* De  Meritens " machine during clear

weather, and two of such machines in thick

weather. Here, then, would have arisen a

defect common to all electric flashing lights

where two intensities are adopted, viz. :
that the duration of the flashes of minimum

and maximum intensity would vary in the

ratio of the difference in the diameters of

the two sizes of carbons employed, thus
impairing the distinctive character of the
light. " It occurred to me, however," wrote
Sir James, in a communication which he
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  141

made on the subject to the Royal Society,
"that, if carbons of a fluted section were

employed for the arc of minimum intensity,

whose extreme diameter corresponded

exactly with the diameter of the cylindrical
carbons used for the arc of maximum

intensity, and of exactly half the sectional
area of the latter, the defect referred to

would be entirely obviated, and the flashes
of maximum and minimum intensity would

have exactly the same duration. Other

advantages to be obtained with fluted

carbons are, (1) a larger vertical angle of
radiant light from the arc, and with a
higher co-efficient of intensity, in consequence
of the unobstructed radiance through the
fluting at the points of each carbon ; and

(2) a steadier light is obtained, owing to
the localising of the current at the central
portion of each carbon. The results of
many experimental trials, with fluted carbons
50 mm. diameter, have entirely confirmed
my expectations. No crater is formed, and
the point of each carbon is all that can be

desired for utilising fully the maximum
light of the arc. My experiments have not
been sufficient to determine accurately the
142 Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.

additional intensity of light obtained
from the arc of a pair of the fluted carbons,
as compared with that from the arc of a

pair of cylindrical carbons, but I am of

opinion that the gain with fluted carbons
is not less than ten per cent." These
carbons are now used, with excellent results,
at all the electric lighthouses under the

jurisdiction of the Trinity House.
    The above-mentioned are the chief, but

not the whole, of Sir James' inventions.
Most of them were patented at his own
expense, and, as he allowed all public
authorities to adopt the improvements
without any payment, either direct or
indirect, and, as there was practically no
other demand for them, it follows that his

inventions were a heavy tax on his purse.
                    CHAPTER XV.

In addition to the construction of light

houses and other buildings, the engineer-

in-chief to the Trinity House is entrusted

with the control of its workshops at Blackwall,
which have already been described, with
the construction and installation of Siren
and other fog signals, both ashore and
afloat, with the supervision of the manu
facture of chain cables for light vessels, the
construction of steel buoys, and iron buoy
sinkers, also of the engines and boilers

of the Trinity House steam vessels.

A very important part, moreover, of his

duties consists, sometimes in proposing,
but generally in organizing, and taking a
leading share in carrying out, from time to

time, those practical experiments by which
the Elder Brethren are enabled to maintain,

in the highest state of efficiency, the service
which they are responsible for administering.
Some of the most important of such in

vestigations in which Sir James took part, --

being efficiently aided throughout all of
144 Life °f

them  byyearMs r.hiAs rtahsusristAanytrese,ngwinheoer,w--asweforer
many

(1) with a view to the adoption of mineral
oil as an illuminant for lighthouses and

light vessels, --which resulted in his

successfully adapting their burners for

consuming that illuminant, instead of the

more expensive colza as previously, whereby

a large annual economy was effected ; (2)
for determining, at different times, the most

efficient electric machines for lighthouse

"puSriproesnes"  ; (3)  for testing  the merits of the
                  and    other fog
                                     signals ; (4) for

ascertaining the precise relative advantages

of electricity, gas and oil for lighthouse

illumination ; (5) for establishing electrical
communication with light vessels; (6) for
fixing, by actual measurements, the exact

powers of all types of optical apparatus used in

the three lighthouse services of the British

Isles. The experiments with fog signals, and

the important results which ensued from

them, demand here some fulness of treatment ;

and, should the reader desire any information

on the subject beyond what will now be set

forth, he cannot do better than consult the

admirable descriptive account contributed
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  145

to " Lighthouses of the World " (Laurie)
by Mr. E. Price Edwards, one of the
principal officials of the Trinity House.

   The Londoner knows the danger to
locomotion of the fogs that not unfrequently
envelope the metropolis in a thick veil,

which the fingers of Science have hitherto

been powerless to raise ; but a fog at sea
is, it is needless to observe, an infinitely
more serious matter, often utterly baffling,
as it does, the skill of the most efficient

navigator. It is true that the greatly

augmented penetrative intensity which the
modern lights of our lighthouses possess,
over those of even a few years ago,

diminishes, at night, to some extent, the
evils of a fog at sea ; although, in reference
to even the most powerful of these luminaries,

--the electric light, -- its increased penetrative

capacity during fog is not, in comparison
with oil or gas lights, in the ratio of its
higher illuminating power ; while fogs by
day are, of course, independently of sound

warnings, as perilous to the mariner now

as they ever were.

    Until within the last quarter of a century,

the only fog signals provided by the
146 Life of

lighthouse authorities of the United Kingdom
were gongs, bells, and guns. The gongs,

which were chiefly employed on board light

vessels, were usually of Chinese make, were

suspended by a line, and struck by hand

with a gong-stick. The sound thus

produced is said to have been distinctive,

and evenly distributed all round, its

minimum range being about a quarter of

a mile. The bells, which were chiefly

employed at lighthouses, varied from three

to forty-five hundredweight. They were

suspended by brackets from the pedestal

of the lantern, or the gallery, and were

struck by a hammer, set in motion by

clockwork driven by a weight. Another

form, however in which bells were, and

still are, used as fog-signals is when fixed

on the top of a large buoy, with four

hanging clappers around the outside of the

bell, which is struck by them as the buoy
is moved by the action of the waves.

The reader    tphreobbaeblllyonrethmeemInbchecrsapeSoruotchke:y--'s
ballad about
" On a buoy in the storm it floated and swung,
And over the waves its warning rung.
When the rock was hid by the surge's swell,
The mariners heard the warning bell ;
And then they knew the perilous rock.
And bless'd the Abbot of Aberbrothok."
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  147

The sound of the best of these instruments,

 under the most favourable atmospheric

conditions, may be wafted by the breeze
to a distance of several miles ; but their

minimum range is, probably, not in excess
of that of gongs. The guns, which were

chiefly employed at lighthouses on
prominent headlands, were ordinarily the
old long eighteen-pounder, with a three-
pound charge of powder, their minimum
range being extremely limited. Professor

Tyndall mentions various objections against
the use of guns as fog signals, chief among
which is that " the duration of sound is so

short that, unless the observer is prepared
beforehand, the sound, through lack of
attention rather than through its own
powerlessness, is liable to be unheard."
He, however, observes : " Still, notwith

standing these drawbacks, I think the gun

is entitled to rank as a first-class signal."
   The above-named instruments answered

fairly well the purpose for which they were
intended ; but, for many years before their

partial abolition, it was felt by the lighthouse
authorities of this country that the time
had come when, in the interests of our
148 Life of

rapidly increasing maritime commerce, these

signals should yield to more efficient ones.

Accordingly, in 1873-4, a prolonged investiga
tion into the subject of fog, and competitive

trials of the various sound-producing instru

ments, were conducted, at the South Foreland

lighthouses, by Professor Tyndall, in his

capacity of scientific adviser to the Trinity
House, with the co-operation of Mr. Douglass.
That investigation, which, it is unnecessary

to observe, was carried out with immense

care and ability, established important results,

which are   stated at  "  length   in Professor
Tyndall's  work on        Sound,"    but which

Mr. Price Edwards has thus summarised :
" That neither rain, hail, snow, or fog has

any sensible power to obstruct sound. That
the real obstructors of sound are, first, the

wind ; and, secondly, what Dr. Tyndall named

acoustic clouds. These clouds have nothing

to do with ordinary clouds, fogs, or haze,

and may arise from air currents differently

heated, or from air currents differently

saturated with vapour, and they often exist

on days when the atmosphere is visually in a
very transparent condition. The obstruction

is caused by the sound, intercepted by the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  149

acoustic clouds, being wasted by repeated

reflections. In short, it is now established

that a bright clear day is not necessarily the

best for hearing distant sounds, and that,

on a day of dense fog, it is more than

probable that no obstruction is offered to

the passage of sounds."
   The competitive trials disclosed, beyond

doubt, the fact that, of all  sound-producing
instruments, the " Siren "     was the most

powerful. The Siren, as a fog signal, is of

American origin, having been patented by

Messrs. A. & F. Brown, of New York. A

committee from the Trinity House visited the

United States in 1872, and witnessed, while

there, a performance of this instrument, with

the working of which they were so well pleased

that, for the competitive experiments at the

South Foreland in the two following years,

one of the Sirens was sent over from America,

and tried, with the successful result which

has been mentioned. The Siren can be

sounded with either steam or compressed

air, made to pass through a fixed flat disc,

fitted into the throat of a long trumpet

connected with the steam or air pipe. It

is thus further described by Mr. Price
150 Life of

Edwards : " This disc has twelve radial slits,

and behind it is a rotating disc, with twelve
similar slits, the rotation being effected by
separate mechanism. Imagine, then, the
pressure of steam or air to be impinging on the
fixed disc, and the other disc rotating ; it will be

understood that the slits in each frequently

coincide, -- in fact, the twelve slits in one

revolution coincide twelve times, and at each

coincidence a puff of steam or air at great

pressure escapes through into the trumpet.

It is the rapid succession of these puffs which
forms the sound of the Siren. The disc is

rotated so as to make two thousand four

hundred rotations in a minute, and, as there

are twelve coincidences in a revolution, it

follows that the number of puffs passing

through in a minute would be twenty-eight

thousand eight hundred. It can readily be

understood that a sound of surpassing power

is thus generated, and, as the vibrations

produced are not taken up by the cast-iron

trumpet, the sound issues from the mouth

in a condensed beam of great intensity."

   The Siren above described is the   original
or " driven " one ; but the improved  modern

type, which has superseded  it,     cylindrical
                                is
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                               151

in form and rotated automatically by the air
in passing through the Siren being fitted
with a centrifugal governor, which readily
it,
                         is

adjustable for any required speed of the
instrument. The cylindrical form of Siren,

as also this governor, are due to the ingenuity

of Mr. G. H. Slight, who, as already stated,

was for so long a period the superintendent

of the Trinity House engineering workshops.
   Nearly forty of these powerful instruments,

wMor.rkDeodubgylascsa,lo--ricacteinngginuensd, ewr ethree  installed by
                                                           instructions
of his Board, --at a cost of about ^50,000,

around the coast of England and Wales,

and answer admirably the purpose they are
intended to serve. He calculated their

minimum sound range to be a mile, under
the most adverse conditions of the atmosphere

and against a strong wind but that, with
is
                                                       ;

                                         it
favourable wind and weather, they might
be heard at a distance of ten miles. The

apparatus always maintained in a forward

state for immediate use, by a small fire being
kept constantly burning in the furnace of

one of the caloric engines, so that, on the

first indication of fog, the signal may be
sounded. And a horrible noise makes.
152 Life of

" When the Siren hoots and roars," says
Kipling, which is a graphic description of the

hideous, but useful, notes it emits.

   A matter of the greatest importance, in

connection with coast fog-signals, is the most
effective mode of individualising their sound,
so that one signal shall not be mistaken for

another. At present it is attempted to

obtain this result by merely varying, in a
given period, the number of blasts and silent
intervals and the pitch of the notes. These

distinctions appear to be sufficiently character
istic to satisfy the nautical mind, but it would

seem that they do not altogether satisfy the

scientific mind, for Sir W. H. Preece, F.R.S.,

late engineer-in-chief to the Post Office, has
thus expressed himself on the subject : " On
entering the English Channel there are
 three prominent points, the Lizard, the
 Start, and the Caskets ; and it is perfectly

 clear that, if each of those lighthouses were

 supplied with a Siren which should shout

 ' I am the Lizard ' ; ' I am the Start ' ; ' I am

 the Caskets,' no one could possibly make a

 mistake, if he understood English, though a

 Russian or a Danish sailor might still be

 puzzled." To make this system more
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.           153

comprehensive, Lord Kelvin, F.R.S., when Sir

William Thomson, proposed that every light

house should indicate its position in telegraphic
language, which is this : " Instead of using

common words, the names are spelled out

in high and low tones, or by long and short

sounds, or by dots and dashes, but generally

by long and short sounds, which are to the

telegraphist as clear and distinct as language.

. . . By this code a lighthouse might

be flashing out its name all night long in

this telegraphic language. And not only

could it do so by means of light, but it could

do so by means of sound. They only need

arrange the fog-horns, Sirens, or whistles,

to repeat these signals after each other in

a certain preconcerted way, so that, whether

by day or night, in clear weather or fog, a

mariner who has once learned this language,

when he came within range of a lighthouse

could not fail to know where he was."

Now, all this reads delightfully simple ;

but, unfortunately, no less an authority than
Professor Tyndall has said that " it is not

really so easy as one might be led to

suppose ;" although he admits that  the ideal
state of things thus set forth is
                                    " one to
1 54 Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass.

aim at, on the principle that, as Chesterfield

says, ' the man who aims at the sky
would probably reach much higher than the

man who only threatens a tree,'" The

lighthouse authorities   of this    coofun"teryd,ucmaotirneg
over, assert that the   difficulty

every grade of maritime intelligence up to
the comprehension of such a system " would

be   insuperable ;     and that broad optical
    acoustic effects,   rather than " needlessly
or

subtle ones," are desired. They further

state that, among seamen, the parties chiefly

concerned in the matter, a strong pre

ponderance of opinion is on the side of

the existing system.
                   CHAPTER XVI.

The experiments, -- which also need
describing, --with electricity, gas and oil were

undertaken in 1884-5 f°r tne purpose of
settling for a long term of years, at any rate,
the relative merits of those illuminants for

lighthouse purposes. The investigating
committee consisted of the then Deputy
Master and six other Elder Brethren of the
Trinity House, with Mr. E. Price Edwards

as secretary, and with the following scientific
advisers, viz. : Mr. A. Vernon Harcourt,

M.A., F.R.S. (representing the Board of
Trade), Professor W. Grylls Adams, M.A.,
F.R.S. (for electricity), Mr. Harold Dixon,
M.A., of Trinity College, Oxford (for
photometry), Sir James Douglass (acting
for the Trinity House), Mr. Thomas
Stevenson (acting for the Scotch Light
Commissioners), and Dr., now Sir Robert,
Ball, F.R.S. (acting for the Irish Light
Commissioners). Mr. John R. Wigham, the

inventor of the gas system, personally
supervised the installation and working of
156 Life of

his apparatus, and the experiments were
witnessed at various times by representatives
of the Governments of France, Germany,
Denmark, Norway and Sweden, Russia,
Italy, Spain, Brazil, the United States and
Canada ; as also by many members of
scientific and engineering bodies at home
and abroad.

   On the site of the experiments, -- South
Foreland, --three strong wooden towers

were erected, in which were installed

respectively the electric light, the gas light,
and the oil light. The electric light was
produced by three of De Meritens magneto
machines, each containing sixty permanent
magnets of horseshoe form, eight laminated
pieces to every magnet, the whole disposed
in five rings of twelve magnets each, and
associated with five discs revolving within
them, each having twenty-four coils on its
outer ring, the revolving portion being run
at a speed of six hundred revolutions per
minute. The gas light was, as has been
said, on the Wigham system ; the burners,
four in number, being each composed of
one hundred and eight jets, compactly fitted
within a circle of eleven and a quarter inches
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  157

in diameter. The lowest of the burners,

which were superposed, was made in rings,
removable, according to the intensity of the
light required to be invoked, by twenties
in a ring, until the number of jets was

reduced to twenty-eight, the others being
constantly maintained at their normal power.

The oil light was produced by three six-
wick concentric lamps, --also superposed, --
of the Trinity House " Douglass " old

pattern, consuming paraffin, having a
flashing point of 154 deg. Fah. Each
light was surrounded by an optical apparatus,
arranged for producing both fixed and

revolving effects, which were witnessed at
sea as well as on shore, while actual

measurements of the lights were obtained in

a photometric gallery, three hundred and
eighty feet long by eight feet wide, erected

near the permanent lighthouse premises.

   Omitting any detailed description of the
various observations and results of these

prolonged experiments, the general con
clusions at which the committee arrived may
be summarised as follows. The electric

light, the report states, was demonstrated

torbe the most powerful of the three
158 Life of

luminaries, not only in clear weather, but also

in haze, mist, rain or snow ; and has, to a

limited extent, even greater penetration in
actual fog. Its first cost was found to be

below that of gas, but its annual maintenance
slightly in excess of gas, and considerably

above that of oil, owing chiefly to the

necessity for placing an engineer, with a

special staff of trained assistants, in charge
of an electric light establishment. The

committee, however, admitted that, in clear

weather, the electric light is not popular

with sailors, chiefly on account of its

dazzling effect at short ranges ; and did not

recommend its general adoption around the

coast, but only its limited use for bold

headlands. The gas light, under the
multiform system of Mr. Wigham, was

declared to be an unquestionably fine one,

but not practically superior in intensity

to the oil light. The flexibility of the gas

       it is,
                                                               is,
light  the committee pointed out, an

advantage in enabling its power to be

varied at pleasure, and the system                                  they

added, well suited for the superposed

arrangement.  The great heat, however,

which  generates under the multiform
       Sir James Nicholas Douglass.          1 59

system was, in their opinion, a serious

drawback     to its use, such heat being
destructive  of the optical apparatus (an
experience     actually realized at South

Foreland) detrimental to the health of the
attendant keeper, and involving a serious

risk of fire to the structure. Besides all

this, its cost is considerably greater than
that of a first-class oil light. The satisfactory

performance of the oil light has been alreadyis,
referred to. Its chief merit, in comparison

with gas, -- with which, as has been shown,
it successfully copes in power, -- the report

states, its immensely greater economy.

The further advantages claimed, by the

committee, for oil were that no complicated

process of manufacture at the lighthouse

renders the system unsuitable, like gas, for
rock stations that the management of the
       is
                            ;

                                    is
lamps        extremely simple, and that the

heat generated by oil                   considerably less

than that inseparable from the gas system.

   The report of the committee concluded

by stating their opinion, as the result of the

enquiry, that oil  is  the most suitable and

economical illuminant for the ordinary

necessities of lighthouse illumination, and
1oo Life of

that electricity offers the greatest advantages
for important headlands, or landfalls, where

a very powerful light is needed.

   It may have been noticed by the reader
that the name of Professor Tyndall, who

had, for many years, rendered such conspicuous
service in his capacity as scientific adviser
to the lighthouse authorities of this country,
does not appear in the list of the eminent
men who technically assisted in this

investigation. Unfortunately, the Professor
resigned all connection with lighthouse
matters in the initial stages of the arrange

ments for conducting this very enquiry. He

had for a considerable time espoused,
with all the enthusiasm of his Celtic

nature, the cause of the inventor of the

gas system, Mr. John R. Wigham, whom
he looked upon as a clever and meritorious
 inventor who was not having fair play ; and,
 as regards this particular investigation,
objected to Sir James Douglass, who had
 himself invented oil burners, being allowed
 practically to sit in judgment on a rival's
 scheme. Sir James declined to admit, by
 word or act, that, though his previous
 experience of the Wigham system was
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.     161

unfavourable, he was, therefore, incapable

of modifying his views on the subject, should

fresh facts warrant his so doing; and, his

Board supporting him in this attitude, the

loss of their distinguished scientific adviser

was the unhappy consequence.  No one,

who was acquainted with the circumstances,

questioned the Professor's chivalrous conduct

in this affair. He was not a rich man,

yet he relinquished an income of

several hundreds a year, rather than be a

party to what he deemed an unjust arrange

ment. But, though his motives were thus

disinterested, it does not follow that his

views were correct ; as to which latter point,

however, the time has passed, even if this

were the place, which it is not, for the

expression of any opinion.

   With reference to the experiments, --the

last in which Sir   James Douglass took part,
                     the actual powers of lights,
--for ascertaining

the authorities of the Trinity House had,

a considerable time prior to 1889, adopted

some practical measures with that object ;

but an impetus was, undoubtedly, given to

the question by a resolution of the Washington

International Maritime Conference of that

                              M
1 62 Life of

year, to the effect " that a uniform classifica
tion of lights, based on luminous intensity,

be adopted." Up to that date the mariner,

it is true, was told, in the published official

information for his guidance, -- the British
Admiralty List, for instance, --that a light

was of a certain " order " ; but this, for

various reasons, afforded little indication of

its intensity. Accordingly, during the years
1891-2, the engineers to the English, Scotch,

and Irish Lighthouse Boards, -- Sir James
Douglass, Mr. D. A. Stevenson and
Mr. William Douglass, --assisted by Mr. T.

Matthews, the present engineer-in-chief to the

Trinity House, subjected to photometric

measurement, at the South Foreland, each

description of burner and optical apparatus
used in the lighthouse services of the United
Kingdom ; and now the Admiralty List gives
the actual intensity of every light, in addition
to the information which it before contained,
such intensity being represented by a " pyre,"
or standard of one thousand candles. For

example, the very first light mentioned in
this publication is the Bishop Rock, which
is described as white, group-flashing, one

minute, D (which means dioptric) 5 7 to 1 70^,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.          163

i.e., fifty-seven thousand candles minimum

intensity, and one hundred and seventy
thousand five hundred candles maximum

intensity. The mariner, now, therefore, not

only knows, from its individuality, what light

he is looking at, but also what power it

possesses, and is thus greatly assisted in

calculating his distances.  for the several

   In the preparations

experiments which have been described, as

in the performance of whatever share he

was called upon to take in directing them,
Sir James displayed the same irrepressible
zeal that characterised him in all things.

Mr. J. Sparling, who was the engineer-in-

charge at South Foreland electric lighthouses

previous to, and during, the protracted

investigation of the   "suTbhjeercet  of lighthouse
illuminants, states :                  was such a

consuming desire, on the part of Sir James,

to cram all he could, in the way of work,

into the twenty-four hours that he never

seemed to trouble himself about food or
rest " ; and again : " When Mr. Harold

Dixon, Mr. Vernon Harcourt and others

were taking measurements in the photometric
shed, Sir James would be engaged the whole
   1 64 Life of

   day with them, being satisfied with a few

   sandwiches for luncheon ; he would stay there

   until 6.0 p.m., go to dinner, and afterwards
   occupy himself in taking observations at

   the huts until midnight, or accompanying

   gentlemen over the experimental towers,

   sometimes walking back just before we
   would put out the lights " (day-break).

   Nor was he only thus full of energy, but

   also, as the same witness    says, "full of
                                Mr. Sparling :
   resource." " In fact," adds
   "to be with him was to be inspired,"--a

   remark as truthful as it is telling.

      And, in illustration of another phase of
   Sir James' personality, Mr. Robert Smith,

   a foreman at the Trinity House Blackwall

   workshops, who has taken an active part

   in most of the important experiments that

   have been carried out by the English light

   house authorities during the past twenty-five

   years, thus writes : " A notable feature

   in the character of Sir James was the power
   he had of evoking loyal and even enthusiastic
   service. This was due to his habit of putting
   himself in the place of those who worked

   for or with him, so that they knew that to

   be true which he has been heard to say:

'
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  165

' I never ask a man to do that which I would

not do myself if necessary.' Those who

have been closely associated with him have
many times seen him put ' his shoulder to
the wheel ' in a way that a smaller man

would have thought undignified, but they

felt only increased respect and even affection

for him. A perfect memory, for not only the

faces, but the personalities of those who

served him, no matter what their grade, and
his evident sincerity of belief that they were

doing their best, put them on honour, to try
and be worthy of the trust reposed in them.

Just as Dr. Arnold's boys felt that they must

do their best because the Doctor believed in

them, so those who worked under Sir James
Douglass felt."

   Very much in the nature of experiments,

and, therefore, finding suitable mention in

this place, were the duties which periodically
took Sir James to the works, near
Birmingham, of Messrs. Chance Brothers
& Co., who, as already stated, are the sole
makers in this country of dioptric apparatus
for lighthouses. During the whole of the time

that he was at the Trinity House he paid
frequent visits thither, --often in the company
       i66 Life of

      of Professor Tyndall,--for the purpose of

        inspecting and testing some beautiful com
        bination of lenses and prisms that had been
        completed for installation ; in allusion to which
       visits Mr. James Kenward, who, throughout
        the greater part of the period in question,
        was the manager of Messrs. Chance's

       lighthouse department, thus writes : " The

        cardinal element in the professional character

       of Sir James Douglass was perhaps
        thoroughness. Others can speak as to how
        this was illustrated in his labours for the

       Trinity House generally. I can speak with

        full knowledge of that part of them which
        came under my notice during a connexion
        with him of many years. . . . Then his
        energy and unweariedness were not less

       worthy of note. I had many opportunities
       of observing this in his visits to the Light
        house Works of Messrs. Chance, both in
        company with Professor Tyndall, and alone,

         for the purpose of examining the finished

       apparatus constructed by that firm. Not

        only was he careful to note every item
         stipulated by the specifications, but he was
         prompt to suggest any possible improvement,
         whether optical or mechanical, throughout

N
            Sir James Nicholas Douglass.      167

the apparatus. Dr. Tyndall has often

spoken to myself and others of the great
aptness, skill and discrimination he found

in his colleague." And a foreman lamp-
maker, Mr. W. Rathbone, who served under

Mr. Kenward, as he still does under

Mr. H. J. Stobart, the present manager of

Messrs. Chance's lighthouse department,

thus describes, in phrases luminous like his

burners, how Sir James      a"pHpeisaresdoul  to him
and his fellow-mechanics :                     was in

his work, and in his work he literally spent
himself. . . . Sir James made a lasting
impression upon me by his strength of
character. He was manly ; he was firm,

strict, but reasonable. He had confidence

in his own power and ability, consequently

it was not necessary for him to appear to

...have these qualities. When he had once
settled a matter one felt that it would be

all right.  I can confirm what I

have written by conversations I have had

many times with our men ; all had similiar

impressions. If the work were ready it was

always a pleasure to meet Sir James ; if

not ready then we had to look out for it ;

and if matters went wrong we knew about
     1 68 Life of Sir fames Nicholas Douglass.

' it.                   Because Sir James was chief
     engineer he was not opinionated. Like all

     men of his calibre he was ever ready to

     listen to suggestions being practical he
                        is
     realized that                      ;
                    it  easier to expect than to

     get. He always knew that what was once

     said by a great man was true, and true:
                                                                :
     The mental and physical power of man
                                                                   I
     cannot always overcome the inertia of the
                                                                         is
     material.'" While another leading assistant                                  a I in
     employed on a different branch of work

     the   :ligMhrt.hoAulfsreeddepPaerntmdreonuts,osf aMyesssrs".          Chance,
     viz.                                                                   fancy

     can see him now, coming here to examine

     Douglass Lantern how he would take off
'                       '

                           ;

     his coat and hat, roll up his shirt sleeves, and                        f
     thoroughly go into every detail of the job "
                 CHAPTER XVII.

S1r James Douglass, in addition to being,
from 1887, a Fellow of the Royal Society,
was a Member of the Council, a Vice-
President, and, had his health been preserved,
would in a few years have been President,
of the Institution of Civil Engineers and of
the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
He was also a Member of the Council of the

Institution of Electrical Engineers, and a
Member of the Smeatonian Society of
Engineers. To his duties in connection
with these offices he brought to bear all
that capacity and energy of which mention

has been so often made in the foregoing
pages. This fact is sufficiently illustrated

by the following testimonies, borne by
Mr. James Forrest and Mr. Alfred Bache,
who, until lately, had been for so long the
able and indefatigable secretaries of the two
first-named Institutions, which indeed owe

no small portion of their prosperity to the
wisdom and zeal of those officials. " Sir
James Douglass," says Mr. Forrest, "was,
170 Life of

from 1 88 1, a Member of the Council of
the Institution of Civil Engineers, and in
that position, by assiduous attention to
the duties of the office, he earned the

esteem and regard of his colleagues, who
felt it a pleasure to be associated with
him, as he was always ready to undertake,

and to carry to a successful issue, any work
having for its object the good of the
profession of which he was a prominent and
distinguished member." And Mr. Bache
writes that Sir James, as a Member of the
Council of the Institution of Mechanical

Engineers from 1885, and a Vice-President
from 1889, exhibited precisely similar

qualities, adding : "His closest and most

careful attention was always devoted to the
business under deliberation, upon which

his clear and comprehensive opinions were

naturally most highly valued. All matters

devolving upon himself individually were
most readily undertaken and energetically

carried out. It was always a gratification

when his name was associated with any

particular business that had to be accom
plished." Sir James contributed several
valuable papers to the proceedings of the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.                                                                                                              171

Institution  oafndCiveixl haEunsgtiinveeerso,neincolnudi"ngThea
most able

Electric Light applied to Lighthouse
Illumination" (Session 1878-79).

   He was likewise a Member of the British

Association for the Advancement of Science,

attended, during many years, its annual

meetings, and, says its present senior

general secretary, Sir William Roberts-
Austen, K.C.B., F.R.S., "was most active,

useful and popular." He was president of

the mechanical section of the Association at

Birmingham, in 1886, when he delivered a

comprehensive and admirable address on a

subject with which, as he said in introducing

it,

                                                    ;
                                                                                 :

                                                                                                                                       1
he had been practically connected for

nearly half a century, viz the development
of lighthouses, light vessels, buoys and

beacons, together with their mechanical and

optical apparatus and attended the memor

able meeting at Montreal, Canada, in 884, --

the first occasion of the Association quitting
the Mother Country. The special party to
which Sir James attached himself was under
the guidance of Captain, afterwards Admiral,

Bedford Pim, ex-M.P. for Gravesend, and
was known as the " advance guard " of the
172 Life of

British Association, because its members
travelled through Canada before, instead of
after, the meeting. Captain Bedford Pirn
was a most popular leader, not only because
of his gracious presence and genial manners,

-- "a magnificent specimen of an English
man " one of the Canadian papers said of
him, --and because he had been a brave and

gallant sailor and arctic explorer, but because
it was he who originally proposed, and by
his persistence brought about, the Montreal
meeting. The idea when first mooted was,
to use his own words, "laughed to scorn.

My old friends thought I had taken leave
of my senses, and I got terribly chaffed

about it." Even when, in the following year,
his renewed proposal, which was seconded
by Sir Richard Temple, was carried many

felt dubious about the result. "You won't

get fifty members to go," said Sir John
Lubbock (now Lord Avebury), to his
gallant friend, who replied that he was

sure at least five hundred would ; and, as

a matter of fact, about a thousand in all

went out, and the meeting was a prodigious
success. Among the Bedford Pirn party,
besides Sir James, Lady, and Miss Alice
           Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  173

Douglass, was their old and revered friend

Mr. James Glaisher F.R.S.,          the  distinguished
                                         desirable and
aeronaut and meteorologist,         --a

delightful companion, whether in a balloon,

or on terra-firma. Even then he was
affectionately known         among his confreres
    " the             "      and, though now in
as         patriarch      ;

his ninety-second year, "age cannot
wither " him, " nor custom stale " his
" infinite variety." The party went from
the Mersey in the " Lake Huron "

(Beaver Line), direct to Montreal, where
they arrived on the 27th of July. After

staying there, sight-seeing, for a few

days, they proceeded, as guests of the

Canadian Pacific Railway Company, to the

Rocky Mountains, which was the furthest

point the wonderful line to Vancouver had

then reached,  visiting      on  "  the  way Ontario,
               Niagara.                   father," says
Toronto and                         My
Miss Douglass, " enjoyed the Falls more

than anything up to this time, and studied

them from every available point of view on

both sides." Resuming their journey, via

Lakes Huron and Superior, they again took

the Canadian Pacific Railway at Port

Arthur, and arrived at Kicking Horse Pass
174 Life of

on the i ith of August, having inspected some
Indian encampments en route. " We saw

several hundred of the red skins," said
Captain Bedford Pim ; " but even the ladies

were disappointed in the evident degeneracy

of the ' Noble Savage ' from ' Le Cerf Agile '
and ' The last of the Mohicans ' ; their chief

tendency now being to beg for tobacco, tea,

or in  fact anything    which     the travellers
would   give them."               father," says
                         " My

Miss Douglass, "was greatly interested in

the engineering difficulties of the line in

the mountains, and laid some of the

sleepers at the end of the track." No

train had previously crossed the summit

of the Rockies, and Lady Douglass was the

first  of the party to  do so, consequently,
said   Captain Bedford
                         Pim, " she became

the heroine of the hour." On the return

journey, Winnipeg was visited, to enable
the travellers to inspect some of the

Railway Company's model farms, and an

eighteen mile drive took them to Fort

Qu'Appelle, where Captain Bedford Pim
met a young friend, -- the grandson of an
         peer, -- who
English                 had just  abndoug"hitnfaormfaermd
for six   thousand     dollars,
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  175

me " (the Captain) " that he was quite a
'dab' at making butter." His partner, also

an aristocrat, was equally proud of his talent
for making bread; and a neighbour, an
Oxford man of high intellectual attainments,
was getting thirty dollars a month as

gardener at the Fort, -- "just the kind you

want to settle in the Northwest," said the
Captain, " not too big for his boots." How
all this would have delighted the heart of

Mr. Ruskin ! At Fort Qu'Appelle the

Hudson's Bay stores were visited, and

another drive of twenty-five miles across the

prairies brought the party to Indian Head.
Winnipeg and Port Arthur were again
reached, and finally, on the 25th, Montreal.

Interviewed by a newspaper reporter, after
this extensive trip, Sir James said that he
never beheld more magnificent scenery in

his life. They had traversed about one
thousand miles of prairie as flat as the page
of a book, and then the glorious scenery
of the Rockies burst upon them. The

most marvellous thing about the Rockies

was that they were wooded up to the
very summit. There was not a single
crevice, which had room for a tree, that was
176 Life of

not covered with pines. In this respect
they differed from any other mountains he
had ever beheld. Then, from the summit,
could be seen the illimitable primeval forest,

stretching away below them as far as the
eye could reach, until it was lost against the
horizon. He was deeply impressed, as well

as greatly charmed, with this magnificent
spectacle. The timber, of which he was a
judge, seemed of the best class, the fibre
as soft as flax, and infinitely superior to

any in the Province of Quebec. The

prospect of future development, suggested
by all he had seen, was simply boundless.
That the vast region through which
they had passed would yet be populous

settlements he had not the least doubt.

It only required to be known to be properly

appreciated. The journey there and back

 was not accomplished without considerable
 hardship. The ladies of the party, especially,
 felt the loss of the conveniences and comforts

 to which they had been accustomed. Had
 they taken an ample supply of food all
 would have been well. As it was, but for

 the little they did take, they must often
 have wanted. The rough young fellows on
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.           177

the cars would eat up all the food at the

refreshment stations (which were mostly rude
tents), and consequently those who wished

to preserve the courtesies of civilized life

had to want. But, considering the enormous

length of the journey, and the fact that it

was through an unpeopled region for the

most part, they fared tolerably. Not a

single member of the party regretted the

trip ; on the contrary they would not have

missed for a great deal the wonderful

experience which had been theirs.

The proceedings of the British Association

commenced on the 27th of August, Lord
Rayleigh, F.R.S., now scientific adviser to

the Trinity House, being the President, and

Sir Frederick Bramwell, F.R.S., presiding

over the mechanical section, before which
Sir James read a paper on " Improve

ments in Coast Signals." "At Montreal a

very interesting acquaintance, that was

afterwards  renewed in  England,"   says Miss
Douglass,                 with the   explorers
            " was made

Lieutenants Greeley and Ray, who had

just arrived there after their terrible

experiences in the Arctic regions." On the

2nd of September the party left for the

                                    N
            178 Life of

            meeting, at Philadelphia, of the American
            Association for the Advancement of Science,
           Sir James going by way of Lake George and
           the Hudson river to New York. Washington

          was afterwards visited, then New York again,

            whence they sailed for England by the
           White Star Line on the 15th of September.

              This was the first long holiday that Sir
            James ever had, and he gave himself up to
            the enjoyment of it with all the enthusiasm
           of his ardent nature. He carried with him,
            however, an observing eye, and a receptive
            mind, for whatever wonderful things there
            were to see in Canada and the United States,
            and notably displayed, on several occasions,

             his characteristic nerve and practicalness.
            Thus, when the party were once on board a
            lake steamer, a paraffin lamp was upset in their
            cabin, and the place set on fire ; but, before

           there was time for panic, Sir James had put
            out the flames with his overcoat. Another
            steamer, by which they were passengers,
           stranded on the banks of a river where she
           had gone for firewood. No efforts to get
            her off succeeded until he took the matter in

            hand, when she was safely floated. And,
           lastly, at a hotel where the party stayed for

^\
              
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  179

several days, he was impressed with the
inadequate means of escape provided in case

of fire, interviewed the manager, and made
suggestions which, if carried out, would
probably have prevented the sad loss of life

that occurred when the house was afterwards

entirely burned down.
   Sir James was also a governor of Dulwich

College, and, on the grounds of "distinction
in science," of University College, London.
His duties in the former capacity were

important, and most zealously and efficiently

discharged. The Rev. Canon Carver D.D.,

who held the office of head master of the

College for twenty-five years, during which

period, under his fostering care, it flourished

greatly, --the number of boys increasing in
that time from twelve to six hundred, --
thus writes of Sir James : " It was

certainly a remarkable testimony to the
high esteem in which he was held in
Dulwich (the place of his residence) that he
was chosen by the head and assistant masters
of the College as their representative upon
the Board of Governors of this great

foundation, which took office in 1883 for ten
years, under a new scheme of the Charity
1 80 Life of Sir James Nicholas Douglass.

Commissioners. He brought, it need scarcely
be said, to the duties of this new position
the good sense and intelligence, with the

scrupulous care and attention, which charac

terised his whole work in life. It is an

evidence of no little versatility of talent that
he was able so readily to adapt himself to the
discharge of duties for which the labours and
experience of his earlier years can have done

little to prepare him. His special efforts

were directed, at Dulwich, to the development
of the engineering side of the school ; and it
was under his advice and constant supervision
that the laboratory and class rooms of the
engineering department were constructed, and
fitted up with the necessary machinery and

apparatus for teaching. It is well known

how successful this branch of the instruction

given at Dulwich College has proved."

   It is unnecessary, in this place, to multiply

instances to prove, what has been so fully
shown throughout the course of this narrative,
viz : that Sir James Douglass did nothing in
a perfunctory manner, but, whatever task he

undertook, so performed it as if that had

been the one work which he was sent into the

world to accomplish.
         CHAPTER XVIII.

Sir James continued to discharge the duties

of his position at the Trinity House beyond

the usual age-limit for retirement, viz. : sixty-
five years, a special arrangement having, in

the interest of the service, been made with

that object. But an attack of paralysis, in

March 1892, incapacitated him for further

work, and his formal resignation of the office

he had so long, and so worthily, filled took

place in the ensuing autumn. The Elder

rMBerrge.rtehCtrhe"anrtlheaswt rAtoh.teeK,ceontnth,drioetiuxopgnrhesosfitnhhgeisirthheesiaer lct"rhegtraheraayd,t
led to " the cessation of his active and brilliant

career " at so much earlier a date than had

been     anticipated, and placed  upon   record
                                  the   ability,
" their    high appreciation of
energy and perseverance " which had been

displayed by him in carrying out, as their

engineer-in-chief, the important works with

which he had been entrusted, and their
1 82 Life of

" hearty acknowledgment of the many
benefits that had been conferred upon
n" aavcihgieavtieomnenatts."large" as the result of his

   Sir James partially, however, recovered his
health, the last years of his life having been
spent at Bonchurch, Isle of Wight. Yet he
was never, at any time after his first illness,
much more than the wreck of his former self,

--a wreck painful to contemplate. It is sad

enough to see the once strong and vigorous
frame wasted by the ravages of disease and
suffering. But, when this is so, the memory

of the beholder has to be vividly exercised, --
often no easy task, --before the full force of
the painful contrast can be felt. In Sir

James' case, the strength and the weakness
were visible together. There was the stalwart
body, the ruddy, weather-beaten countenance, '
as suggestive of health as formerly, with the
faltering gait, and all the other unmistakable
signs of helplessness, to show how terrible

was the change which he had undergone.

But the sufferer bore his affliction nobly. As

he had been a brave man in health, so, as

might have been expected, he was a patient
man in sickness ; for are not bravery and
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  183

patience but different manifestations of one
and the same virtue, viz. : courage ? He felt
that he had accomplished his life's work,
and submitted himself to the will of Providence

with a quiet, cheerful resignation that was

touching to witness. "We must not give

other people our sorrows to bear," he once
said to a member of his family who had

gently reproached him for hiding the pain he
was suffering. Fortunately for him he had,
throughout his life, amid much to distract
him from such a pursuit, sedulously cultivated
the domestic virtues. Thus, though possessed
of an iron constitution and an unconquerable

will, --though

                            " endued as with a sense
         And faculty for storm and turbulence," --

he was really, in all his family relationships,

the gentlest and homeliest of men. H is mother

used to say that when, before his marriage,
he lived under his parents' roof, she had no

need of a daughter, for he was just like one to
her. She was often an invalid, and James was
the most thoughtful of nurses. Nor was there
ever a more devoted husband. Miss Alice
Douglass writes : " My mother, who was
very delicate for a long time, was always his
184 Life of

first thought, and he was never really happy
away from her. She accompanied him

sometimes in his visits to the lighthouses,

and, when he was absent alone, the

morning letter never failed, nor did he ever
return without some little trifle." The same

chhigahralyctecor m: p"etIenntevpeern  thus depicts  his parental
                                       recollect my    father out

of temper, or even moody and self-occupied.

Little time as he had to devote himself to his

children, he managed to be completely one

with them. No hours of our day were quite

so full of fun and happiness as those he

spent with us. When we came down in the

morning, till he left for town, he was not

allowed a moment alone. Breakfast was a

ceaseless merry chatter, chiefly about our
doings. He entered thoroughly into all

our fun, able to sympathise as fully with the

children in the nursery as with the elder ones,

and, although never checking our talk, yet

making us, unconsciously, be at our best, for

we knew that quarrels, or unkind judgments,

would hurt him. Little time as he had

before leaving for London, he always read
prayers and sang a hymn with us. In order

to allow for this, breakfast was at seven in
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  185

summer and half past in winter. Sunday
was our especial holiday, for then we had
him to ourselves, except for one hour in the

afternoon, when our mother would insist on

his taking a short rest. When fine we spent
as much time as possible in the garden ; but,
wherever we were, he would always keep us
merry or interested. During the day
he liked us all to repeat to him the collect

for that Sunday and a hymn ; this was done

even by the big sons home from college,
because father liked it. Prizes played a great

part in his educational system, but they were
not promised, so the work was not done for
them, but were only given at any time, that

no one should feel jealousy. Improvement in
some branch or other was generally discovered
in each of us, so that all would feel equally

cheered. I remember my mother often

looking up from her book, herself laughing,
to say, " James ! you are really worse than the
children," and, certainly, none of us entered
into games with more zest. Perhaps the
secret of it was that, whatever he was doing,

that, for the moment, completely absorbed
him. This, probably, accounted for the love
he won from all. He would listen to his
1 86 Life of

companion for the time being, with great
interest, and, if there was any way in which

he could render assistance, it would be

done, even at the sacrifice of his valuable

time." This is a charming picture, the

beauty of which would be marred by

any addition from the hand of a stranger,

who has, indeed, no right to intermeddle

with such things.

   It was merciful that the paralysis from

which Sir James suffered had not affected
his intellect, except that any prolonged
mental effort wearied him. He was thus

able to enjoy, almost up to the last, the

society of his family and friends, and many
of those simple domestic pleasures which,
in health, had been so precious to him,

also the delights of desultory reading, --of

which his busy career had previously largely
deprived him, -- his flowers, and his live

stock, which latter is thus described in a

"Iletter he wrote during the early stages of
his illness :  presume that you have heard
of my last pet, --a baby grey parrot from

the Congo, carefully selected by a friend

for talking qualities, only two months

old. So far it is a very sweet-tempered
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  187

creature, and promises to talk soon.

I have now plenty of company, Rollo (that

was the dog) twenty-seven fowls, three
canaries, two parrots, and a very prettily-

marked and sweet-tempered cat. I fancy

you cannot boast of such a family." Then,

when he had left Dulwich and settled at

Bonchurch, there was the sight, which he
loved so well, of the glorious sea whose
waves rippled, or thundered, just below the
beautiful grounds of his house, and of the

stately ships which, owing in no small
measure to his own most useful labours,

were being guided in safety across the
trackless deep. Often, too, Lady Douglass
would take him for pleasant drives about the
lovely island, a favourite resort at such

times being St. Catherine's lighthouse, where,
amid the electrical machinery and appliances
which he had himself installed, and in the

company of the engineer-in-charge, Mr. H. C.

Millett, for whom he had a warm regard, he
spent many a happy hour. The sorrow and

suffering which marked the closing scenes

of his life were, therefore, not without

substantial alleviations, for which he was

ever grateful, dwelling little on the
188 Life of

blessings he had lost, but much on those

that were yet his.

He died, rather suddenly, after another

attack of paralysis, on the 19th of June 1898,
in his seventy-second year, and is buried in

the little cemetery at Bonchurch.

With regard to his qualities as a man,

it may be said that, highly gifted as he was

in intellect, remarkable for shrewd common

sense, and possessed of business capacities

of a high order, he was, in private intercourse,

singularly simple and unworldly, a special

favourite, therefore, with children, who were

always attracted to him. In bearing and

mhaadnnheerso, nlyhethwe acshaerxitcyeedthinagt ly"   modest, nor

                                                     is not puffed
                                  " thinketh no evil."
u"pT,"hosbeut     that    which    my temptations, so
               have     not been

there is no merit in not having yielded to

them," he would say, in deprecation of any
comparison of himself with one whose

conduct had been the subject of unfavour

able comment. Moreover, though disinclined

to take lax, sentimental views of things,

especially where the principles of right and

wrong were concerned, nor accustomed to

wear his heart upon his sleeve, he always

"V

                 L
         Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  189

knew how to season justice with mercy.
Mr. Alfred Bache, who has already been
quoted, thus writes on this point : " To

myself it seemed that his spirit and action

on various occasions brought to light, and

illustrated, a fresh interpretation of the

familiar adage 'be just before you are
generous ' :-- namely that, while it is a

matter of duty that justice should precede

generosity, it is no less, but equally, a

matter of duty that generosity should follow

justice." Further, while simple in his tastes

and abstemious in his habits, --for he hated
every form of luxuriousness, --he gave and

lent with prodigality. Lastly, he was

p"eHrsiosnalulyndoaubmteadn  of the highest character.
                              influence with others,"
                             Forrest, --so capable an
says Mr.    --Ja"mmeasy
authority,                   be ascribed to the recti

tude of his conduct in all the relations of

life, to unswerving honesty of purpose which

made his word his bond, to the fearless

expression of his opinions when once care
fully formed, --all qualities which won for

him unbounded respect as a God-fearing
      "
man      relative  to        which latter phrase it
     ;

may be observed that Sir James' piety was
190 Life of

sincere, if (or rather because) unobtrusive ;
for, though he spoke little' on the subject of

religion, he had none the less on that

account, -- nay, rather, had all the more,

seeing he was not accustomed to dissipate

it in words. Of course, he was not without

his failings ; but these were small, while his
virtues were great.

   Coming now to his official merits, which,

after all, are the proper subject, as they are
the main justification, of this biography, it
should be stated that the qualities, in
addition to the dash and daring, the inventive
ness and resource, of which mention has

already been fully made, that chiefly
distinguished Sir James Douglass were,

   First : A high and chivalrous sense of

duty. As he had often risked his life in the
discharge of the arduous labours of his calling,

so he was always prepared to do so ; and,
early and late, devoted himself to his work with
an enthusiasm that was quite infectious. Not
less faithfully than forcibly does Mr. Kenward,
who has been quoted in former chapters, thus

write of his old friend : " He never spared
himself. He would rush from south to north,
east to west, with scant time for food or
              Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  191

repose. He would face dangers on sea and
land, climb ladders, scale rocks and lantern

tops, watch in light-rooms the burning of his

admirable lamps, and the movements of the

complex clockwork, and in short inspect and

control the abounding details of a great

lighthouse as a matter of duty and loyalty to

the Elder Brethren and to the public service."

And Professor Tyndall, with whom Sir James

was so long and so closely associated in

official matters, often expressed his astonish

m" eYnotuart  the wondrous   activity of his colleague.
              indefatigable   engineer," and similar

phrases, repeatedly occur in that eminent

man's reports to the Trinity House during

the period that he and Sir James worked
together. While Canon Carver,
knew the latter intimately, has said :      who also

                                            " He was

one, as it appeared to me, who never asked

whether the work before him was specially

agreeable or congenial, or such as might

promote his personal advancement ; it was

enough for him that it was a duty, and he

threw himself into its performance with

all the force of his strong will and resolute

energy, and his unsparing self- negation."

The sudden collapse of Sir James' health, at
192 Life of

a time when it appeared to be in its usual
virile condition, was only the natural result
of the ceaseless mental and physical strain to
which he subjected himself. In other matters,
too, a conscientious zeal for the interests of
his employers ever actuated him. He had,
in the execution of the important works with
which he was entrusted, the practical
disbursing of very large sums of public
money, and never spared himself, or
allowed his subordinates to spare them
selves, any personal trouble to ensure the
utmost possible economy, combined with

efficiency. It is true that his life's efforts
were crowned with success. The Corporation

whom he so well served appreciated and
liberally rewarded him ; an easy competence,

if not riches, came to him ; many learned and

distinguished societies enrolled his name
among their members ; his Queen honoured
him ; but he would have been the same

 zealous and faithful servant had Fortune

frowned, instead of thus smiling, on him ;
for he loved and followed Duty for herself,
 not merely for the outward and visible
 prizes with which she sometimes rewards

 men.
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.            193

    Secondly : Indomitable energy and force of

character. His concentration of purpose

was, indeed, remarkable. Whatsoever his

hand found to do, he truly did with his might.

Obstacles, that would have daunted an

ordinary man, only stimulated him to greater

exertion, for he held, with Emerson, that
such things " exist to be surmounted " ; and

to undertake a task was, in his case, to

accomplish it. To him, indeed, the words

with which Dr. Johnson concludes     his life of
Milton are singularly appropriate :  " Difficul

ties vanished at his touch ; he was born for

whatever is arduous."

As a chief, he exacted hard work from

those who served under him, but then he

worked harder himself, and, if intolerant of

carelessness and stupidity, he treasured no

resentment, but, having censured the offender,

never afterwards mentioned the incident.

   Of course, he did not escape criticism.

There were those who, while acknowledging

his many great qualities, thought him, some
times, to be wanting in breadth of perception ;

to be biased in favour of his own views ; prone

to see things only in one light. And, to a

certain extent, such persons judged correctly.

                                     o
194 Life of

But his lack of an " open mind " on questions
of procedure was after, not before, his decision

was taken. In arriving at an opinion as to

the best course to adopt, in given circum
stances, he was careful and patient in the
extreme, collecting with unwearied diligence
all necessary data to enable him to judge
aright ; but, having completed that process,
he was far too wise a man to fritter away his
energy, and destroy his usefulness, by
considering, when the time had come for
action, whether, after all, there might not be
some better way of attaining his purpose.

He did not want to find, and would not
discuss, a better way, now that it was too late
to walk in it. So some people said he was
" narrow." In this restricted sense, he was

narrow ; but therein lay one of the chief
secrets of his strength.

    In conclusion : lighthouses are being, and
will be, constructed though Sir James
Douglass is no longer alive to build them ;
that important branch of the public service

to which his life was devoted performs, and
will perform, its beneficent labours without
him ; but the works which he carried out, the

improvements which he wrought, for the
Sir James Nicholas Douglass.  195

protection of life and property at sea, will
long survive as monuments of his genius,
and the example of his pluck and daring, his
zeal and energy, prove an inspiration to

lighthouse builders yet unborn.

THE END.

W. P. Gkiffith & Sons Ltd., Prujcan Square, Old Bailey, E.C., Printers.
 :  Ci .

        r**-
           Illlllllllllllll

                              3 2044 024 423 675
    This book should be returned to
the Library on or before the last date

stamped below.

    A fine is incurred by retaining it

beyond the specified time.
    Please return promptly.

    «>. ""j,JW ".'JfW,M"

[

