Thomas Henry Huxley, by Edward Clodd ...

Clodd, Edward, 1840-1930.
New York : Dodd, Mead and co., 1902.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433082376009

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
19
Thomas Henry Huxley
                                     /

         Modern English Writers

MATTHEW ARNOLD . . . Professor Saintsbury.

R. L. STEVENSON . . . . L. Cope Cornford.

JOHN RUSKIN  Mrs. Meynell.

TENNYSON     Andrew Lang.

GEORGE ELIOT . . . . A. T. Quiller-Couch.

BROWNING     C. H. Herford.

FROUDE       John Oliver Hobbes.
HUXLEY       Edward Clodd.

THACKERAY    Charles Whibley.

DICKENS      W. E. Henley.

*#* Other Volumes will be announced in due course.

                                                    !
THOMAS HENRY
     HUXLEY

                                         BY

                  EDWARD CLODD

                                                            \
                 Who saw life steadily, and saw it whole.

                                                        --Matthew Arnold.

                       NEW YORK
          DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY

                                                 1902
     THE NEW YORK

 PUBLIC LIBRARY
   M iMRrLENOX AND

lTILDEN FOUNDATIONS
     it isa*

              Copyrigfit, 1902

By Dodd, Mead & Company.

     First Edition Published

               March, iqos.
            INSCRIBED TO

        Mrs. Huxley

WITH DEEP RESPECT AND REGARD
r
              Prefatory Note

   In the preparation of this book there have been
large drafts from the materials supplied by Mr.

Leonard Huxley in the very admirable Life and
Letters of his father. The foot-note references to
that work are sufficiently denoted by the omission
of its title.

   For the convenience of readers who may not
possess the original editions of Huxley's writings,
the references to them are, for the most part, cited
from the Collected Essays.
            Contents

........II. The DiscovererChronologyPAGE

                                   xi

I. The Man                             1

                                       64
....IV. The Controversialist* . . . 158
III. The Interpreter                   97

V. The Constructor              224

Note on the Doctr1ne of the Un

knowable                        246

Index                           249
r

                                                                                                                     -
               Chronology

1825. Born at Ealing (4th May).
1841. Assistant to doctor at Rotherhithe.

1842.  Student at Charming Cross Hospital Medical School.
1845.       B. and Gold Medallist for Anatomy and Physiology at
               University of London.
1845.
       Discovered membrane of human hair known as " Huxley's
              layer."

1846. Entered Naval Medical Service.

1846. Appointed assistant-surgeon of the surveying ship Rattle

       snake.

1849. Published memoir on the Family of the Medusa.

1850. Returned to England : granted leave ashore to work out re
               sults of voyage.

1851. Elected Fellow of the Royal Society.

1852. Received Gold Medal of Royal Society.
1853. Further leave ashore refused : struck off the Navy List.
1853. Published article on the Cell Theory.
1854. Appointed Professor of Natural History and Palaeontology

                 in Royal School of Mines, and Curator of Fossils in
                  Museum of Practical Geology.

1855. Married Henrietta Anne Heathorn, of Sydney.
1856. Visited Switzerland with Tyndall.

1857. Published paper on The Structure and Motion of Glaciers.

1857. Appointed Examiner in Physiology and Comparative Anat
                 omy in University of London.

1857. Appointed Fullerian Professor of Comparative Anatomy at
                 the Royal Institution.

1858. Appointed Croonian Lecturer.

               xi
Xll HUXLEY.

1859. Published Croonian lecture on Origin of the Vertebrate
                 Skull.

1859. Reviewed the Origin of Species in the Times (26th Decem

1859.          ber).                                                                           (debate
1859.  Appointed Secretary of the Geological Society.
1860.                                                                                          Animal
       Published Oceanic Hydrozoa.
1861.
       Attended British Association Meeting at Oxford

               with Bishop Wilberforce).

       Lectured on Relation of Man to the rest of the

               Kingdom at Edinburgh and London.

1862. Elected Hunterian Professor at the Royal College of

1863.          Surgeons.
1864.
       Published Man's Place in Nature.

       Appointed on Royal Commission on Sea Fisheries.

       Note.  -- Huxley served        beStcwieeenntif1ic86E2dauncda1ti8o8n4,onettce. n  Royal  Commissions
                       on Fisheries.

1866. Received degree of LL.D. Edinburgh.

1866. Published Lessons in Elementary Physiology.

1868. Elected President of the Ethnological Society.

1868. Lectured on the Physical Basis ofLife.
1868. Published memoirs on the Classification of Birds and on

                  Intermediate Animals between Birds and Reptiles.
1869. Elected President of the Geological Society.

1869. Joined the Metaphysical Society.
1869. Published Introduction to the Classification of Animals.
1870. Elected President of British Association Meeting at Liver

                    pool.

1870. Elected member of the first School Board for London.
1870. Published Lay Sermons.
187 1. Appointed Secretary of the Royal Society.
187 1. Broke down in health; visited Egypt.
1872. Elected Lord Rector of Aberdeen University.
1873. Published Critiques and Addresses.
1874. Lectured on Animals as Automata at British Association

                  Meeting, Belfast.

1874.  Lectured on Natural History as deputy to Sir Wyville
               Thomson at Edinburgh.
1875.
1875.  Took active part in controversy on Vivisection.
       Published Practical Instruction in Elementary Biology.
                    CHRONOLOGY.                           xiii

1876.  Visited America.
1877.
       Published American Addresses; Physiography; and a
1878.
1879.        Manual of the Anatomy of Invertebrated Animals.
1880.
       Published Hume.

       Received degree of LL.D. Cambridge.
       Lectured on The Coming of Age of the ' Origin of Species '

               at the Royal Institution.

1880. Published The Crayfish; an Introduction to the Science of
              Zoology ; and Introductory Science Primer.

1881. Appointed Inspector of Salmon Fisheries.

1881. Became, on departmental changes at the School of Mines,
                Professor of Biology and Dean of the Royal College of

          Science.

188 1. Published Science and Culture.

1883.  Elected President of the Royal Society.
1883.  Delivered the Rede Lecture at Cambridge (on The Pearly

1884.         Nautilus and Evolution).
1885.  Further breakdown in health.
1885.  Received degree of D.C.L. Oxford.
1886.  Retired on pension from all official appointments.
1888.  Began series of papers on Evolution of Theology.
       Elected a Trustee of the British Museum.

1888. Received Copley Medal of the Royal Society.

1889.  Removed to Eastbourne.                             and
1891.
1892.  Published Social Diseases and Worse Remedies.
1892.  Published Essays on Controverted Questions.
1893.  Made a Privy Councillor.
       Delivered Romanes Lecture at Oxford (on Evolution

1893-94.    Ethics).
          Reissued, with rearrangement, the articles and lectures

            in Lay Sermons, etc., in nine volumes entitled Collected

1894.           Essays.
1894.  Received Darwin Medal of the Royal Society.
1895.  Attended British Association Meeting, Oxford.

       Died 29th June. Buried at Finchley, 4th July.
HUXLEY

i

THE MAN

   Thomas Henry Huxley, the seventh and youngest
child of George and Rachel Huxley, was born on the

4th May, 1825, at Ealing, then a village separated by
stretches of open country from London. His father,

who was assistant-master in a semi-public school

there, is described by him as a man " rather too easy

going for this wicked world," yet with a certain tenac

ity of character which, since he inherited
         a                                  Huxley

                       it,

                           It

                                           is
dryly says, "unfriendly observers sometimes call
obstinacy." This, together with faculty for draw

ing, constituted the father's legacy to the son.

of his mother that he declares himself "physically

and mentally " the child, " even down to peculiar
movements of the hands " her agile mind, with its
   ;
                       a
rapid arrival at conclusions, remained, he says, the

perilous but most prized part of his " inheritance of

mother-wit." His love for her was passion.
2 HUXLEY

   But his boyhood was a cheerless time.  Reversing

Matthew Arnold's sunnier memories : --

        "No rigorous teachers seized his youth,

               And purged its faith, and tried its fire,
          Shewed him the high, white star of truth,

               There bade him gaze, and there aspire."

He told Charles Kingsley that he was " kicked into

the world a boy without guide or training, or with

worse than none," 1 and, contrasting Herbert Spen

cer's happier lot, says that he " had two years of a

Pandemonium of a school (between eight and ten),
and after that neither help nor sympathy in any in
tellectual direction till he reached manhood." 2 On

the dreary week-days he was flung among boys of

low type, and on the drearier Sundays he was taken

to church, where the preacher's allusions to infidels

left on his mind the impression that " such folks be

longed to the criminal classes." When he was about

ten, the break-up of the Ealing school sent the

family, literally, to Coventry, where, in the irony of

fate, the shiftless father became manager of a

savings' bank. The daughters took to school-keep

ing, and the boys were left free to browse among the

remnants of the home library. Huxley was pos

sessed of that love of reading which, in Gibbon's

famous words, he " would not have exchanged for the

1 I. 220.                                 » II. 145.
               THE MAN                                                              3

treasures of India." From boyhood to old age his

tastes were omnivorous, ranging from science and

philosophy to the last new fiction. Dr. Johnson said
that Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy took him out of
bed two hours before his usual time; Hutton's

aGeology kept Huxley in      with blanket pinned round

                             of it,

                                                                         a
his shoulders. At twelve he had read Hamilton's

essay On the Philosophy      the Unconditioned, with the
result, he tells us, of stamping on his mind " the

strong conviction that on even the most solemn and
important of questions, men are apt to take cunning

phrases for answers." Carlyle's translations from the

German moved him to teach himself                                           language

knowledge of which was to be of the utmost service

in his life-work. Of the influence which Sartor

"ItResartus had upon him, he says,      led me to know

that deep sense of religion was compatible with the

entire absence of theology."1

   During this formative period his interest ranged
from speculations on the absolute basis of matter and

the crystallisation of carbon to the injustice of com

pelling Dissenters to pay church rates. In the boy's
quotation from Lessing, " hate all people who want
                         is I
to found sects," there       the spirit of the man who
said that " science commits suicide when
                                                                            adopts
                                          it
                                                            a

creed." In     scheme for               " classification of all
            a            '

                           I.

                                     a
                         220.
4 HUXLEY

knowledge" written in a fragmentary journal, kept

from his fifteenth to his seventeenth year, there was

the expression of that passion for general principles,

for search after unity at the core of things, which

ruled all his observation and speculation, and which

is the salvation of a man from the evil of specialism.

   " Thus to be a Seeker is to be of the best sect next

to a Finder," said Oliver Cromwell ; and of himself

Huxley, who at fifty-three learned Greek that he

Imight read Aristotle  in the original, wrote three years
before his death, "     have always been, am, and pro

pose to remain a mere scholar." So wrote Michael

Angelo in old age, " Imparo ancora " -- I am learning

still.

   Huxley's bent, like that, it may be added, of both

Herbert Spencer and the late W. B. Carpenter, was

towards mechanical engineering, and this was mani

fest in his life-work. For his interest  centred in the
                                         the adaptation
" architectural part " of organisms, in

of apparatus to function, and in whatever evidenced

" unity of plan in the thousands and thousands of

diverse living constructions." 1 Whatever he worked

at, he " visualised clearly " by diagram or map or

picture.                                 curiosity about
    He paid a lifelong penalty for his   When he was

the mechanism of the human body.

                       1I.7.
                    THE MAN                         5

fourteen he was taken by some student friends to a

post-mortem, the result of which was an attack of

blood-poisoning. To this he        attributed the   " hypo
chondriacal dyspepsia " which     afflicted him to
                                                    the end

of his life. Although engineering was his hobby,

medicine, at the start, was his destiny. At sixteen,

on the removal of his family to Rotherhithe, he was

placed as assistant to a Dr. Chandler as a preliminary

to " walking the hospitals." Many of the patients

were in more need of food than physic, a condition

of things which set Huxley wondering " why the

masses did not sally forth and get a few hours' eating

and drinking and plunder to their heart's content

before the police could stop and hang a few of

them." 1

This early contact with the grim realities of the

social problem gave him authority to be heard upon

the economic and educational questions in which his

interest deepened with his years, and to indicate to the

people how they may alone work out their own salva

tion.

I believe in the fustian [he said], and can talk to it
better than to any amount of gauze and Saxony.
        . I want
that                the working   classes to   understand
       Science and  her ways are  great facts
                                               for them --

that   physical virtue is the base of  aalnl dotahlel r,theanrdestth--at
they
       are to be clean and temperate

                    1 I. 16.
6 HUXLEY

not because fellows in black with white ties tell them
so, but because these are plain and patent laws of na
ture which they must obey under penalties.1

   Leaving Mr. Chandler, he was apprenticed to his
brother-in-law, Dr. Scott (Huxley's two sisters had

married doctors), and began study for the matricula

tion examination of the University of London. He

failed in this, but had compensation in winning the

silver medal of the Pharmaceutical Society, while the

standard reached by his brother James and himself
secured them free scholarships in the medical school
of Charing Cross Hospital. In 1845 he passed his

M. B. at the University of London and made his first

discovery in detecting a hitherto unknown membrane

at the root of the human hair. It is known as

" Huxley's layer." The next year he acted on the

suggestion of a fellow-student, Mr. (now Sir Joseph)
Fayrer, and applied to Sir William Burnet, then Di
rector of the Medical Service, for a naval appoint
ment. Sir William returned his visiting card " with

the frugal reminder" that he might "probably find it
useful on some other occasion," but the interview

gained him entry on the books of Nelson's old ship,
the Victory, for duty at Haslar Hospital. Then came
a turn of the tide which, not without ebb, led on to
fortune, at least to the fortune -- never, despite the

                                'I. 13&
            THE MAN    7

discreditable insinuation in Punch,1 a commercial one

--.which Huxley coveted.
   Owen Stanley, son of the Bishop of Norwich and

brother of Dean Stanley, was in command of the

Rattlesnake, a 28-gun frigate commissioned to survey
the intricate passages within the barrier-reef skirting
the eastern shores of Australia, between which colony

and the mother country a shorter sea-passage was de

manded by the growing trade. Captain Stanley

wanted an assistant-surgeon, and on the recommenda

tion of Sir John Richardson, the famous "Arctic ex
plorer, Huxley was given the post. It was the best

possible apprenticeship for the work which lay, un

suspected, before him --the solution of the problems
of organology, and the indicating of their far-reach
ing significance. Life had its origin in water, and

therein the biologist finds his most suggestive material.

Darwin and Joseph Hooker had passed through a like

curriculum --the one in 1831, and the other in 1839.

   The Rattlesnake left Plymouth on the 12th De

cember, 1846, two years before Bates and Wallace

sailed for exploration of the Amazons. It was a time

of preparation, each only vaguely knowing to what

ends he worked, but in his measure contributing an

swer to the question whether species were mutable or

permanent.

            J II. 26.
8 HUXLEY

   The conditions on board the Rattlesnake contrasted
ill with the luxurious equipment of exploring ships
since her time. She was a man-of-war of the old

class ; her seams were leaky ; the berths swarmed

with cock-roaches, and the biscuits with weevils. The

Admiralty refused to supply any books, and in the ab
sence of proper apparatus for sifting the contents of

the dredge, Huxley had to adapt a wire meat-cover.

The ship carried an official naturalist, whose chief care

was to collect objects for museums, leaving to Hux

ley's willing hands the dissection and examination of

the specimens brought up from the deep sea.

The first long stay was made at Sydney, where

Huxley met his future wife, Henrietta Annie Heath-

orn. For her he was " to serve longer and harder

than Jacob thought to   serve for Rachel," of whom,
in immortal words, the
                        poet-chronicler says, " seven

years seemed unto him but a few days for the love he

had to her." 1 Huxley had his reward in forty years

of the closest and most helpful fellowship.

The nature and import of the work accomplished

by him during the voyage, which came to an end in
November, 1849, will be dealt with in the next chap
ter. Here it suffices to say that while sundry reports
on marine creatures, which were sent to the Linnean

Society, were pigeon-holed, better fortune attended a

1 Genesis xxix. 20.
THE MAN              9

paper on the Medusae or jelly-fish family, transmitted

to the Royal Society through Bishop Stanley, whose

admirable History of Birds has survived his episcopal
charges. It was promptly published, and was the

warrant of Huxley's election into the Society at the

early age of twenty-six. Thus far he could have no

quarrel with bishops.

   Back in England, " equipped as a perfect zoologist
and keen-sighted ethnologist " (the words are Vir-

chow's), Huxley obtained for a time the privilege of

appointment for " particular service," which enabled

him to work out on shore the results of the voyage.

But nearly five years of suspense and struggle were

to pass before he secured a permanent appointment

of £200 per annum, one-half of the modest

maximum he desired.  Writing to his sister in 1850

he says: --

 ...I have no ambition, except as means to an end, and

Itmithaairtsryemnudyponnisa. tutrhee--pbosustesisfAioInwhoaordfkear£4sI.u0mf0fiucisaet-nyteaalwrinacyIosmwbeoeu--ltdo

never let my name appear to anything did or ever

shall do. It would be glorious to be a voice working

in secret, and free from all those personal motives that
have actuated the best.1

   He was in the front rank of anatomists; in 1852
his society conferred upon him the Royal Medal,

                                      >I. 62.
10 HUXLEY

which, for the £50 worth of gold therein, he sold
eleven years after, to assist a brother's widow ; he was
deluged with invitations to dinners and soirees while

not earning enough to pay his cab-fare. He kept
fragile body and self-reliant soul together by writing,
lecturing, and translating. Toronto, Aberdeen, Cork,
King's College, each in turn rejected him as he sought
a professorship of natural history, and he had thoughts

of trying his luck as a doctor in Australia, if only to

be near his sweetheart. Domestic cares, his mother's

death, and his father's serious illness, added to the

gloom of these five dreary years. But though his

circumstances ran low, his ideals soared high.                                     In the

letter of 1850 to his sister he says : --

I don't know and I don't care whether I shall ever
Ibe what is called a great man.   will leave
                                and distinct    m--y                               mark
somewhere, and it shall be clear

T. H. H. his mark --

and free from the abominable blur of cant, humbug,

apnredsesnet lfw-soereldki--ngthwathiicshtossuarryo,usnudpsposeivnegrytthhiantg I  in  this
                                                                                       not
                                                                                   am

already unconsciously tainted myself, a result of which

I have a morbid dread.1

At the end of 1853  Admiralty commanded him

to join the ship Illustrious; he refused, and pakl the

penalty in being struck ofF the Navy List. But, as

he cheerily said, " there is always a Cape Horn in

                    1 I. 63.
THE MAN  II

one's life," and, " not without a good deal of damage

to spars and rigging," he rounded it. In July, 1854,
on the transfer of his friend Edward Forbes to Edin

burgh, he was appointed Professor of Natural History
at the School of Mines with a salary of £200, which,

soon after, was doubled on his becoming naturalist to

the Geological Survey. The next year Miss Heath-
orn's parents brought her to England. Her health
was so bad that a famous doctor gave her only six
months to live. But the faculty differed; Huxley
took the brighter view, and wrote thus to Hooker on
the 1 1th July :--

   I terminate my Baccalaureate and take my degree

of M.A.trimony (isn't that atrocious ?) on Saturday,
July 21.

   When he was appointed to the School of Mines he

told Sir Henry De la Beche that he " didn't care for

fossils," the mechanism of the living animal alone in
teresting him. But it came to pass that during his
thirty-one years' tenure of his post the larger part of
his work was palaeontological. And well that this so
happened, because, when the battle over organic evo
lution was fought, Huxley was able to adduce out of
his treasury of knowledge a mass of evidence from
the fossil-yielding rocks which, supplemented by the

evidence from embryology, put the theory of " descent
12 HUXLEY

with modification " on a foundation which cannot be

shaken.

   Routine work leaves little, if any, time for original

investigation. Administrative detail filled the larger
part of each day with Huxley; his heart was centred
in schemes for the diffusion of science ; the arrange
ment and cataloguing of the contents of the Jermyn
Street Museum was a labour of years ; he gave, un
grudgingly, help in forming other public as well as
private collections, which, in his own words,

should be large enough to illustrate the most impor
tant truths of natural history, but not so extensive as
to weary and confuse ordinary visitors.

But with Huxley this, although an essential, was a
secondary, part of the business ; with the organising
of materials there went pari passu instruction in their
nature and meaning, involving courses of lectures and
series of articles, both technical and popular, while
other public appointments made their inroads on his

time. This would seem enough to exhaust the day,

and when it is remembered that all which he under
took, paid and unpaid alike, was done despite frequent
breakdown from dyspepsia and allied troubles, the
marvel grows that he found a moment for original
research, or for the wide and varied reading which,

fortifying him on every side, enabled him " to put to
flight                          THE MAN                   *3
                                           in science,
        the armies " of the obscurantists

ethics, and theology.

   Work was his passion, method was his salvation ;

he took care of the minutes and the hours took care
of themselves. And yet, like Gibbon, who wrote --

While every one looks on me as a prodigy of appli

cation, I know myself how strong a propensity I have

to indolence,

we find Huxley accusing himself of an ingrained

laziness.1

   On the last night of 1856, while waiting for the
birth of his first child, he made this entry in his

journal :

   1856-7-8 must still be " Lehrjahre " to complete

training in principles of Histology, Morphology,
Physiology, Zoology, and Geology by Monographic

...Work in each department, 1860 will then see me

eftwaeiterihrjlalelyhrrgelroooo"fukn;tdhfeoeadsrnwedaabrndwrdainttohcrehfaeitfdsht.yeeefnocroomrapntrwyehesenpnteysIcniviayeel 1a8rps6vu'0ires"wuIsiMtsmemiasinyy-
training will give me, I think it will be possible in

that time to give a new and healthier direction to all

Biological Science. To smite all humbugs, however

big, to give a nobler tone to science ; to set an ex

ample of abstinence from petty personal controversies,
and of toleration for everything but lying ; to be in
different as to whether the work is recognised as mine
or not, so long as it is done : are these my aims ?
1860 will show.

                                                  1 1. 268.
·4 HUXLEY

   Half-past ten at night. Waiting for my child. I

seem to fancy it the pledge that all these things shall

be.                              twelve.  Thank God.

    Born five minutes before
New- Year's Day, 1857.1

   On the 20th September, 1860, a year that was to

" show " so much, there was made the last entry in

the journal, telling what lifelong sorrow fell upon a

great and tender soul.

And the same child, our Noel, our first-born, after

being for nearly four years our delight and our joy,

was carried ofF by scarlet fever in forty-eight hours.

This day week he and I had a great romp together.
On Friday his restless head, with its bright blue eyes

and tangled     golden hair, tossed  all day     upon his
                Saturday night, the  fifteenth,
pillow. On                                       I carried

him here into my study, and laid his cold still body
      where I write.    Here too, on Sunday
here  his mother and I  to that holy leave-taking.  night,
came

twfhilhlaeMandt.ywstabasoInydsisaniysamgbhooyenvaeemr,t;iinlIydb,fueatwenldhinethwnaaitthIhmoiugywthrefoabrtnietcateynfrdonhueabsrssety--bteeeareArnsmsefeanugsnleo,

so let it be.2

   In a very remarkable letter, written at this time to

Charles Kingsley in reply to one setting forth the
warrant for belief in immortality, the attitude of
Huxley from his youth upwards towards the current
theology is shown clearly.3 He sees no justification
for the belief ; the arguments in its favour are to his

'I. 151.                I. 152.           » I. 217-222.
                          THE MAN                           15

mind " delusive and mischievous," and there, since

his was not the spirit which denies, he leaves the

matter. The letter contains the already-quoted re
mark that Sartor Resartus led him to knowledge of
the non-dependence of religion on theology, religion

meaning, as he says elsewhere, simply the reverence

and love for the ethical ideal, and the desire to realise

that ideal in life, which every man ought to feel. 1

He adds :--

   Science and her methods gave me a resting-place
independent of authority and tradition. Love opened
up to me a view of the sanctity of human nature, and
impressed me with a deep sense of responsibility.

   In the chapter on " The Everlasting No " in Sartor,
Carlyle had said :--

   After all the nameless woes that Inquiry, which for
me, what it is not always, was genuine love of Truth,

had wrought me, I nevertheless still loved Truth and

bate no jot of my allegiance to her.

In that allegiance Huxley never wavered :--

If wife and child, and name and fame were all lost
to me, one after another, still I would not lie.
     . The longer I live, the more obvious it is to
                                   act of a man's  life is
me   that  the    m"oIst   sacred                  to be    to say
and   to   feel,          believe  such and such            true."
All the greatest rewards and all the heaviest penalties
of existence cling about that act. The universe is

                  1 Collected Essays, v. p. 249.
l6 HUXLEY

one and the same throughout; and if the condition
of my success in unravelling some little difficulty of
anatomy or physiologyI
                                                  that shall rigorously re
                            is,

                                I
fuse to put faith in that which does not rest on

sufficient evidence, cannot believe that the great
mysteries of existence will be laid open to me on

other terms.1

    Huxley summed up the whole matter in his Rec
torial Address to the students of Aberdeen University

" Veracity the heart of morality." His references

to the formative influences on his life in the letter to
                  is
                                             by

                                      I

                                                                     by
                                                                              a

                                                                                                                                           :
Kingsley are prefaced                             the statement that his

neglected boyhood had been followed                   profligate
manhood. His words are, " confess to my shame

that few men have drank deeper of all kinds of sin

than I." Commenting on this in his review of the

"LifFeranaknlyd,  Letters,  Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer says,
                    do not
                            believe word of it." And those
a

    I

                        a
                                          ;a
who knew Huxley in any degree of intimacy will

agree with him. Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer adds --
                                                      2
In rather serious conversation                    aI         :once had with
him, he spoke of period in his life when he might
have taken to evil courses but he did not give me             ;

the smallest reason to suppose that in the retrospect
he saw more than the existence of possible crevasse

in his path into which he might have fallen.

The truth that we have here the language of ex
                  is

                                               s
aggeration born of the desolation of the moment the

lI. 217.                                          Nature, 13th June, 1901, p. 146.
             THE MAN                          17

" troops of follies and errors " 1 of youth refracted

through the medium of tears. It is the language of

Augustine's Confessions ; of Bunyan's Grace Abound
ing ; and of the

many excellent persons whose moral character from
boyhood to old age has been free from any stain dis
cernible to their fellow-creatures, who have, in their

autobiographies or diaries, applied to themselves, and
doubtless with sincerity, epithets as severe as could be
applied to Titus Oates or Mrs. Brownrigg.2

   In acknowledging a birthday letter from one of his
daughters, Huxley hopes that his own imperfections
may make him deal the more gently with those of
others. He adds that he has little toleration for the

"just man who needed no repentance," and whose
smugly correct family circle " was perhaps as the in
terior of an ice-pail." 3 Walter Bagehot remarks
that " in the greatest cases scientific men have been
calm men. There is a coldness in their fame. We

think of Euclid as of pure ice ; we admire Newton as
we admire the Peak of Teneriffe." 4 The statement

is too sweeping; it has no application to Huxley, in
whom was neither coldness nor detachment. He was

hot-tempered ; now and again he was austere to a

degree approaching severity : he had, as with all

strong individualities, strong likes and dislikes. 5 But

1 II.  330.  8 Macaulay's Essays, " John Bunyan," iv. p. 407.
3 II.  331.  * Literary Studies, ii. p. 222.  » II. 409.
18 HUXLEY

the anger and the austerity were passing moods ; they
were the price which he and others paid for abiding

virtues; for the " woman's element" 1 in him which

made him cling to wife and children ; for the quick
response to every call of duty or affection ; for the

generous application of great powers to noble and un

selfish ends. Of him may be said what Lowell has
said of Lessing : " No biographical chemistry is

needed to bleach spots out of his reputation." 2 His

home was " a focus of the best affections not less

than of intellectual light." 3 He loved anniversaries ;

the devotion of his children warmed him " better than

the sun," and when his gifted daughter Marian died
in the flower of womanhood, he confessed, in the

depth of his grief, that " man is not a rational animal,

especially in his parental capacity." Where he

hated, the scorn and loathing were deserved, for they

were manifest only against the insincere and the

evasive ; if he could not brook contradiction, it was

only where ignorance or folly vaunted their assurance

and their blunders ; if he could not suffer bores gladly,

by what right did they compel a waste of time un

grudgingly given where counsel or information were

honestly asked, no matter by whom ? For, like all

I1 " have a woman's element in me." -- I. 6i.

2  The English Poets   a"nHduoxtlheeyr,"EsNsianyest,eepn. t2h78C.entury,  Dec, 1900,
3  Leslie Stephen, on

p. 917.
                   THE MAN               *9

men who loom large in the public eye, he had to
make enforced acquaintance with that aggravated
variety of the species known as the crank. Circle-
squares and earth-flatteners pestered him with pam
phlets; four-paged letters praying for his conversion,
or, more often, for his damnation, as an atheist of the

most mischievous type, were sent to him ; bulky
manuscripts, crammed with mad theories, which he
was asked to revise and get published, were left at his
house. Sometimes the comic side of the matter

appealed to him, as witness this note to his friend Sir

John Donnelly :--

I had a letter from a fellow yesterday morning who
must be a lunatic, to the effect that he had been read

ing my essays, thought I was just the man to spend a
month with, and was coming down by the five o'clock
train, attended by his seven children and his mother-

in-law !

Frost being over, there was lots of boiling water
ready for him, but he did not turn up !
Wife and servants expected nothing less than as
                1
sassination  !

  The entry in his journal, " 1860 will show," had

deeper significance than Huxley dreamed when he
made it. In 1858, he had delivered a lecture on the
origin of the vertebrate skull, in which he demolished
a theory propounded by Oken, supported by Goethe,

                              1 II. 372-
20 HUXLEY

and indorsed by Owen. At that time the influence
of Owen in biological science was supreme and un
challenged, and it needed no small courage to tell so

high an authority that even he might sometimes be in

error. Moreover, the task was not easier when, as

experience showed, Owen was no fair fighter, and
given to sacrificing truth to expediency.

   As Huxley cared nothing for authority, and every
thing for truth, it is not surprising that the result was

an "internecine feud " between them. The breach

was widened on the publication of the Origin of
Species; an event which, in Huxley's words, "marks
the Hejira of Science from the idolatries of special
creation to the purer faith of Evolution." 1 In a

paper on the Characters, Principles of Division, and
Primary Groups of the Class Mammalia, read by Owen
before the Linnean Society in 1859, he referred to

certain cerebral structures as " peculiar to the genus
Homo," and added that the " peculiar mental powers
associated with this highest form of brain " war

ranted the placing of man in a distinct sub-class of
the Mammalia.

   At the meeting of the British Association at Ox
ford on 28th June, 1860, Owen emphasised the state
ment that "the brain of the gorilla presented more

   1 Review of Haeckel's Anthropogenic.  Academy, 2d January,

1875-
THE MAN                                          21

differences, as compared with the brain of man, than
it did when compared with the brains of the very
lowest and most problematical of the Quadrumana."
To this Huxley, in polite English, gave the lie direct,

and pledged himself to "justify that unusual pro
cedure elsewhere." 1 Two days after, by mere
chance, he was present at the reading of a paper by
Dr. Draper On the Intellectual Development of Europe

considered with reference to the views of Mr. Darwin.
In the discussion which followed, Bishop Wilber-

force, throwing a glance at Huxley, ended a suave

and superficial speech by asking him " as to his belief

in being descended from an ape. Is it on his grand
father's or his grandmother's side that the ape an

cestry comes in ? " Huxley did not rise till the

meeting called for him ; then he let himself go.2

" The Lord hath delivered him into mine hands," he

said in undertone to Sir Benjamin Brodie. After

showing how ill-equipped was the Bishop for con
troversy upon the general question of organic evolu
tion, although it was an open secret that Owen had

primed him for the contest, Huxley said : " You say

that development drives out the Creator, but you

assert that God made you ; and yet you know that
you yourself were originally a little piece of matter,

1 Man's Place in Nature, p. 114 (1863 edition).
5 Letter to F. Darwin, i. p. 187.
22 HUXLEY

no bigger  than   the  end  of this     gold  pencil-case                                            "

                                                                                                    ?

Then followed the famous retort :--

I asserted, and I repeat, that a man has no reason
Ifto be ashamed of having an ape for his grandfather.
     there were an ancestor   wbehoammaI ns--hoauldmafneelofshraemste
in recalling it would rather  -- who, not content with
less and versatile intellect

success in his own sphere of activity, plunges into
scientific questions with which he has no real ac

quaintance, only to obscure them by an aimless
rhetoric, and distract the attention of his hearers from

the real point at issue by eloquent digressions and
skilled appeals to religious prejudice.1

   The rebuke was supplemented in an article in the
Natural History Review, January, 1861, on the

" Zoological Relation of Man with the Lower Ani

mals," wherein Huxley redeemed his promise to re
fute Owen, and proved that "the brains of the lower

true apes and monkeys differ far more widely from
the brain of the orang than the brain of the orang
differs from that of man." 2

   Whether [he1
origin, distinct
               is

                                        I

                                                                            is,
                                                                                 by
                                                                                                  is
                  says], as some think, man                                                         his
                  from all other living beings,                                                      or

whether, on the other hand, as others suppose, he
the result of the modification of some other mammal,

his duties and his aspirations must, apprehend, re

main the same. The proof of his claim to inde-

     There a good portrait of Huxley    at this time in Reminis

cences of Oxford, by Rev. W. Tuckwell.
  'P. 84.
                     THE MAN                  *3

pendent parentage will not change the brutishness of
man's lower nature ; nor, except to those valet souls
who cannot see greatness in their fellow because his
father was a cobbler, will the demonstration of a

pithecoid pedigree one whit diminish man's divine
right of kingship over nature ; nor lower the great
and princely dignity of perfect manhood, which is an
order of nobility, not inherited, but to be won by each
of us, so far as he consciously seeks good and avoids
evil, and puts the faculties with which he is endowed
to their fittest use.1

   Notwithstanding   " the crushing evidence  "froamddourciegd
inal dissections of
                     numerous apes' brains

by Rolleston, Flower, and other comparative anato

mists, Owen repeated and never retracted the thing

which he must have known to be false : the question

between Huxley and himself therefore became one of

" personal veracity," and led to a permanent rupture.

Moreover, Owen was known to have written an ad

verse notice of the Origin of Species in the Edinburgh
Review of April, 1860, and to have inspired Wilber-

force in the preparation of his article upon the book

in the Quarterly Review of the following July, an
article of which Huxley said --

It is a production which should be bound up in good
stout calf, or better, asses' skin, if such material is to

be had, by the curious book-collector, together with
Brougham's attack on the undulatory theory of light
when it was first propounded by Young.

                     p. 67.
24 HUXLEY

   The outcome of all this was his first, and, in many

respects, his most important book, Evidence as to
Man's Place in Nature ', which, based upon lectures
delivered to working men in London, and at the
Philosophical Institution of Edinburgh, was published
in 1863. He was no superficial student of his kind ;
he was anthropologist as well as anatomist ; he had

studied in the book of the world more than in the
world of books. As he told an audience in 1882,

it had been his fate

to be familiar with almost every form of society, from
the uncivilised savage of Papua and Australia and the
civilised savages of the slums and dens of the pov
erty-stricken parts of great cities, to those who, per
haps, are occasionally the somewhat over-civilised
members of our upper ten thousand.1

    He saw with Herbert Spencer and Darwin (who
had been content to throw out a bare hint at the end

of his book) that if the processes of what is called
the law of Evolution are applicable anywhere, they

are applicable everywhere ; that when once the funda

mental relation of man to the lower animals, so far as

his bodily structure and functions are concerned, is
proven, inquiry into the relation of his mental ap
paratus and faculties to theirs must follow, and,
with this, the study of his intellectual and spiritual
development, and of his progress from the selfish-

                                1 Coll. Essays, iii. p. 164.
                       THE MAN                          25

ness of the primitive horde to the comity of na

tions. Hence, as he says in the second division of

the book --

The question of questions for mankind --the problem
                                             is more deeply inter
which   underlies  aolltheorth--ersis,  and  ascertainment of the
esting  than any                        the
place which Man occupies in nature and of his relation
to the universe of things. Whence our race has
come ; what are the limits of our power over nature
and of nature's power over us ; to what goal we are

tending ; are the problems which present themselves
anew and with undiminished interest to every man
born into the world.1

While, however, this interest in ultimate problems,

evidenced in the journal of his boyhood, grew with his

years, it absorbed no undue proportion of his time.

Man in his relation to his fellows had more interest

for him, and explains Huxley's activities in all things

affecting the body politic, and the social progress of

his kind.   Needless to say that he who was all for
truth was
the Civil  likewise all for freedom. In 1862, when
           War in America was raging, and when

Gladstone was telling us                that Jefferson   Davis had
                                        never doubted   that slavery
" made a nation," Huxley

was doomed. Not that he believed in the negro ; he

knew how permanent are the natural inequalities of

races, and how hopeless, except in the rarest cases, it
26 HUXLEY

is to look for any elevation of the sensuous and vola
tile black, charged as he is with animal instincts ac
cumulated beneath the tropical suns of unnumbered

years. But he was for the North, because " slavery

means bad political economy, bad social morality, and
a bad influence upon free labour and freedom all over

the world." 1 Two years later, he joined the Jamaica

Committee, formed to prosecute Governor Eyre for

the execution of the negro Gordon, because " English

law does not permit good persons as such to strangle
bad persons, as such."2

    He was in favour of the emancipation of women,
of the removal of every obstacle in the way of their
intellectual advancement and development.3 Writing
to Miss Jex Blake about her difficulty in obtaining a

medical education, he said

that he was at a loss to understand on what grounds
of justice or public policy, a career which is open to
the weakest and most foolish of the male sex should
be forcibly closed to women of vigour and capacity.

They should, if they so pleased,

become merchants, barristers, politicians. Let them
have a fair field, but let them understand, as the

necessary correlative, that they are to have no favour.

  I1 I. 252.

Gray, says :
         In like  manner, Darwin, writing at this time to Asa
         " Great  God ! how should like to see the greatest
curse on earth --slavery -- abolished 1 " -- Life and Letters, ii. p. 375.
·L 280.                           »L 212.
                   THE MAN                     27

Let Nature alone sit high above the lists, " rain in

fluence and judge the prize."
    But the prize, he was sure, would not be theirs,

since the most Darwinian of theorists will not ven

ture to propound the doctrine that the physical disabil
ities under which women have hitherto laboured in
the struggle for existence with men are likely to be
removed by even the most skilfully conducted process

of educational selection.1

Strongly convinced, as the most pronounced indi

vidualist can be, that it is desirable that every man
should be free to act in every way which does not

limit the corresponding freedom of his fellow-man, he

made his practical protest against the liberty-infrin

ging Deceased Wife's Sister Bill in approving the

union of one of his daughters with the husband of

her late sister Marian. And while knowing, as few

knew so well, what an " immense amount of remedi
able misery exists among us," misery which, " if not

effectually dealt with, will destroy modern civilisa

tion," he opposed the means adopted by the Salvation
                   not because of its " Corybantic
Army to cope with1

                     it,

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                    a
Christianity " and coarse dogmas, but because

fanatical despotism controls it.

   Few social evils are of greater magnitude than

uninstructed and unchastened religious fanaticism no
personal habit more surely degrades the conscience
and the intellect than blind and unhesitating obedience
to unlimited authority. Undoubtedly, harlotry and

                                 Lay Sermons, p. 22.
28 HUXLEY

intemperance are sore evils, and starvation is hard to
bear, or even to know of ; but the prostitution of the
mind, the soddening of the conscience, the dwarfing
of manhood, are worse calamities. 1

   By the time that Evidence as to Man's Place in
Nature was written, Huxley had command of a style
which, in the judgment of Sir Spencer Walpole, --a
judgment with which few will be found to disagree,

--" made him the greatest master of prose of his

time."2 Apt in application to him is Caxton's

tribute to Chaucer, " for he writeth no void words,

but all his matter is full of high and quick sentence."
Yet with a great price bought he this freedom of
ready speech and pen. Those who heard, and, hear
ing, can never forget, his wonderful discourse On the

Coming of Age of the Origin of Species, at the Royal
Institution in 1880, when, without notes, he told the

story of that epoch-making book in clear and force
ful English which held his audience spellbound, may

learn with surprise that his early essays upon the plat
form boded ill for his success. But he, who all the
days of his life was at school, profited by criticism of
the kind which came from a local institute, begging

" not to have that young man again " ; from working

men ; and from members of the Royal Institution.
As a writer, he had served a useful apprenticeship in

1 Coll. Essays, ix. p. 244.  « II. 25.
                           THE MAN             29

reviewing and popular " pot-boiling, whereby there is

acquired the art of condensation and simplification of

a subject"; while a retentive memory utilised the

stores of years of miscellaneous reading in his own

and other languages for example and allusion.

But all this would have availed little in the absence

of that mother-wit which gave him quick insight into

things ; and of that passion for logical symmetry

whereby he made clear to others what he saw clearly

himself. He followed methods, not models; he

" doubted the wisdom of attempting to mould one's

style by any other process than that of striving after

the clear and forcible expression of definite concep

tions." In commending the study of Hobbes for

dignity, of Swift for concision and clearness, and of

Defoe and Goldsmith for simplicity,1 he commended

the qualities with which his own work is charged.

Ars est celare artem, and deftly enough has he effaced

the traces of the labour which the preparation of his

lectures and his writing cost him. In 1860 he wrote

to Hooker, " It becomes more and more difficult to
me to finish things satisfactorily " ; 2 and thirty years

after, in a letter to M. de Varigny, he says :--

  I have a    "grneoabtle  love and respect for my native
                            instrument of thought," he else
tongue [that
where calls it], and take great pains to use it properly.

1 II. 284; and see Coll. Essays, vi. p. xii.  8 I. 215.
30 HUXLEY

ISometimes write   essays half-a-dozen   times   before  I
                   the proper shape,            believe  I
can get them into                       and I
become more fastidious as I grow older.1

   The nine volumes of Collected Essays bear evidence
throughout to Huxley's supreme skill as an interpreter,
and to his genius for constructing while he de
molished. Miscellaneous as are their contents, they
have the unity which is inspired by a central idea.
With the exception of a verbal correction, and of a

slightly qualifying foot-note, here and there, each
stands as it was originally written. Revision could
only have impaired their stately, lucid, and sonorous
prose, while to their main subject-matter all sub
sequent additions to knowledge have brought only
confirmation.

   As for his letters, with which his son has, wisely,
largely filled his biography, even where traces of
hurry may be noted, there is never a slovenly
sentence ; the gist of an essay is often packed in a
few lines, and the passion to put things in such a way

that the meaning may be seen at a glance is as ap
parent as in the more elaborate compositions. And

the humorous touches, sparsely, but always effectively,
applied in these, are, in the letters to friends and
familiars, thrown in freely, with a boy-like enjoyment

of the fun.

                                   »II. 291.
THE MAN                             31

In the limits of a sketch which permits only of an

attempt to portray the salient features of Huxley's

character, and to indicate his attitude towards the

burning questions of his time, confusion rather than
clearness would result from import of details of the

less eventful years. Hence the sometimes abrupt

passage from one period to another, leaving the blanks

to be filled up by reference to the brief chronological

table which precedes this outline.

In 1870, perhaps the busiest year of Huxley's busy

life, he was urged to offer himself as a candidate for
the newly-formed School Board for London. His

many commitments made him hesitate to stand, but

he consented, because the position gave him a coveted
chance of helping to put into practice the theories of

education which he had long advocated. The op

portunity was given him ; he came out second on the

poll. His views upon the subject are scattered

through many lectures and essays, but their consist

ency permits brief presentment.      He contended that

education should be " free and   equal " ; the business
of the school boards being the provision of " a ladder

reaching from the gutter to the university, along

which every child in the three kingdoms should have
the chance of climbing as far as he was fit to go." 1

That the race is to the swift and the battle to the

1 Coll. Essays, iii. p. 424.
32 HUXLEY

strong, was added reason for according equality of op
portunity : Nature might be depended upon to let
the incompetent find their level. In physical training,
drill and the simpler kind of gymnastics should be
taught, the importance of this being paramount in the
case of town-bred children who, shut up in sunless

alleys, have to amuse themselves with " marbles and

chuck-farthings instead of cricket or hare-and-
hounds." He would have girls taught the elements
of household work, if a supply of competent servants
and of thrifty housewives is to be maintained. In

mental training, after the " three R's," reading being

taught so as to make it a pleasure and incentive, fore
most place should be given to some one or more of
the natural sciences, because these bring the faculties
of observation and inquiry into play, and because, in
teaching a child the nature and properties of things,
he is shown that the method of reaching knowledge
of these is to be applied to every other branch of
knowledge.

   Let every child be instructed in those general views
of the phenomena of Nature for which we have no
exact English name. The nearest approximation to

ta"erp,nhayEmsriedcakulfnodrgeewohg(ar"at epahIryth.m" e1kanno,TwhaleenddgGweeh"rimcoharnw"seghepaovoloesgsyeass"b,eitins

   1 The more inclusive, but somewhat indefinite, term « physi
ography," has since come into use.
                                 THE MAN                                                                             33

its etymological sense), that is to say, a general knowl
      Tohfestrhhuciennheileda"r"tahs,"k"saW,nWdh"haWwaththaat tis is
                                                                      is

                                                                            it,

                                                                                                    ?

                                                                                       it,
edge                                                             is on in and about
it.
                                                                                         the moon, and why
does
      it it                                                      this                    water,      "and"  where
does                                                             the                     wind
                          ?                                                                                 What
                              ?

makes   the waves in             the sea?" "Where                                                      d"oes   this
animal  live, and what             the use of that plant                                                      And
                                 is
                                      is

                                            ;

                                               by
                                                                                                 ?
not snubbed and stunted                                                                  being told not to ask
if
                                 no limit to the intellectual
                      a
foolish questions, there
craving of young child nor any bounds to the
slow, but solid, accretion of knowledge and develop

ment of the thinking faculty in this way. To all
such questions, answers which are necessarily incom
                                 by ;
                                     a

                                               a
                                                                                 by
plete, though true as far as they go, may be given

any teacher whose ideas represent real knowledge and
not mere book-learning and panoramic view of
                                                                 strong infusion of the
Nature, accompanied
scientific habit of mind, may thus be placed within
the reach of every child of nine or ten.1

    Huxley deemed necessary for everybody, whether

for longer or shorter period, to learn to draw --
a
                         is it
                              it a

                                                                                             a
thing quite feasible, since everybody can be taught to

write, and writing               form of drawing. The value

of this cannot be

exaggerated, because             gives the means of training
the young in attention and accuracy, the two things
in which all mankind are more deficient than in any

other mental quality whatever.2

Among scientific topics he would include the

elements of the theory of political and social life,

which, strangely enough,                                       never seems to occur to
1
                                                                                         Coll. Essays, iii. p. 183.
                                         it

                                                                                      »
Lay Sermons, p. 55.
34 HUXLEY

anybody to teach a child. I would have the history
of our own country, and of all the influences which
                             a

                                           it,

                                                                             al
have been brought to bear upon        with incidental

geography, taught, not as mere chronicle of reigns
and battles, not as evidence that Providence has
ways been on the side of the Whigs or Tories, but
as chapter in the development of the race, and the
a

history of civilisation.1

Literature should have large place, because
                       is
an exclusively scientific training will bring abouta
mental twist as surely as an exclusively literary trainif
ing. For literature        the greatest of all sources of
                                           a

                                                aI

                                                                it a
                                      scope enough for the
...refined pleasure, and there    is

purposes of liberal education in the study of the rich
treasures of our own language alone.
                                             have

said before, and repeat here, that    man cannot
                 I     I

get literary culture of the highest kind out of hisit

Bible, and Chaucer, and Shakespeare, he cannot get
out of anything, and would assuredly devote very
large portion of the time of every English child to
the careful study of models of English writing of
such varied and wonderful kind as we possess, and,

what still more important, and still more neglected,is

the habit of using that language with precision, with

force, and with art.2

These, together with translations of the best ancient

and modern works, where time or circumstance do not

permit of the learning of foreign languages, Huxley
counted among the essentials. The law of propor

tion, nan multa, sed multum, must be observed there
is
                                                                              the
                                                                           2

                                                             if if
to be any thoroughness in education, and

   iii. p. 184.                   Coll. Essays, iii. pp. 109, 185.
                   THE MAN                                                                          35

freshness and vigour of body and mind are to be

maintained, as they can be only by avoidance of " the

educational abomination of desolation of the present
day -- the stimulation of young people to work at high

pressure by incessant competitive examinations." 1

   A generation has passed since these words were

written, and things remain as they were. Education,

whether in public or elementary school, is as bad

as it can be.      It belies its name. There is no

" drawing-out,"    but only a cramming-in ; no culti

vation of observation, of reasoning, or reflection ;
only the teaching of a crowd of facts without making

clear their relation, and hence no incitement to inde

pendent thought.

   Technical training, the importance of which Hux

ley enforced in a remarkable essay on " The Struggle

for Existence in Human Society,"2 he left to the

workshop, " as the only real school for a handicraft."
   In moral training ; since each child is

a member of a social and political organisation o.f

great complexity, and has, in future, to fit himself
into that organisation, or be crushed by
1                                                                                                   need
                                                                                                 8

                                                                     it,
                                                                  it
                                                                                      is
ful not only that boys and girls should be made ac
quainted with the elementary laws of conduct, but
that their affections should be trained so as to love

with all their hearts that conduct which tends to the

attainment of the highest good for themselves and

lb., iii. p. 410.           lb., ix. pp. 223-225.
36 HUXLEY

their fellow-men, and to hate with all their hearts that
opposite course of action which is fraught with evil.1

Lacking this, intellectual training may be as produc
tive of harm as of good ; reading, writing, and cipher

ing may equip a youth for forgery, and training in
mechanics make him an expert burglar. In the year

before his election on the School Board, Huxley thus

summed up what in his judgment is comprised in a

liberal education : --

That man, I think, has had a liberal education who

has been so trained in youth that his body is the ready

servant of his will, and does with ease and pleasure
all the work that, as a mechanism, it is capable of ;
whose intellect is a clear, cold logic-engine, with all its
parts of equal strength and in smooth working order ;
ready, like a steam-engine, to be turned to any kind
of work, and spin the gossamers as well as forge the
anchors of the mind ; whose mind is stored with the

knowledge of the great and fundamental truths of
nature and of the laws of her operations ; one who, no
stunted ascetic, is full of fire and life, but whose pas
sions are trained to come to heel by a vigorous will,
the servant of a tender conscience ; who has learned
to love all beauty, whether of nature or of art, to hate

all vileness, and to respect others as himself. Such

Ian one, and no other, conceive, has had a liberal
1
           :education ; for he

                               is,

                                                                                               »

                                                                                  a
                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                  p.
                            as completely as man can be,
in harmony with Nature. He will make the best of
her, and she of him. They will get on together
rarely she as his ever beneficent mother he as her

mouthpiece, her conscious self, her minister and

interpreter.2

Coll. Essays, iii. p. 393.  Lay Sermons,                                                                              30.
                       THE MAN                                                                               37

In moral training, or the application of knowledge

to conduct, Huxley would accord no place to theol
Ifogy.
        the various denominations, whether Church

or Dissenting, choose to start and maintain schools in

which their several tenets are to be taught, that is

their affair. They pay the piper, and they may call

the tune. But schools established and maintained by

the community depart from their proper functions

when they train " either hands for factories or con

gregations for churches." 1 They are to hold on
brief for any sect. The ethics which they teach must

have relation to life, and therefore must be neither

technical nor speculative. Theology is both, and

cannot be otherwise. Moreover, where order is pres

ent, it imports confusion;           it,
                                                   it

                                                                         is
                                                                                       a
                                     and alone,                                                              the

apple of discord, and its dogmas, on many of which

no two sects are agreed, bring " not peace, but

sword." The teaching of the ascertained facts of

history, astronomy, geology, and other branches of
science the inculcation of the duties of cleanliness
;
                  ;

                           by ;

                            It

                                          is

                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                          ;
and temperance of self-respect and self-restraint of

consideration for others of kindness to animals and

of honesty and truthfulness in all the relations of life

--all which, enforced  example and illustration, can

be brightly conveyed,-- these run smoothly enough

and arouse no bitterness.            over the disputable

                             'I- 35
38 HUXLEY

creed and dogma; over the unproven--nay, as the

well-informed among clergy and laity know, the dis

proved --that the precious time of youthhood is

wasted, and the battle for capture of the schools is

waged. " By their fruits ye shall know them." And
if the moral tone of the generation which has been

brought up on the creeds and the catechism satisfies

the teachers as to the practical influence of these on
the lives of the taught, it is clear that a low standard

contents them.

   Knowing Huxley's antagonistic attitude towards
orthodox beliefs, both cleric and secularist were be

wildered when the " great Agnostic," as the Spectator

called him, pronounced himself in favour of the use
of the Bible in Board Schools. That his decision was

ruled by the highest motives va sans dire, but, as he
came to see, it was none the less deplorable. On
the eve of the election he explained his position as

follows :--

   When the great mass of the English people declare
that they want to have the children in the elementary
schools taught the Bible, and when it was plain from
the terms of the Act that it was intended that such

IBible-reading should be permitted, unless good cause

for prohibiting it could be shown, do not see what

reason there is for opposing that wish. Certainly, I,

individually, could with no shadow of consistency
oppose the teaching of the children of other people
that which my own children are taught to do. And
                  THE MAN                                                39

even if the reading of the Bible were not, as I think

it consonant with political reason and justice, and
with desire to act in the spirit of the education
is,
    a

     I

                                                    it
measure, am disposed to think might still be well
tojiead that book in the elementary schools.

 yL-have always been strongly in favor of secular
education, in the sense of education ' without the

ology but         must confess     have been no less
;
                                   what practical meas
      I
                            by I

                                                       is
seriously perplexed to know
ures the religious feeling, which the essential basis
of conduct, was to be kept up, in the present utterly
chaotic state of opinion, without the use of the Bible.
The Pagan moralists lack life and colour, and even
the noble Stoic, Marcus Aurelius, too high and re
fined for an ordinary child. Take the Bible as;
                                                                         a
                                       ; is is
whole make the severest deductions which fair
if
              ;:
criticism can dictate for shortcomings and positive

errors eliminate, as sensible lay-teacher would do,
left to himself, all thatis a      not desirable for chil
                           a it
                               is
dren to occupy themselves with and there still re
mains in this old literature vast residuum of moral
beauty and grandeuF.l And then consider the great
historical fact that, lor three centuries, this book has
been woven into the life of all that best and noblest

in English history, that  it  has become the national

epic of Britain, and as familiar to noble and simple,
from John-o'-Groat's House to Land's End, as Dante
and Tasso once were to the Italians that                                 written
                                                           ;

                                                                it
                                                                     is
in  the noblest and purest English, and abounds in ex
       itquisite beauties of mere literary form and, finally,
that forbids the veriest hind who never left his vil

lage to be ignorant of the existence of other coun         a
tries and other civilisations, and of great past,
stretching back to the furthest limits of the oldest
nations in the world. By the study of what other
book could children be so much humanised and made

to feel that each figure in that vast historical proces
40 HUXLEY

sion fills, like themselves, but a momentary space in
the interval between two eternities ; and earns the
blessings or the curses of all time, according to its

effort to do good and hate evil, even as they also are
         ththeewirhpoaley,mtehnetn,foIr         work ?
earning                                  their   favour  of  reading  the
                                         am in
   On

Bible, with such grammatical, geographical, and his

torical explanations by a lay-teacher as may be need
ful, with rigid exclusion of any further theological
teaching than that contained in the Bible itself. And
in stating what this the teacher would do well not1
to go beyond the precise words of the Bible for
he does, he will, in the first place, undertake taskis,
                                                             ;
                                                                 a

                                                                   if

beyond his strength, seeing that all the Jewish and
Christian sects have been at work upon that subject
for more than two thousand years, and have not yet

arrived, and are not in the least likely to arrive, at an
agreement and, in the second place, he will certainly
is
       ;begin to teach something distinctively denominational,
and thereby come into violent collision with the Act
of Parliament.1

As well known, the so-called Cowper-Temple

clause in the Act, which                 itself an unsatisfactory
compromise, prescribes that " no religious catechismis
                                                 is
or religious formulary which                         distinctive of any

particular denomination shall be taught in the

school " and Huxley believed that, in the words of
W. E. Forster, no attempt would be made to cram
into the children's " poor little minds theological
1
dogmas which their tender age prevents them from
             ;
understanding." He mistrusted the clergy but he
                                                             I». ;
Coll. Essays, iii. pp. 397-399.                                     344-
THE MAN  41

had faith that, in lay hands, " the teaching of that

' venerable record of ancient life, miscalled a book,' 1

would be gradually modified into harmony with com
mon-sense." But in his belief that his opponents
would abide by the compact, he assumed that their
standard of honour and integrity was not lower than
his own. He was mistaken. The bargain has not
been kept by the clerical party, and attempt after at

tempt has been, and is being, made to reduce the

Cowper-Temple clause to a nullity. Theological
bias, or fear of retarded promotion, have made many
of the teachers puppets in the hands of the parsons.
The Bible is not interpreted, as Jowett said it should

be, " like any other book," and this to the grievous

impairment of its value, since appreciation of it is

deepened in the degree that it is freed from the

shackles of theories of inspiration. Its miscellaneous
contents, many of them of uncertain authorship and
of disputed meaning, are presented as constituting one

harmonious supernatural document ; its myths are still
taught as history ; and the Ten Commandments are
put on the same high ethical plane as the Beatitudes.

   Not very long before his death Huxley was asked

to take part in opposing the tactics known as " Riley-
ism." To this he replied : --

I feel very strongly about the attempt to capture

                                1II. 123.
                                           HUXLEY

elementary education on the part of the orthodox
sects, in spite of the clear pledges given by Forster,
and the understanding arrived at by the first School
                                           I am entangled
dBeoratradk.ingsU, nwfohrticuhnaItedlyid,                    in several  un
                                           not bargain for,  and could   not

refuse, and which will occupy all my scanty working
powers for some months to come.                    So I must really

keep out of the melee. Indeed, I am                not sure but that

the best policy is to let these Christian pagans have
their way. The axe is laid to the root of the tree,
and when it falls they will be crushed the more
effectually for their short success.1

While " ecclesiastically-minded persons," not content

with absorbing one entire day in the week, and some
portion of other days, clamoured for more, Huxley
retorted by asking them to surrender a portion of the

Sunday

for the purpose of instructing those who have no
other leisure in a knowledge of the phenomena of

Nature, and of man's relation to Nature. I should

like to see a scientific Sunday-school in every parish,
not for the purpose of superseding any existing means
of teaching the                                                for their
                   people the things                that are  but think
good, but side by  side with them.
                                                   I cannot
that there is room for all of us to work in helping to
bridge over the great abyss of ignorance which lies at
our feet.2

   ' Westminster Gazette, 1st July, 1895 ; and see I. 343 (note).
In his Bible in School, p. 12, Mr. Allanson Picton says that shortly

before his death Huxley expressed regret that he had not voted
with Mr. Picton for the exclusion of the Bible from elementary

schools.

   2 Lay Sermons, p. 61.
                     THE MAN                       43

   As  late as 1893  ne planned-out a series       of working
men's   lectures on
                      the Bible, " in which         he should

present to the unlearned the results of scientific study

of the documents, and do for theology what he had
                                            "
done   for  zoology  thirty  years  before      ;  and although

this scheme, the outline of which Mr. Leonard

Huxley copies from his father's note-book, was never

carried out, " it was constantly before Huxley's mind

during the two years left to him." 1 Before leaving
the subject of his general influence as an educational
reformer, it should be noted that he worked with an
apostolic fervour to improve the quality of the

teachers as the only security for thorough education
of the taught. He established regular classes for the
training of "scientific missionaries,"2 as he described

them ; pressed his views on technical education on the

City guilds and other influential bodies, and kept before
his students, as the mark of their "high calling,"

the cultivation of that enthusiasm for truth, that
fanaticism of veracity which is a greater possession
than much learning, a nobler gift than the power of

increasing knowledge ; by so much greater than these

as the moral nature of man is greater than the intel

lectual.3

Owing to a serious breakdown in health, Huxley

was compelled, after fourteen months' service on the

School Board, to resign his membership.            "A
1 II. 345.
            J I. 377.               3 Coll. Essays, iii. p. 205.
44 HUXLEY

wealthy friend wrote to him in the most honourable
and delicate terms, begging him, on public grounds,
to accept £^00 a-year to enable him to continue his
work on the Board. He refused the offer as simply
and straightforwardly as it was made ; his means,
though not large, were sufficient for his present
needs."1 Some, who had no personal knowledge of
him, thought that his desire to secure a seat on the
School Board indicated an intention to enter Parlia
ment. But he had neither taste nor ambition for
politics.

   At a Royal Society dinner in 1892, Mr. Shaw

Lefevre expressed his regret that Huxley's abilities
had never been placed at the service of the House of

Commons. In his reply, reminiscences of youth and
of controversies in recent years found a place. He told

the company that, when he was a very young man, a
lawyer in good practice, believing that he saw in him
qualities that would ensure success at the bar, offered
to advance him an income for a certain number of
years until he could repay the amount from the fees
which he was sure to earn. He declined, because, as
he dryly said,

so far as I understand myself, my faculties are so
entirely confined to the discovery of truth, that I have

no sort of power of obscuring it.
                                lI- 353-

                                                                                                                                                          1
              THE MAN                           45

   In 1870, Huxley's defense of Dr. Brown-Sequard
at the Liverpool meeting of the British Association
brought him into collision with the opponents of

vivisection, and the battle went on, in intermittent

fashion, for some seven years. Experiments had been

carried on, chiefly in France, without regard to animal
suffering, and also for the wholly needless purpose of

further demonstrating well-known facts in physiology

and pathology. Hence an agitation which, within
limits, commanded the sympathy .of all humanely

minded folk, and the appointment of a committee

by the Association to consider what steps should be

taken to reduce to its minimum the suffering entailed
by legitimate inquiry. The committee recommended

that there should be no experiments without the use

of anaesthetics ; or for the purpose of illustrating

truths already known ; or for practice in manual

dexterity ; and these provisions, with others of undue

stringency, were embodied in " An Act to amend the

law relating  to Cruelty  to Animals," passed   in 1876.
Huxley held               wanton infliction of  pain on
              that " the

man or beast is a crime," 1 and that the vivisectionist

is justified only when his aim is the discovery of the
origin and nature of disease with a view to the
alleviation or removal of the suffering which it
causes. In this he has rendered incalculable service

                          1 1. 436.
46 HUXLEY

to mankind, and also to the lower animals, since

" not a single one of all the great truths of modern

physiology has been established otherwise than by ex
periments on living things." 1

   In defending a practice which by one successful

experiment on an animal rendered insensible to pain
might save numberless lives from some fell disease,
Huxley had to meet a frontal attack, whose chief
weapon, wielded by fanaticism, was misrepresentation

and slander. He was charged by one of the so-

called " religious " papers with advocating the

practice of vivisection before children, and the charge
was repeated in the House of Lords. It was nec
essary to publicly deny what had been thus publicly

asserted; he quoted chapter and verse from his
Elementary Physiology in refutation, adding that

" personally and constitutionally " the performance of

experiments upon living and conscious animals was

" so extremely disagreeable " to himself that he had
" never followed any line of investigation in which

such experiments were required." But he said that,
as a teacher of physiology, he could not

consent to be prohibited from showing the circulation
in a frog's foot, because the frog is made slightly un
comfortable by being tied up for that purpose; nor
from showing the fundamental properties of nerves,

                               lI- 434-
                 THE MAN                                   47

because extirpating the brain of the same animal
inflicts one-thousandth part of the prolonged suffering
which it undergoes when it makes its natural exit
from the world by being slowly forced down the
throat of a duck, and crushed and asphyxiated in that

creature's stomach.1

   He had small stock of patience for the " senti
mental hypocrisy " which evidenced its lack of sin

cerity in not abstaining from eating the flesh of

creatures put to death in lingering torture, both in the

slaughter-house   and on the moors, or in destroying
rats, mice, and
                 other " sentient vermin " ; and when

the Act of 1876, on the Royal Commission concern

ing which he was a member, was passed, he showed

how it exemplified the old adage that " one man may

steal a horse while the other may not look over the

hedge."

While, as a member of a late Royal Commission, I
                                            of
did  my   best to prevent the  infliction  duty  needless  pain
for  any                         is my            to take  this
          purpose, I think it
opportunity of expressing my regret at a condition
of the law which permits a boy to troll for pike or set
lines with live-frog bait for idle amusement, and at
the same time lays the teacher of that boy open to
the penalty of fine and imprisonment if he uses the
same animal for the purpose of exhibiting one of the
most beautiful and instructive of
tacles -- the circulation in the web  physiological        spec
                                      of the foot.

So it comes about that in this year of grace 1877,
two persons may be charged with cruelty to animals.

                 1 I. 432.
4« HUXLEY

One has impaled a frog, and suffered the creature to
writhe about in that condition for hours ; the other
has pained the animal no more than one of us would

be pained by tying strings round his fingers and keep
Iing him                                  of a

The first                                  did
                                            the
ing very
ionaffmentuhdseeinrgpso"asyi;tsio,an"ndI               hydropathic patient.
                                                      it because find fish

                                                       magistrate bids him

dTehpeartseicnonpdeapclee,adnsa,y,"  pIrowbaanbtleyd  wishes him   good sport.
                                                       to impress  a scientific

truth with a distinctness attainable in no other way
on the minds of my scholars," and the magistrate
fines him five pounds. 1

    From 1870 onward, the time which Huxley had
been able to snatch from public and private demands

for biological research grew less and less. "For eight

years he was continuously on one Royal Commission

after another. His administrative work on learned

societies continued to increase; in 1869-70 he held
the presidency of the Ethnological Society (which,

chiefly by his efforts, became merged in the Anthro
pological Institute) ; he was elected president of the
Geological Society in 1872; and for nearly ten years,
from 1 87 1 to 1880, he was Secretary of the Royal
Society, an office which occupied no small portion of

his time and thought." 2 Little wonder, therefore,

that his dyspepsia became chronic, compelling a
lengthy absence, which, through the generosity of

friends, was spent along the Mediterranean seaboard

as far as Egypt. 3 Returning thence bronzed and

1 Coll. Essays, iii. pp. 301, 302.                    » I. 324.    · I. 367.
THE MAN  49

bearded, but only patched up, he perforce took life a

little easier. In 1874 he followed-up Tyndall's
famous Presidential Address at the Belfast meeting of
the British Association with a lecture on "Animal

Automatism," which underwent the usual misin

terpretation attending any presentment of psychical
activity in mechanical terms. In 1870, when lectur
ing before the Cambridge Young Men's Christian
Society, Huxley had made the life and philosophy of
Descartes the text of insistence on the duty of doubt
as a condition of reaching certainty ; and now, before

a presumably more scientific audience, he showed

what significant contributions that master-mind had

made to our knowledge of the physiology of the
nervous system. The resulting intrusion of the biolo
gist into the domain of metaphysics, which theology

had so long annexed, aroused the old antagonism, and

Huxley had again to combat the passion and preju

dice which his famous "lay sermon," on "The
Physical Basis of Life," had aroused in Edinburgh in

1868.

    The summer of 1875 found him in that city lec
turing on Natural History on behalf of Sir (then Pro
fessor) Wyville Thomson, who was absent on the
Challenger expedition. In a letter which Huxley
received from Thomson in August, doubts were
thrown on Huxley's theory of the organic character
50 HUXLEY

of a viscid, granular substance which had been
dredged from the bottom of the Atlantic in 1868. He
had expressed the opinion that this deposit was a
living form of very low type, and in this faith, and as
a compliment to Haeckel, had named it Bathybius
Haeckelii} But it turned out that what seemed to be
long to the group of simplest living things was only a

precipitate, probably due to its having been preserved

in spirit.2 There was an impression, confined, how
ever, to superficial critics, that Huxley had regarded
Bathybius as a hitherto missing link between the
living and the not-living, and they rejoiced doubly ;
first, in his discomfiture as possibly weakening his
authority, and next, in the blow dealt, as they hoped,
to the theory of the unity of the cosmos. But, as he
told them, when admitting the error,

that which interested me in the matter was the

apparent analogy of Bathybius with other well-known
forms of lower life. . . . Speculative hopes and
fears had nothing to do with the matter; and if

Bathybius were brought up alive from the bottom
Iof the Atlantic to-morrow, the fact would not have
the slightest bearing, that         can discern, upon Mr.
Darwin's speculations, or upon any of the disputed
problems of biology. It would merely be one ele

mentary organism the more added to the thousands

already known.3

1 Scientific Memoirs, iii. p. 337.  2 I. 295, 446 ; II. 5, 160.
> Coll. Essays, v. p. 154.
                       THE MAN                                    51

   Misrepresentation, whose roots were in animus

rather than in ignorance, went on, and as late as 1890

Mr. Mallock revived the " Bathybius myth" in the

Nineteenth Century, upon which Huxley commented,

with warrantable irritation : --

Bathybius is far too convenient a stick to beat this
                       gtihveenweuapp, onhowefefevcetruaml. anyI
dog with to  be  ever                                             lies may
be needful   to  make                                             told the

whole story in my reply to the Duke of Argyll, but
of course the pack give tongue just as loudly as ever.

Clerically-minded people cannot be accurate, even the

liberals.1

   In 1876 he paid a long-cherished visit to America.
The newspapers, confusing him with Tyndall, recently
married to a daughter of the aristocratic house of

Hamilton, reported that he was bringing with him his

" titled bride," who, needless to say, had long been

the joyful mother of many children. The trip inter
ested and invigorated him ; his progress from place to
place was almost royal. But that with which his

hosts thought to impress him most impressed him
least. Their energy won his admiration ; watching

the mass of moving craft in New York harbour, he

Ifsaid, " I were not a man, I think I should like to

be a tug." But, in his lecture before the Johns Hop
kins University at Baltimore, he said :

                               1 II. 160.
52 HUXLEY

I am not in the slightest degree impressed by your
bigness or your material resources, as such. Size is
not grandeur; territory does not make a nation. The
I"great issue, about which
                 hangs     a       --tru"eWshuabltimaitrye,  and
the terror of overhangingfate,is                             you

going to do with all these things  . . . The
one condition of success, your sole safeguard, is the
moral worth and intellectual clearness of the indi

vidual citizen.

    He was deeply interested in the fossil remains in
the Yale College museum which Professor Marsh had
unearthed from the Tertiary beds of the Far West.

They demonstrated what was new to him-- the evolu

tion of the horse on the American continent, " and

for the first time indicated the direct line of descent

of an existing animal." The fascinating story of the
series of discoveries, linking the one-toed genus Equus
of to-day with a five-toed ancestor common to it and
other hoofed quadrupeds, is told, with the added
charm which Huxley's power of clear exposition im
parts, in his American Addresses. The subject will

have fuller treatment in the next chapter.

   In the following six years Huxley published as
many books, among which, and of enduring value,

were his monographs on the anatomy and physiology

of the Crayfish and on the philosophy of Hume,--

subjects seemingly diverse enough, but alike in the
problems which they suggest concerning Nature as

"nowhere inaccessible, and everywhere unfathom
THE MAN                53

able."1 In 1881, concurrently with the absorption
of the School of Mines in what was then called the
Normal School, Huxley became Professor of Biology
and Dean of the Royal College of Science, claiming

thereby, as he jocosely reminded his friends, the title

of " The Very Reverend " ; and in the same year he

accepted an Inspectorship of Fisheries, which had the
advantage of taking him into the fresh air.

   In 1883 he received the highest honour which his

fellow-savants could bestow in being elected President
of the Royal Society. But the dignity, which he ac

cepted with reluctance, was, on account of bad health,

surrendered in November, 1885. He had become
more and more the invalid ; holidays had given him
only fillips, and the little store of energy which they

added was quickly dissipated ; deafness troubled him,

bringing its dreaded isolation, and in the previous
May, having reached his sixtieth year, an age at which
he had often jocosely said that men of science should
be pole-axed, lest through ossification of mind they
become arrestors of progress, he resigned all his ap

pointments, paid and unpaid, and retired upon a pen

sion of £1,200 a-year, which, shortly afterwards, was
supplemented by a Civil List pension of £300 a-year.

   But resignation of offices meant not retirement
from work. During the ten years of life that re-

1 The Crayfish, p. 3.
54 HUXLEY

mained to him he was more in evidence than ever.

He had never permitted his official position to curb

his freedom of speech, and now that his time was all

his own, that freedom could have larger play. In a

retrospect of life, summing-up the part he had played

in what he called the " New Reformation," he said
that the objects which he had pursued were " briefly
these " :

   To promote the increase of natural knowledge and

to forward the application of scientific methods of
investigation to all the problems of life to the best of

my ability, in the conviction which has grown with
my growth and strengthened with my strength, that
there is no alleviation for the sufferings of mankind
except veracity of thought and of action, and the
resolute facing of the world as it              ; is,  when the gar
ment of make-belief  by
                           iswhich pious hands have

hidden its uglier features      stripped off.          It               with
                                                          I is

                                                                       :
this intent that have subordinated any reasonable or
              I

unreasonable ambition for scientific fame which may

have permitted myself to entertain to other ends to
the popularisation of science to the development and
                             ;

organisation of scientific education to the endless
series of battles and skirmishes over evolution and
                                                             ;

to untiring opposition to that ecclesiastical spirit, that
clericalism which in England, and everywhere else,
and to whatever denomination
                                                it                             the
                                                                           is
                                                may belong,
deadly enemy of science.1

The " battles and skirmishes over evolution " were

              Huxley into well-conceived plan of
now resolved  by

                      1

                                          i. a
campaign in which all the forces that come of the

                 Coll. Essays, p. 17.
            TH'E MAN  55

widest knowledge and most varied experience were to
be used in applying the doctrine of evolution to the
demolition of beliefs which, in the degree that they

are untrue, must be mischievous. But he was not

merely critical and destructive : he razed only that he

or others might raise. In the Prologue to his Essays
on Controverted Questions he says that --

The present incarnation of the spirit of the Renas

cence differs from its predecessor in the eighteenth
century, in that it builds up, as well as pulls down.
...That of which it has laid the foundation, of which it
is already raising the superstructure, is the doctrine of
            a doctrine which is no specula
Evolution,
tion, but a generalisation of certain facts which may
be observed by any one who will take the necessary

trouble.1

Hence the inclusion therein of all that is of deepest
import to man. Hence the inevitable, however tardy,
supersession of theology as a body of speculative
dogma by a religion having correspondence with the
constitution and needs of human nature ; and the

gradual displacement of ethics resting on ancient and
shifting codes and conventions by ethics founded on
what, after ages of sore testing, man has proven to be
best for the welfare of society, and, therefore, as a
social being, for himself.

    Huxley's health, however, remained so indifferent

that he needed stimulus to work. It came in unusual

                                 1 Coll. Essays, v. pp. 41, 42.
56 HUXLEY

form from an article in the Nineteenth Century of
November, 1885, in which Mr. Gladstone made a re

view of Dr. Reville's Prolegomena to the History of
Religions the vehicle of obsolete arguments in support

of harmony between the Mosaic cosmogony and the

theory of organic evolution. Re-stated by a man

whose high authority in matters political had led

many (for the logical faculty                1              as yet, in the em

bryonic stage in the majority of minds) to accept him  is,

as an authority upon everything else, these arguments,

refuted, as they had been, over and over again, had to

be dealt with once more. Huxley was the man for

the task. The article, " he used humorously to say,

so stirred his bile as to set his liver right at once "
                                                                                                                         '
indeed, stagnation making him "unendurable to him
                                                                                                                                  ;
tsoelf"aPnrdoveivdeernycbeod"y       else," he said that he was thankful
                                     for specially devolving on Glad
                                   Co. the function of keeping " 'ome
stone, Gore,
'

           &

                                  2
'appy for him."
   The controversies                 thus involved, together with

essays on philosophical and social questions, filled the
time between long intervals of broken health, and of
sojourns on Alpine summits. Arolla made him feel

young again
1
                              :" Balm                             air

                                                                                   ;And
                                                                                                                      »
                                   floating   on thy    mountain
                                   healing   sights to
                                                               "

                                                         see

II. 425.                                                                                                                 II. 269.
           THE MAN                                   57

but, eager to return to active life, he was " glad to see

one's own dear native mud again. There is no
foreign mud to come near it." 1 London, however,

with its social beguilements, had long ceased to at

tract him, and the old home in Marlborough Place

(charged for many a guest with delightful memories
of Sunday evenings, with their conversation grave and

gay), where he had lived since 1872, was given up,

and Eastbourne fixed upon. There, through a timely

legacy, he was able to build himself a house which he
called Hodeslea, the ancestral form of the family

name. There he lived from 1890 until his death,

dividing his time between his books, his garden, and
his grandchildren. He left it only at short and rare

intervals to discharge the remnants of duties devolv
ing upon him as honorary Dean of the Royal College
of Science and as a Trustee of the British Museum.

One notable journey was made in 1892. Fifteen
years before then, Lord Salisbury had invited Hux

ley's opinion as to a " formal recognition of dis

tinguished services in science, literature, and art by
the granting of titles." Against this Huxley ex
pressed himself strongly.2 But when the dignity of

a Privy Councillorship was offered him, he accepted

I it,                                   Donnelly --
                                    J.
because, as he wrote to Sir

have always been dead against orders of merit and

·II. 103.                               »I. 359.
                                    HUXLEY

the like, but I think that men of letters and science
who have been of use to the nation (Lord knows if I

have) may fairly be ranked among its nominal or
actual councillors. 1

So, in August, 1892, he went to kiss hands at Os

borne, remembering, as he passed the old Victory,

" that six-and-forty years ago he went up her side to
report himself on appointment as a poor devil of an
assistant-surgeon." In the following October he was

present at Tennyson's funeral, and but for a biting
wind, would have been at Owen's in the following
December. His "opinion of the man's character"

never altered ; but death " ends all quarrels," and at

the request of Owen's grandson and biographer he

contributed a chapter on " Owen's Place in Anatom

ical Science," which enabled him to pay honest tribute
to the value and importance of Owen's work in that
branch of biology. Friends were falling out of the
ranks : in the autumn of 1893 Jowett, Tyndall, and
Sir Andrew Clark passed away, bringing home the

thought that " one should always be ready to stand at

attention when the order to march comes." 2
   Oxford had seen little of Huxley since the day of

his famous duel with its bishop in i860. Ten years

later, Pusey and his party had prevented the confer

ring of the degree of D.C.L. on Owen --although he

1 II. 323.  » II. 368.
                    THE MAN                          59

was persona grata to the Episcopal bench -- as well as

on Froude and Huxley. But, tardily following the
sister and other universities, Oxford reversed the de

cision    in 1885.      Eight years   later, Huxley   revisited
        home of                        deliver the   Romanes
the "               lost causes " to

Lecture on Evolution and Ethics. The occasion may

rank as historic.

   The Sheldonian Theatre was thronged before he
appeared upon the platform, a striking presence in his
D.C.L. robes, and looking very leonine with his long
silvery gray hair sweeping back in one long wave
from his forehead, and the rugged squareness of his
features tempered by the benignity of an old age
which has seen much and overcome much. He read

the lecture from a printed copy, not venturing, as he
would have liked, upon the severe task of speaking it

from memory, considering its length and the impor
tance of preserving the exact wording.1

   In August, 1894, the temptation offered by the
meeting of the British Association at Oxford to re

new a visit was too strong to be resisted, if only for the

contrast of feelings which the occasion would awaken.

Huxley might aptly have applied to himself the ancient

words with which he ended his lecture On the Coming

of Age of the Origin of Species : " The stone which

the builders rejected the same is become the head of
the corner." Lord Salisbury was president, and in

his address, while admitting that Darwin had, " as a

                                 1 II. 356.
6o HUXLEY

matter of fact, disposed of the doctrine of the im
mutability of species," he raised a number of dis
ingenuous objections to the general theory of what he
ironically called the " comforting word, Evolution,"

objections evidencing the "biassed amateur" and the

"representative of ecclesiastical conservatism and

orthodoxy." Huxley had consented to second the

vote of thanks to the president, and although " the

old Adam, of course, prompted the tearing of the ad
dress to pieces, which would have been a very easy

job," he had perforce to content himself with " con

veying criticism in the shape of praise." 1 However,

he dealt with the " polemical dexterity " of the Mar
quis and gave him " a Roland for his Oliver " in an
article on " Past and Present " in Nature, 1st No
vember, 1894. In that month the Royal Society put

its final seal to Huxley's life-work in awarding him
the Darwin medal ; and in his speech at the anniver

sary dinner acknowledging the compliment, a speech
whose impressiveness can never fade from the mem
ory of those who heard he also set the "seal to his

ministry " in emphasising his belief
it,
                              by      Mr. Dar
that the views which were propounded

win thirty-five years ago may be understood hereafter
as constituting an epoch in the intellectual history of
the human race. They will modify the whole system

»II. 379.
THE MAN  61

of our thought and opinion, our most intimate con
victions.

   With the exception of a hurried visit to London

in January, 1895, to join as spokesman in a deputation
to Lord Salisbury on a cause near his heart, that of

London University Reform, he never left Eastbourne

again. The last thing which he wrote was a criticism
of Mr. Balfour's "quaintly-entitled" (the happy
phrase is Mr. Leslie Stephen's) Foundations of Belief.1
He had to deal with the same vagueness, elusiveness,
and want of insight into the position travestied which
is the feature of Mr. Gladstone's polemics, and which
make Mr. Balfour, trained as he is in the same at

mosphere of obscuration of the truth and of dialec

tical fencing, the intellectual representative of that
master of the art of mystification. In returning the
proofs of the first part of the article to the editor of

the Nineteenth Century, Huxley wrote :--

   My estimation of Balfour, as a thinker, sinks lower
and lower the farther I go. God help the people

who think his book an important contribution to

thought ! The Gigadibsians 2 who say so are past

   1 See infra, p. 204.
      · " You Gigadibs who, thirty years of age,
           Believe you see two points in Hamlet's soul
          Unseized by the Germans yet --which view you'll print."
                         --Bishop Blougram's Apology -- BROWNING.
                                   (Quoted by Huxley, Nineteenth Century,
                                   March. 1895, P- S2&)
62 HUXLEY

divine assistance.1 . . . A. B. is the incarnation
Iof Gigadibs.
               should call him Gigadibsius Optimus

Maximus?

The second part was never published ; its incomple-

tion has curious parallel in the following extract from

a letter written by Huxley to Tyndall in 1854: --

   The poor fellow vanished in the middle of an un
finished article, which has appeared in the last West
minster, as his forlorn Vale ! to the world. After all,
that is the way to die, -- better a thousand times than
drivelling off into eternity betwixt awake and asleep

in a fatuous old age.3

From March onwards old complications were ag

gravated by influenza, and although he threw this ofF,

it left him weaker for the struggle, yet hopeful of the

issue. On the 26th June he wrote in cheerful tone

to his old friend Hooker; but on the afternoon of the
29th he passed away, " the Fates," as
leaving him " clear and vigorous mind   he   had prayed,
                                            to the end.
                                       "4

It has become a fashion to more or less burden a

man's biography with tributes to his worth from his

friends. Such " appreciations," as these witnesses to

character are called, weaken rather than strengthen,

since their presence implies their possible necessity.

Of these credentials Huxley stands in no need. He

is his own witness in the work which he did, and in

·II. 400.      »II. 430.  *I. 121.          «IL 361.
                 THE MAN                              63

the spirit which informed it. Those who knew him

best loved him most, and none came into touch with

his eager, sympathetic, breezy, and altogether beauti

ful nature without receiving an impulse to higher

aims. Of spotless integrity in every relation, and

single-minded in every purpose, he went on from

strength to strength, because each step made the

rightness of the path which he had chosen more
manifest. One " who never turned his back, but
                          "
marched  breast  forward     ;  unswayed  by motives  of

worldly prudence ; undeterred by authority which

could produce no valid warrant of its claims ; gov

erned by " morality touched by emotion," and guided

by reason within limits which none have defined so

well, --he remains alike an example and an inspiration

to all men for all time.
                        II

THE DISCOVERER

   In the preface to the eighth volume of his Collected
Essays Huxley says : --

It must be admitted that the popularisation of
science, whether by lectures or by essays, has its
drawbacks. Success in
for those who succeed.  this  d"eppaerotpmleenwt hhoasfaiitls  "petarkilse

                        The

Iftheir revenge by ignoring all the rest of a man's work,
and glibly labelling him a mere populariser.                   the

falsehood were not too glaring, they would say the
same of Faraday, and Helmholtz, and Kelvin. 1

They said it of Huxley. In a recent compilation

entitled One Hundred and One Great Writers, issued
under the editorship of so well-equipped a scholar as
Dr. Richard Garnett, Huxley's work is described as

" that of the populariser ; the man who makes few

original contributions to science or thought, but states

the discoveries of others better than they could have
stated them themselves." And, doubtless, that is a very
common impression about a man the titles of whose
original scientific papers 2 fill ten pages of the appendix

   1 P. vii.
   » Now collected in four volumes under the editorship of Sir
Michael Foster and Professor E. Ray Lankester.

                                                        64
                   THE DISCOVERER                                65

to his biography. 1 The fact
                        :                      he loomed so large
                               it
in the public eye as the most luminous expositor of
the theory of organic evolution, as the proclaimer ofis,

its significance, and as the protagonist in the great

revolution which   :    has brought about, that the im

portance of his discoveries in biologyit           is is  obscured.

    And there  is  further explanation, which             given  by

Mr. Chalmers Mitchell in his admirable monograph,

    Thomas Henry Huxley        a Sketch        of  his Life and

    Work. He says --

       The years that have passed since 1850 have seen
    not only the most amazing progress in our knowledge
    of comparative anatomy, but almost revolution in
                                               a

    the methods of studying it. Huxley's work has been
    incorporated in the very body of science. A large
    number of later investigators have advanced upon the
    lines he laid down and just as the superstructures of
                   ;

it a  great building conceal the foundations, so later

    anatomical work, although  has only amplified and

    extended Huxley's discoveries, has made them seem
    less striking to the modern reader. The present
    writer, for instance, learned all that he knows of

    anatomy in the last ten years, and until he turned to
       for the purpose of this volume he had never re

    ferred to Huxley's original paper. [Mr. Chalmers
    Mitchell   here speaking of the Memoir on the
            ;
                  is

                                           It
    Medusae.] When he did so, he found from beginning
    to end nothing that was new to him, nothing that was
    strange all the ideas in the memoir had passed into
    the currency of knowledge, and he had been taught
                                               was only when he
them as fundamental facts.

                        'II. 460-470.
66 HUXLEY

turned to the text-books of anatomy and natural his
tory current in Huxley's time that he was able to
realise how the conclusions of the young ship-
surgeon struck the President and Fellows of the Royal
Society as luminous and revolutionary ideas. 1

And again : --

    Huxley's work upon birds, like his work in many
other branches of anatomy, has been so overlaid by
the investigations of subsequent zoologists that it is
easy to overlook its importance. His employment
of the skeleton as the basis of classification was suc
ceeded by the work of others who made a similar use
of the muscular anatomy, of the intestinal canal, of

the windpipe, of the tendons of the feet, and many

other structures which display anatomical modifica
tions in different birds. . . . Huxley's anatom
ical work was essentially living and stimulating, and
too often it has become lost to sight simply because
of the vast superstructures of new facts to which it
gave rise.2

    The centring of Huxley's interest in the apparatus
and functions of living things has been named, as also
the opportunity for exercise of this which his voyage
in the Rattlesnake supplied. The dredge brought
him strange dwellers of the deep sea -- fantastic in
form, delicate in structure, and exquisite in colour.
These he sketched with his facile pencil, dissected,

   iPp. 34, 35.
    8 lb., p. 137. The third, fifth, and eighth chapters of Mr.
Chalmers Mitchell's book are to be strongly commended for the
clear and accurate account of Huxley's original work which they

furnish.
THE DISCOVERER  67

and, whenever chance offered, compared, giving
special attention to the family of the Medusae, his
memoir on which laid the foundation-stone of his

scientific fame. It should be noted that that memoir

was written in 1848, eleven years before the publica
tion of the Origin of Species, because in determining
the value of any scientific, and, especially, of biolog
ical work, its chronological place must be taken into
account. In science the Old and the New Dispensa

tion may be severally defined as the Pre-Darwinian
and the Post-Darwinian, and perhaps a brief survey
of what advance towards knowledge of the funda
mental unity of living things had been reached during
the Old Dispensation may make clearer the bearing
of Huxley's discoveries, and explain why their signifi

cance was not apparent even to himself.

    The great name of Aristotle is associated with the
earliest attempt at a classification of animals. This
was based, in the main, on likenesses of external

structure, and was accepted, without fundamental
variation, for the long period of eighteen hundred
years. The first step towards any important revision
was taken, in the seventeenth century, by Ray,

"the father of modern zoology." In the eighteenth

century Boerhaave's experiments proved that all liv
ing things are built up of the same materials, while
Hunter demonstrated the likenesses in animal
68 HUXLEY

structure. Towards the close of that century,
LinriEeus had completed his great scheme of classifica
tion of plants and animals, dividing the latter into six

classes : the Vertebrates into mammals, birds, am

phibians (including reptiles), and fishes ; and the
Invertebrates into insects and worms. Aristotle had

conceived of life as a ladder whose steps represented

the several animals in ascending scale : Lamarck (to
whom Huxley pays high tribute with genuine in
it

          a
                                          1),
sight, depicted as many-branched tree, and there

fore, as interrelated and interdependent. Cuvier re

duced Linnaeus's six divisions to four Fertebrata, or
;
              ;

                                                 :
backboned (fishes to men) Mollusca, or soft-bodied
(snails, oysters, etc.) Articulata, or jointed (spiders,
bees, ants, etc.), and Radiata, or rayed (jelly-fish,

polyps, sea-anemones).                                             by  which, in the mid
   Meanwhile, the microscope,

dle of the seventeenth century, Malpighi had made

pioneer discoveries, was becoming more and more the

important instrument of examination of the internal
structure of living things, and hence opening the way
to inquiry into their origin and history. The study
of anatomy advanced to comparison of the structures
and of the several corresponding organs in divers
plants and animals, and of the functions discharged

     those organs; hence the rise of the comparative
                                   n. 59-
by

                                                                1
        THE DISCOVERER                    69

method, with its demonstration of fundamental rela

tions between living things. Schleiden discovered
that the cell is the unit of plant-life ; and Schwann

proved that the same is true of animals. Harvey's

formula of development, "All life comes from an

egg " (omne vivum ex ovo), gave place to the doctrine
of omnis cellula e cellula. The lowest animals are one-

celled, or, sometimes, a loosely connected cluster of
cells ; all other animals are built up of a number of
cells, whence tissues and organs are developed. In
1844, five years after Schwann's demonstration, Von
Mohl showed that each cell contains a viscous, gran
ular-looking, highly active substance, the result of a
very complex union of carbon (to which Haeckel as
signs the chief activity), hydrogen, oxygen, and nitro
gen. This substance is known as protoplasm, and
in Huxley's familiar phrase, "the physical basis of
life." Some years before this, Von Baer had observed
that the embryos of birds, dogs, fish, and other back
of
           of

                                                   1

                                I.

                             It

                                       it is
                                                                                          is,
boned animals, including man, are all alike during

their earlier stages.  concerning Von Baer's

writings that Huxley said none had made so great an

impression on him down to the publication of the

Origin  Species1; and was in Von Baer's Law

Development that Mr. Spencer found hints and

evidence supporting his own theory of advance

                       175, and cf. 163.
70 HUXLEY

from the simple to the complex as applied to the

cosmos.

   The effect of these discoveries was to produce an
unsettled feeling as to the truth of the doctrine of the
fixity of species. Lamarck was the most prominent,
but not the only, naturalist of the eighteenth century

to suggest that the various species had not been sepa
rately created, but had been developed by sundry
causes, operating through long ages, from a few

simple forms. It was a perilous step in those days of

the long-reaching secular arm to throw doubt on the
account of the creation contained in a document
which God Himself was believed to have inspired;
but the doubt once harboured, a mass of facts telling
against the orthodox view came into unwonted sig
nificance. Every scheme of classification hitherto
propounded had assumed the immutability of the
several groups ; the conception of any fundamental
relation of the several types to a common primitive
type was unborn ; and the most superficial comparison
between the vertebrates, in which some structural re

semblances were obvious, and the loose and confused
medley covered by the term invertebrate, was suf
ficient to negative any idea of an underlying unity
that might be broached.

    The illustrious Cuvier regarded the several groups
as the outcome of a preordained plan of the Creator,
THE DISCOVERER        71

and believed that each successive annihilation of plants

and animals was followed by a fresh creative fiat.
His most distinguished pupil, Owen, likewise ex
plained the succession of species as the operation of

" a continuously creational law." But, nevertheless,

facts were pouring in which could not be thus inter
preted. The fossil-yielding rocks, whose contents

both these great anatomists were arranging, making

the dry bones tell the story of a long and connected
life-history, and of the descent of certain existing ani

mals along well-marked ancestral lines, were to prove
the most sure foundation on which the doctrine of

"Iforganic evolution rests. Lyell's Principles of Geology
raised the question,  natural causation is compe

tent to account for the not-living part of the globe,
why should it not account for the living part ? "

Herbert Spencer was asking which was the more ra

tional theory to account for the existence of millions
of species :--

   Is it most likely that there have been ten millions
of special creations ; or is it most likely that by con
tinual modifications, due to change of circumstances,
ten millions of varieties have been produced as varie
ties are being produced still ? 1

   The answer to that question -- an answer which in
volved the putting of more momentous questions --

                             1 Leader, 20th March, 1852.
72 HUXLEY

was not forthcoming for another seven years. As for
Huxley's position in the matter, he says, in the chap

ter " On the Reception of the Origin of Species,"

which he contributed to Darwin's Life and Letters,

that he was " not brought into serious contact with

the 'species' question until after 1850." He had

" long done with the Pentateuchal cosmogony," and
he rejected all theories of " archetypal ideas," " per

fecting principles," and the like ; but the frequent

discussions which he had with Mr. Spencer from

1852 onwards failed to drive him from his "agnostic

position." His difficulties were twofold : --

Firstly, that up to that time the evidence in favour
of transmutation was wholly insufficient ; and sec
ondly, that no suggestion respecting the causes of
transmutation assumed, which had been made, was in

any way adequate to explain the phenomena.   Look
ing back at the state of knowledge at that
                                            time, I

really do not see that any other conclusion was

justifiable.1

He sums up his attitude in two words, as that     of

" critical expectancy."

      " Wandering between two worlds : one dead,

          The other powerless to be born."

At his first interview with Darwin he expressed,
" with all the confidence of youth and imperfect
knowledge," his belief in the sharpness of the lines

                    1 Darwin's Life and Letters, ii. p. 188.
THE DISCOVERER                            73

of demarcation between natural groups, and in the
absence of transitional forms.

  I was not aware, at that time, that he had been many

years brooding over the species question ; and the
humorous smile which accompanied his gentle
answer, that such was not altogether his view, long
haunted and puzzled me. 1

The incident may have recalled to his mind an inter
view with Faraday in the old student days at Charing
Cross Hospital, of which he tells in one of his letters
from the Rattlesnake. He had made one of the man

ifold attempts to realise perpetual motion, and, having
put his scheme on paper, took it to the Royal Institu

tion, at the door of which he ran against " a little
man in a brown coat." The " little man " was Fara
day, who, although he knew nothing of Huxley, at

once looked at the plan which he had drawn, and

then asked him if he " was acquainted with mecha

nism, what we call the laws of motion ? "

   I saw that all was up with my poor scheme, so

after trying a little to explain, in the course of which

I certainly failed in giving him a clear idea of what I
would be at, I thanked him for his attention, and

went off as dissatisfied as ever. 2

   Needless to say, as with himself and Darwin, the
two were to meet in very different relations in a few

1 Darwin's Life and Letters, ii. p. 196.  8 1. 22.
74 HUXLEY

years, when Huxley's sense of humour would impel
him to remind Faraday of the lesson learned from

him.

   The more important of Huxley's original contribu
tions to biological science may now be set forth, with

as much freedom from technical terms as the subjects

permit.

   The discoveries of Schleiden and Schwann in cell-
structure, as well as those of Von Baer in compara
tive embryology, were known to Huxley when,

" with microscope lashed to the mast," he examined
the fragile organisms, " as the sand of the seashore
innumerable." To those discoveries he made an im

portant addition in detecting that the Medusae are

built up of two cell-layers, or " foundation-mem

branes," enclosing a stomach-cavity. From the outer
layer the skin and nervous system (as to the ex
istence of which latter, since proven, Huxley was at
the time doubtful) are developed ; and from the inner
layer the alimentary and other organs are developed.
 He also found that the reproductive organs are exter
 nal, and that all the Medusae have thread-cells where

 with poison is discharged at their prey. He then
 made search for the presence of these several features
 in other families of the Hydrozoa, and found unity
 of plan throughout. In modern classification, there
 are three grades of animals : the Protozoa, which em
                  THE DISCOVERER  75

brace only the one-celled ; and the Coelenterata and
Ccelomata, grouped as many-celled, under the term

Metazoa. Even this scheme is under modification --

the animals known as sponges being now assigned a

separate place as " an independent and sterile branch

of the tree of life," a branch, perhaps, in direct
descent from the one-celled organism.1 The Me

dusae, hydra, and sea-anemones are grouped under

Coelenterata, or hollow-bodied, comprising all two-

layered animals.  The Ccelomata comprise all

animals in which a third foundation-membrane has

been developed, and which possess a coelom, or true

stomach, with blood-vessels. They embrace every

animal from a worm to a man.

   Huxley's next step was to compare the two founda
tion-membranes of the Coelenterata with the serous

and mucous layers of the embryos of vertebrates ; and

here, although he then guessed it not, he made a con

tribution of the highest importance to the doctrine of

descent. Von Baer had shown the resemblances be

tween all back-boned animals in their passage from

the embryo to the adult state, and Huxley showed
that, in still earlier stages of their development, they
exhibited the two foundation-membranes of the

Coelenterata, thus recording, as it were, the history

  1 A Treatise on Zoology. Part II. The Porifera and Coelen

terata. Edited by E. Ray Lankester, F.R.S.
76 HUXLEY

of their evolution from those lower organisms. It is

easy enough to us, looking back, to see what a key to
the proof of the fundamental unity of living things
this supplied ; but even the prevision of Huxley,
shown so markedly in many ways, was obscured by
the dominance of the notion of fixity outside certain
well-marked lines. For in 1853 ne writes that "there
is no progression from a lower to a higher type, but
merely a more or less complete evolution of one
type." Nevertheless, his acute comparison between
the Ccelenterata and the Coelomata was destined to
supply proof of the progression which he questioned.
His discovery, says Professor Allman,

that the body of the Medusas is essentially composed
of two membranes, an outer and an inner, and his
recognition of these as the homologues of the two
primary germinal leaflets in the vertebrate embryo, is
one of the greatest claims of his splendid work on the
recognition of zoologists. This discovery stands at
the very base of a philosophical zoology, and of a
true conception of the affinities of animals. It is the
ground on which Haeckel has founded his famous
Gastraea-theory, and without it Kowalesky could never
have announced his great discovery of the affinity of
the Ascidians and Vertebrates, by which zoologists

have been startled. 1

    Noting, by the way, that before Huxley sailed in
the Rattlesnake, he had made the interesting discovery

                                          1I. 40.
                   THE DISCOVERER                 77

that the composition of the blood of the lancelet, a

very low vertebrate, approached that of the blood of
the higher vertebrates, we find his work on the Me
dusae followed by a further contribution to knowledge
of organic relation in an examination of the structure
of the sea-squirts, or Ascidians, so called from their

resemblance to a double-necked bottle (Greek asiidion,
a small bottle). These animals are found singly, and
also in clusters, and interest in them, as hinted in the

quotation from Professor Allman, has deepened since
the discovery that they are in the line of the develop

ment from invertebrate to vertebrate which ends in

man himself. Still feeling his way towards the great
central doctrine of unity, denial of which is the only

heresy from which a man need pray to be delivered,

Huxley made Schwann's cell-theory the basis of ex

amination into the identity of structure in plants and

animals. He showed --and this with luminous skill
    the famous "   lay sermon " on       " The
in  Life " --that                                 Physical Basis
                   the cell is the       unit of  structure, and
of

not the unit of function ; that, in technical terms, it

is morphological, not physiological, the " protoplasm "

being the fundamental element. "Although," re
marks Professor Ray Lankester --

iTtheisoryfo"rtywayseaprusblisshinecde,  the " Review of the Cell

                                         and although our knowledge
of cell-structure has made immense progress during
78 HUXLEY

those    --forvtiyz.,yethaarst,   yet   the   main contention of that
article                          cells   are
                                              not the cause but the re

sult of organisation, in fact are, as Huxley says, to
the tide of life what the line of shells and weeds on
the seashore is to the tide of the living sea -- is even

now being reasserted, and, in a slightly modified form,

is by very many cytologists admitted as having more
truth in it than the opposed view and its later out
comes, to the effect that the cell is the unit of life in

which and through which alone living matter mani

fests our activities.1

   The contents of the Scientific Memoirs show that in
all the papers which Huxley contributed to the Royal

Society and other learned bodies, his researches were

ruled not so much by the desire to classify and label
specimens as to establish affinities between organisms,
and to supersede the ill-assorted jumble, which, for
example, lumped crabs and bees together under one

heading, by an orderly and demonstrable classification.

Down to 1854, when he succeeded Forbes at the
School of Mines, his studies had been restricted to
invertebrates ; but from that period, fossil forms, for

which, as already remarked, he had no taste,2 were to
occupy a main portion of his time. They appeared
to take him off the main track that might lead to a
great generalisation : he saw no solution of the prob
lem of transmutation save in study of the living
thing ; there was, as he said in a lecture at the Royal

1 I. 140.                                     » Ante, p. 10.
                    THE DISCOVERER                                                                                             79

Institution in 1855, " no real parallel between the

successive forms assumed in the development of the

life of the individual at present, and those which have

appeared at different epochs in the past." But, so

complete was the revolution effected by the Origin of
Species, that in 1878 he wrote: --

   On the evidence of palaeontology, the evolution of
many existing forms of animal life from their prede
cessors is no longer an hypothesis but an historical

fact.1

While, in an address to the British Association at
York two years afterwards, he said : --

If the doctrine of evolution had not existed, palae

ontologists must have invented
                        by
                                          it,
                                                                           is
                                                                          it
                                    so irresistibly
forced upon the mind the study of the remains of

the Tertiary Mammalia which have been brought to

light since 1859.2

    Huxley soon found that extinct animals also afforded
play for his favourite inquiry into the architecture and
affinities of organisms, and hence, in his hands, the

fossil became, as were, living thing, bringing
message from the past. His inquiry into the char
acter of some supposed fish-shields from the Down-
ton sandstone, near Ludlow, led to the revolutionising
of old theories concerning the earliest fishes. He
showed that the huge creatures named, from the com-
                    it
                                    a
                                                                                      a

Coll. Essays, ii. 226.                                                                                                         II. 241.
1

                                p.

                                                                                                                            s
8o HUXLEY

plex structure of their teeth, Labyrinthodonts, are

allied to fishes, amphibians, and reptiles ; and if the

intermediate forms between birds and reptiles are not

so clearly traceable as he and others then held, his

demonstration of the affinity between the two was one
of his most brilliant successes.

   One great consequence of these researches was that
science was enriched by a clear demonstration of the

many and close affinities between reptiles and birds,
so that the two henceforth came to be known under

the joint title of Sauropsida, the Amphibia being at
the same time distinctly more separated from the
reptiles, and their relations to fishes more clearly sig
nified by the joint title of Ichthyopsida. At the same
time proof was brought forward that the line of the
descent of the Sauropsida clearly diverged from that
of the Mammalia, both starting from some common
ancestry. And besides this great generalisation, the
importance of which, both from a classificatory and
from an evolutional point of view, needs no com
ment, there came out of the same researches numer
ous lesser contributions to the advancement of mor

phological knowledge, including among others an
attempt, in many respects successful, at a classification
of birds.1

But what will, perhaps, make closer appeal to the

general inquirer, is the story of the fulfilment of

Huxley's prophecy as to the discovery of the pedigree

of the horse, which, down to 1870, had been traced

to a three-toed ancestor.                                Foster.

   1 " Obituary Notice of T. H. Huxley," by Sir Michael
Proc. Royal Society, vol. lix.
THE DISCOVERER  8l

   The ungulate or hoofed quadrupeds are divided into

the odd-toed and the even-toed, the toes never exceed

ing, except in the case of monstrosities, five on each
limb. The horse, whose nearest allies in descent are

the tapir and the rhinoceros, belongs to the odd-toed
or Perissodacty la (Greek, perissos, uneven, and daktulos,

finger). In the horse of to-day the toes have become

absorbed, so that what is called its " knee " corre

sponds to the position of a man's wrist ; the metacar

pus, or " cannon-bone," answers to the third or
middle finger of the human hand ; the " pastern,"
" coronary," and " coffin " bones answer to the joints

of that finger, and the hoof to its nail. The smaller,

or " splint bones," represent our second and fourth

fingers, and some small bony prominences at the

bases of these probably represent our first and fifth

fingers.1

   Fossil remains of horses of the existing type are found
as far back as the later Tertiary period ; in the later
Miocene or middle Tertiary beds, horse-like animals
with three toes, the middle one of which touched the
ground, have been discovered, while the early Mio
cene deposits have yielded an animal with horse-like
characters having three complete toes. Here the
European evidence comes to an end, and in summa-

   1 On the general structure and modifications see The Horse, by
Sir W. H. Flower, chaps, iii., iv.
82 HUXLEY

rising it in his presidential address to the Geological

Society in 1870, Huxley said that --

if the expectation raised by the splints of the horses
that, in some ancestors of the horses, these splints

would be found to be complete digits, has been veri

fied, we are furnished with very strong reasons for
looking for a no less complete verification of the

e""xaapvteaucvstua"stio"noaf t   that the    three-toed   Plagiolopbus-Wke
                                the horse   must have    been a five-toed
                                some early
                                            period.1

   In 1876, when visiting America, he was shown by
Professor Marsh the remarkable fossil found, among
others, in the Eocene formations of North America,
to which the name Orohippus was given, and which

was then the oldest known " member of the equine
series." It had four complete toes on the front limb,

and three toes on the hind limb, besides other features
linking it with the chain of equine ancestry. The
discovery evidenced that the accepted theory of the
European origin of the horse must be abandoned in
favour of America, into which continent that animal,

having become extinct, was imported by the Spaniards.

   In commenting on this wonderful " find," in a
lecture given at New York in September, 1876,

Huxley repeated the prophecy uttered six years be

fore : --

                              1 Coll. Essays, viii. p. 361.
                THE DISCOVERER                                     83

   The knowledge we now possess justifies us com
pletely in the anticipation that, when the still lower
Eocene deposits, and those which belong to the Cre
taceous period, have yielded up their remains of an
cestral equine animals, we shall find, first, a form with
four complete toes and a rudiment of the fifth digit
in the hind foot ; while, in the older forms, the series
of digits will be more and more complete until we
come to the five-toed animals in which, if the doctrine
of evolution is well-founded, the whole series must

have taken its origin.1

   The prophecy was fulfilled two months afterwards in
Professor Marsh's discovery of complete skeletons of

a five-toed animal in the early Eocene deposits at
Wasatch in North America. The existence of the

fossil form, which is named Phenacodus, was known

to Professor Cope three years before by its teeth alone.
The unearthing of with all the bones in due place,
the terminal bones of the toes showing that they were
a
encased in hoofs, enabled palaeontologists to assign
     1                                          is
place  the ungulate group, the type, as shown                    by it
               in
the size of the brain-pan, being extremely low.
                                          2
"This," remarks Sir W. H. Flower, " exactly in
                                   is

                               it,
accord with what now generally known of the pro

gressive diminution of the size of the brain in all

groups of animals the farther back we pass from the

present time."

Reference has been made already to the famous

American Addresses, p. 89.                   2  The Horse, p. 22.
84 HUXLEY

book in which Huxley demonstrates the physical and
psychical identity of man and the higher apes with a
completeness never before attempted, but the con
sideration of some of the effects of that demon

stration will have more fitting place in the next

chapter.

   Omitting any account of Huxley's minor discover
ies, the last one of importance to be noted takes us
back to 1878. In that year, while he was Fullerian
Professor at the Royal Institution, he delivered a
lecture on the origin of the skull in vertebrates.1 In

1806, Oken, a German naturalist of somewhat

dreamy type, when walking in the Hartz Forest,
picked up the dried skull of a sheep, and the idea

struck him that it was an expanded vertebral column.

The priority of idea was, apparently with justice,

claimed by Goethe, who saw      in   it a correlate to his
                                 of
theory of the " transformation       plants "--i. e., that

every part of a plant is made up of stem and leaf,

modified for the particular function it has to perform.

But what secured unquestioned belief in the view that

the skull " is formed of a series of expanded vertebrae

moulded together," was the support given to it by

Owen, "who was at that time the leading vertebrate

anatomist in England," and whose indorsement may

be in some measure explained by the seeming ac-

          1 Ante, p. 17.
THE DISCOVERER  85

cordance of the theory with his belief in " archetypal

ideas."

   Huxley, ever acting on his own maxim, " to regard

the value of authority as neither greater nor less than
as much as it can prove itself to be worth," was by
no means convinced of the truth of the vertebral

theory, since it lacked such confirmation as compara
tive embryology might be expected to supply. After
examining a number of skulls of fishes, beasts, and
men, he was satisfied that each skull is built upon a

common plan, and that the primitive skull in the
lowest or cartilaginous fishes, where traces of the

original vertebrae might be expected, " is an unseg-

mented gristly brain-box, and that in higher forms the
vertebral nature of the skull cannot be thought of for

a moment, since many of the bones, for example,
those along the top of the skull,' arise in the skin.
. . . It may be true to say that there is a primi
tive identity of structure between the spinal or verte

bral column and the skull, but it is no more true that

the adult skull is a modified vertebral column than it

would be to affirm that the vertebral column is a

modified skull." This demolition of a hitherto un

challenged theory added to the strain on the relations

between Owen and Huxley, but that minor result was
of no moment to the latter, the larger issue of whose

labours lay in the " marking an epoch in England in
86 HUXLEY

vertebrate morphology," and in " enunciating views
which, if somewhat modified, are still, in the main,

the views of the anatomists of to-day." 1

   Linnaeus says that " fossils are not the children,

but the parents, of rocks," and the interest aroused in
the contents of the fossil-yielding rocks when Huxley
went to the School of Mines was extended to the

rocks themselves. During his more official connec
tion with the Geological Society as Deputy-President
in 1862, and as President in 1869 and 1870, he de
livered three addresses, each of which holds matter of
permanent value. As already shown, the latest of
these, which was entitled "Palaeontology and the
Doctrine of Evolution," dealt with the ancestry of
the horse ; but it embraced the more general question
of the evidence as to intermediate links between
species supplied by the fossiliferous rocks. This in
volved a revision of opinions expressed in the address
of 1862, and the clear deliverance that Huxley enter

tained " no sort of doubt that the Reptiles, Birds, and

Mammals of the Trias are the direct descendants of

Reptiles, Birds, and Mammals which existed in the
latter part of the Palaeozoic epoch, but not in any
area of the present dry land which has yet been ex

plored by the geologist." In the 1862 address ref-

    1 Sir Michael Foster, '' Obituary Notice of T. H. Huxley,"
Proc. Royal Society, vol. lix.
THE DISCOVERER  87

erence was made to the two facts established by
palaeontology : 1. That one and the same area of

the earth's surface has been successively occupied by

very different kinds of living beings ; 2. That the
order of succession established in one locality holds
good, approximately, in all.

   The inference which geologists had drawn from
this was that wherever rocks containing the same
kind of fossils are found in widely separated parts of
the globe, they were formed at the same time. Cor
respondence in succession came to be looked upon as
correspondence in age. Huxley, on the other hand,
argued that the presence of fossils identical in type in
distant rock-formations pointed to an opposite con
clusion. On the theory of special creation the ap
pearance of the same animal remains in the same
order of strata in different zones was explicable. But
on the theory of evolution considerable periods of
time must have elapsed to permit of the migration of

animals from place to place. Therefore, Huxley

suggested that the ambiguous and misleading term

" synchronism " should be discarded in favour of the
term " homotaxial," as indicating that the presence

of certain fossils in the same relative position in the
succession of strata indicated a similarity of order, but
net an identity of date.

   In the 1869 address he discussed the interesting
88 HUXLEY

question of the age of the earth as determining the
length of time which elapsed before it became cool
enough to be the abode of life. On this question the

physicists and the biologists were at issue.

   At the outset the earth was a mass of glowing, in
candescent gas, hurled-off, like its fellow-planets,
from the vast nebula which was to condense into the
solar system. Passing, under the continuous loss of

heat, from the gaseous through the liquid and viscous
to the solid state, it reached a degree of temperature
which permitted of the existence of life upon its sur
face. The first living things were plants, and the
carbon, which is an essential element in their struc

ture, could not be detached from the atmosphere

except at a temperature " somewhat above the freez

ing-point, and somewhat less than half-way to the

boiling-point of water." Hence the question, At
what period of its history did our globe, or that por
tion of it on which life first appeared (probably, as

BufFon suggested, the polar area, as this would be the

earliest to cool), arrive at that temperature ? To this

the mathematical physicists, at the head of whom
stands Lord Kelvin, essayed answer, the data for

which were supplied -- I, by the rate at which the

earth parted with its store of heat ; 2, by the decrease
in the length of its day ; and 3, by the time that the
sun, as the source of life, has illuminated the earth.
THE DISCOVERER  89

Of these, only the briefest summary is here possible.

As to the first, Lord Kelvin (then Sir William
Thomson) assumed that the matter of which the
globe is made up is uniform throughout, and, there
fore, that the rate at which it has parted with its heat
is uniform. After hesitating between the statement

that " the consolidation cannot have taken place less

than twenty million years ago, nor more than four
hundred million years ago," Lord Kelvin agreed that

" some such period of time as one hundred million
years ago " might be taken as a safely approximate

estimate. As to the second, when the earth and

moon were very near each other, the rotation was

enormously quickened, and, as the moon retreated,

the earth's rotation slowed, involving the gradual

lengthening of the day. The retardation is due to
the friction of the tides, which, under the pull of sun,
and, in far greater degree, of moon, act as a brake

upon the globe, increasing the day by about twenty-

two seconds of time in every century. The period
of the earth's habitability was reached when the day
was approximately what it is now, permitting of the
alternations of light and darkness, heat and cold, and
other conditions now prevailing. Lord Kelvin esti
mates " that the centrifugal force at the time of solid

ification cannot have been more than three per cent,

greater than it is at present, and, therefore, having
90 HUXLEY

regard to the known rate of retardation of the earth's
rotation, this event occurred not more than one hun
dred million years ago."

   As to the third, physicists are agreed that the main
tenance of the sun's energy is to be explained as due
to the heat generated by the falling-in and resulting
collision of the particles of matter of which he is
composed, involving the shrinkage of his diameter at
the rate of two hundred and twenty feet yearly, or
four miles per century. Lord Kelvin, admitting that
"the estimates are necessarily very vague," is of

opinion that " the sun may have already illuminated

the earth for as many as one hundred million years ;
but it is almost certain that he has not illuminated the
earth for five hundred million years."

    Commenting on the indefiniteness of these and the
foregoing estimates, Huxley aptly remarks that --

Mathematics may be compared to a mill of exquisite
workmanship, which grinds you stuff in any degree of
fineness, but, nevertheless, what you get out depends
on what you put in ; and as the grandest mill in the
world will not extract wheat-flour from peascods, so
pages of formulae will not get a definite result out of

loose data.1

    But although some mathematicians of lesser calibre
thought that Lord Kelvin had conceded too long a

                               1 Lay Sermons, p. 216.
             THE DISCOVERER                             91

period, there was sufficient accord between them to

make the biologists feel themselves in a tight place.

Reckoning, from the rate at which materials, through

the agency of rivers, are being deposited on ocean-

bottoms, how long a time was necessary for the for

mation of the sedimentary rocks, and of rocks pre

sumably within the life-period, the aggregate thickness
of which is estimated at about fifty miles, they found

the years allowed by the mathematicians wholly insuf

ficient. Darwin was much concerned. Writing to

Wallace in 1869, he says: "Thomson's views of

the recent age of the world have been for some time

"Ione of my sorest troubles;" and again, in 187 1,
can say nothing more about missing links than what I

Ihave said.  should rely much on pre-Silurian times ;

but then comes Sir W. Thomson, like an odious

spectre." Huxley was in no wise disturbed.

   Biology   [he said]  takes her time from geology.
The only    reason we   have for believing in the slow

rate of the change in living forms is the fact that they
Ifpersist through a series of deposits which, geology in
forms us, have taken a long while to make.              the

geological clock is wrong, all the naturalist will have
to do is to modify his notions of the rapidity of

change accordingly. And I venture to point out that
when we are told that the limitation of the period

during which living beings have inhabited this planet
to one, two, or three hundred million years requires a
complete revolution in geological speculation, the onus
92 HUXLEY

probandi rests on the maker of the assertion, who
brings forward not a shadow of evidence in its

support. 1

    Meantime, occasion was given to eager adversaries
to say, " Behold how good and how pleasant a thing
                                 "
it  is  to  see  this  discord      and  it  is  not  surprising  that
                                !

the hope was nurtured in the minds of many that so

serious a disagreement would in some way wreck the

doctrine of evolution. That reluctant convert to the

theory of the mutability of species, Lord Salisbury,

did not fail to press home the difficulty in his Presi

dential Address to the British Association. After re

ferring to the " penurious spirit " shown by Professor

Tait in cutting down Lord Kelvin's estimate of one

hundred million years to ten million years, he chaffed

their opponents with revelling in the prodigality of

the ciphers which they put at the end of the earth's

hypothetical life.

    Long cribbed and cabined within the narrow bounds
of the popular chronology, they have exulted wantonly
in their new freedom. They have lavished their
millions of years with the open hand of a prodigal
heir indemnifying himself by present extravagance for
the enforced self-denial of his youth. But it cannot
Ifbe gainsaid that their theories require at least all this
elbow-room.            we think of that vast distance over

which Darwin conducts us from the jelly-fish lying

                       1 Lay Sermons, p. 213.
                        THE DISCOVERER              93

on the primeval beach to man as we know him now ;

if we reflect that the prodigious change requisite to
transform one into the other is made up of a chain of

generations, each       advancing by a minute variation

from the form of        its predecessor, and if we further

reflect that these successive changes are            so minute
that in the course of    our historical period      -- say three
thousand years -- this  progressive variation       has not ad

vanced by a single step perceptible to our eyes, in
respect to man or the animals and plants with which
man is familiar, we shall, admit that for a chain of
change so vast, of which the smallest link is longer
than our recorded history, the biologists are making
no extravagant claim when they demand at least many
hundred million years for the accomplishment of the

stupendous process. Of course, if the mathematicians
are right, the biologists cannot have what they demand.

If, for the purposes of their theory, organic life must

have existed on the globe more than a hundred million
years ago, it must, under the temperature then pre

vailing, have existed in a state of vapour. The jelly
fish would have been dissipated in steam long before
he had had a chance of displaying the advantageous
variation which was to make him the ancestor of the

human race. I see, in the eloquent discourse of one
of my most recent and most distinguished predecessors
in this chair, Sir Archibald Geikie, that the contro

versy is still alive. The mathematicians sturdily
adhere to their figures, and the biologists are quite

sure the mathematicians must have made a mistake.

I will not get myself into the line of fire by inter
vening in such a controversy. But until it is adjusted
                                     for returning a verdict of
t"henotlaiptyrovmenay"  be excused  wider issues the Darwinian
                         upon the

school has raised.1

                        1 Times, 9th August, 1894.
94 HUXLEY

   Lord Salisbury unwittingly helped the cause which
his instincts prompted him to hinder. With that pre
vision of the seer in combination with the skill of the

discoverer, which is the possession only of the rarer
spirits of our kind, Huxley had pierced the core of

the matter when he asked, " Is the earth nothing but

a cooling mass, ' like a hot-water jar, such as is used
in carriages,' or ' a globe of sandstone,' and has its

cooling been uniform ? " And incited thereto by

Lord Salisbury's Address, provocative as it was of

discussion on so many sides, Professor Perry, who
held the common opinion that it was "hopeless to
expect that Lord Kelvin should have made an error

in calculation," examined the subject, not " to substi

tute a more correct age for that obtained by Lord
Kelvin, but rather to show that the data from which

the true age could be calculated are not really

available." The result of that examination was to
challenge Lord Kelvin's assumption of a uniform
state of the materials of the globe, and to show that
" its interior may be of better conducting material
than the surface rock," whereby the cooling of that

surface to a habitable condition would be enormously
quickened, and the life-period pushed back to the four
hundred million years required by the geologists and
biologists. The details of the process by which
Professor Perry arrived at his conclusions are too
                THE DISCOVERER               95

technical and lengthy for reproduction here,1 and,

moreover, it suffices to quote Lord Kelvin's admission

that his estimate may be insufficient. " I thought,"
he says in a letter to Nature, " my range from twenty

millions to four hundred millions was probably wide

Ienough ; but it is quite possible that should have

put the superior limit a good deal higher, perhaps four
thousand instead of four hundred."2 Apropos of

Professor Perry's results, Huxley wrote in a private
"Iletter, under date of 6th November, 1894:
                                             am so

much out of the world now that I had not heard of

the ' rift within the lute ' of the mathematicians.

But that a big crack would show itself sooner or later

I have never doubted."

   It would be easy to fill many pages of this little
volume with a summarised account of Huxley's

original work in biology alone, but the examples

chosen may be taken to constitute his chief claim to

the title of discoverer. They may suffice to show,

in the words of the tribute paid to him by Sir

Michael Foster and Professor E. Ray Lankester in

their preface    to the    collection of his Scientific
Memoirs, that,
                " apart  from the influence exerted by

his popular writings, the progress of biology during

   1 For these, see Nature, 3d January,  1895 > 24tn September,

1896.

   s Nature, 3d January, 1895.
96 HUXLEY

the present century was largely due to labours of his
of which the general public knew nothing, and that
he was in some respects the most original and most
fertile in discovery of all his fellow-workers in the
same branch of science." 1

                          'Vol. L p. vi. (1898).
                Ill

                THE INTERPRETER

   In an essay on the Origin of Species, written in
1860, Huxley admits that two years before then "the

position of the supporters of the special creation
theory seemed more impregnable than ever, if not by

its own inherent strength, at any rate by the obvious

failure of all the attempts which have been made to

Ifcarry it." 1  it was discarded, there was nothing to

replace it ; hence, like institutions for the reform or

abolition of which the time is not ripe, it existed on
sufferance. Emphasis of this fact is necessary for
full understanding of the revolution whereby old

things passed away and all things became new.

   Huxley was a boy of twelve when Darwin, on his

return to England, opened his " first note-book for

facts in relation to the origin of species," speculation
about the possible modification of which had been

incited by his observations on past and present life-

forms on the South American continent. Fifteen

months afterwards, in October, 1838, he read for

amusement Malthus on Population, and he says : --

                1 Coll. Essays, ii. p. 69.

                                 97
98 HUXLEY

    Being well prepared to appreciate the struggle for
existence which everywhere goes on, from long-con
tinued observations of the habits of plants and animals,
it at once struck me that under these circumstances
favourable variations would tend to be preserved, and

unfavourable ones destroyed. The result of this
would be the formation of new species.1

   In 1842 he put his theory into shape, then enlarged

his manuscript from time to time, and with that un

paralleled patience which controlled all his researches,
went on collecting masses of facts and weighing the
evidence deducible from them, not venturing to make
known, save to his most intimate friends, his convic

tions as to the mutability of species. It seemed
"like confessing a murder," he said. And so the

matter drifted until 1858, when there came to him
from Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace, who was living at

Ternate, an island in the Malay Archipelago, a com
munication in which his own theory was propounded,
and in such coincidence of terms that Darwin told

Lyell if Wallace had had his MS. sketch of 1842,
" he could not have made a better short abstract." 2
To complete the parallel, Wallace also was led to
think of " positive checks " by reading Parson

Malthus. After conferring with Hooker and Lyell,
both of whom had seen Darwin's abstract some years

before, it was arranged that Wallace's paper and a

1 Darwin's Life and Letters, i. p. 83.  · lb., ii. p. 1 16.
                 THE INTERPRETER                      99

  precis of Darwin's manuscript should be read at a

   meeting of the Linnean Society, which was held on
   1st July, 1858.1 Hooker says that the interest excited
   was intense, but no discussion, only desultory talk,
  "with bated breath," followed the reading, and the
. matter caused no commotion outside a limited circle.

       Huxley does not appear to have been present, and

  it is doubtful if he knew aught of the proceedings

   save by hearsay. For, writing to Hooker on 5th
   September, 1858, he says, "Wallace's impetus seems

  to have set Darwin going in earnest, and I am re

   joiced to hear we shall learn his views in full, at last.

  I look forward to a great revolution being effected." 2
  And, in his lecture " On the Persistent Types of

   Animal Life," delivered at the Royal Institution on
   3d June, 1859, there is no reference to the Darwin-

   Wallace theory, only allusion to the

hypothesis which supposes the species of living beings
                                      of the gradual
living at any time to be  the result                   modi
fication of preexisting               a hypothesis    which,
                          species --
though unproven and sadly damaged by some of its
supporters, is yet the only one to which physiology

lends any countenance.3

He was not a convert till the book appeared.
" What                         "
           will  Huxley           is the burden  of Darwin's
                         say ?

1 An excellent abstract of the joint Memoir is given by Professor

E. B. Poulton in his Charles Darwin, pp. 65-78.

» I. 159.                         3 Scient. Memoirs, ii. p. 90.

                                      692707 A
IOO HUXLEY

I"letters.  am intensely        curious to hear Huxley's
If Iopinion of my book." "
"Ishall be content."                can convert Huxley I

                          long to hear what Huxley
thinks." 1 Ten days after this, in a letter dated 23d
November, 1859, Huxley, to whom an advance copy

had been sent, tells Darwin that he is " prepared to

go to the stake, if requisite," for the doctrine of

natural   "seIlecatmion,shaarnpde,nisncgentiunpg   the battle from afar,
adds :                                            my claws and beak in

readiness for defense of the ' noble book.' " Darwin

was made happy. He had converted the chief of
doubters, to whom he replied : " Like a good
ICatholic who has received
Inow sing ' Nunc dimittis.'
                                extreme unction, can
                                  should have been more

than contented with one quarter of what you have

said." 2

   Huxley was satisfied that Darwin "had demon

strated a true cause for the production of species."
In a course of lectures to working men delivered in

1863, he said :

  I really  believe that   the  alternative is     either Dar
            nothing, for                          any rational
winism or                 I do  not know of

conception or theory of the organic universe which
has any scientific position at all beside Mr. Darwin's.

1 Life and Letters, ii. pp. 176, 221, 225. What Huxley did
think, after mastering   the central idea of      the book, was, "
                         have thought of that     ! "-- lb., p. 197.  How
extremely stupid not to
   » lb., p. 232.
                           THE INTERPRETER                             101

. . . Whatever may be the objections to his views,
certainly all other theories are absolutely out of court.1

   But doubting, as was his wont, " whatever could

be doubted," he was not satisfied that the evidence

was in all respects complete. He held that full proof

would be obtained only when experiments in selective
breeding from a common stock resulted in the pro
duction of varieties more or less infertile with one

another. In his article on the " Origin of Species "
in the Westminster Review of April, 1860, he says: --

   After much consideration, and with assuredly no
bias against Mr. Darwin's views, it is our clear con

viction that, as the evidence stands, it is not absolutely
proven that a group of animals, having all the char
acters exhibited by species in nature, has ever been
originated by selection, whether artificial or natural.
                                                chfaacrta--ctehravoef
--Groduisptsinchtavainndg   the morphological                          species
                           permanent races, in                         been so

produced over and over again ; but there is no posi

tive evidence at present that any group of animals

has, by variation and selective breeding, given rise to
another group which was even in the least degree in

fertile with the first. Mr. Darwin is perfectly aware
of this weak point, and brings forward a number of
ingenious and important arguments to diminish the

force of the objection. We admit the value of these
arguments to their fullest extent-- nay, we will go so
far as to express our belief that experiments conducted
                              2),
by a skilful physiologist (" instead of by a mere breeder,"
he adds in a letter to Darwin would very probably
obtain the desired production of mutually more or

1  Coll. Essays, ii. p. 467.  2                 195 and cf. ii., 239.
                                                ;
                               I.
102 HUXLEY

less infertile breeds from a common stock in a com

pparerasetinvte,lythifsew"  years. But still, as    the   c"asise  stands     at
                            little rift within the  lute           not to     be

disguised or overlooked.1

   Twenty-seven years afterwards, Huxley referred to
the insecurity of the logical foundation as remaining
in the absence of experiments with the results de
manded ; nevertheless, in the last speech which he

delivered in public, a few months before his death, he
expressed his unshaken belief in the theory

propounded by Mr. Darwin thirty-four years ago as

the only hypothesis at present put before us which
has a sound scientific foundation.2

   It may not be out of place to quote some suggestive

observations on Huxley's contention from an article

on the Life and Letters in a recent number of his
whilom antagonist, but now appreciative, if not
whole-hearted, disciple, the Quarterly Review : --

   It is not difficult to understand the mutual sterility
of natural species as an incidental result of their
separation for an immense period of time. In the
process of fertilisation a portion of a single cell-

nucleus from one individual fuses with a portion from
another individual, the two combining to form the
complete nucleus of the first cell of the offspring,
from which all the countless cells of the future in
dividual will arise by division. Each part-nucleus
contains the whole of the hereditary qualities re-

1 Coll. Essays, ii. p. 75.                                         ·II. 389-
                           THE INTERPRETER

ceived from and through its respective parent, and

must therefore be of inconceivable complexity. We
can only speak in generalities of processes of which

so little is known ; but we cannot be wrong in as
suming that sterility is sometimes due to the fact that

the complexity of the one part-nucleus fails in some
way to suit the complexity of the other.
The length of time required for mutual sterility to be

complete may be inferred from the fact that entirely
distinct, but closely related, species are still partially
fertile in that they can produce hybrid offspring.
When our domestic breeds of pigeons have been en
tirely prevented from interbreeding for some immense
period of time, we may expect that they too will only
produce sterile hybrids, and, later still, not even these.

At present the majority of these breeds are not every

where rigidly prevented from interbreeding, so that an
approximation to natural species-formation has not
even begun. There are others, however, such as the
most widely different breeds of dogs, in which the di
vergence in size is so extreme that interbreeding has
probably been a mechanical impossibility for some
considerable time.1

    Huxley's letters express dissent from the so-called

" Neo-Lamarckian " school, represented by Mr.

Herbert Spencer, which contends that the use and
disuse of organs, together with the action of sur
roundings, produce modifications of structure which
are transmitted to offspring. There are no specific
references to Professor Weismann's Essays in Heredity

(1883), in which, representing the so-called "Neo-
Darwinian " school, natural selection, acting on

                             1January, 1901, pp. 269, 271.
104 HUXLEY

favourable variations, is held to be all-sufficient for

the production of new species ; but, in June, 1886,

Huxley wrote to Mr. Spencer as follows : --

Mind, I have no a priori objection to the transmis
sion of functional modifications whatever. In fact,
as I told you, I should rather like it to be true.
    But   I                                    (with Dar
win, as   I  argued against   the assumption   of a factor
             do with you)
                             of the operation
which, if you will forgive me for saying so, seems as
far off support by trustworthy evidence now as ever

it was.1

To Mr. Piatt Ball he wrote in 1890 : --

  I absolutely disbelieve    in  bouusned-inthoerititaanpcreiorai s--thhies
                             is
evidence stands. Spencer

psychology goes to pieces without it.2

    Huxley's researches in palaeontology and embry

ology strengthened his conviction that " if all the

conceptions promulgated in the Origin of Species which
are peculiarly Darwinian were swept away, the theory

of evolution of plants and animals would not be in

the slightest degree shaken." 3 For him the im

portance of that book lay in its influence beyond the

limits of its theory, which dealt only with living
things. This is put with his usual clearness and

vigour in his chapter on its reception in Darwin's

Life and Letters, and explains his place as foremost

champion : --

1 II. 133.   * II. 268.          » Nature, 1st Nov., 1894.
THE INTERPRETER

   The oldest of all philosophies was bound hand

and foot, and cast into utter darkness, during the
millennium of theological scholasticism. But Dar
win poured new life-blood into the ancient frame ;
the bonds burst, and the revivified thought of ancient
Greece has proved itself to be a more adequate ex
pression of the universal order of things than any of
the schemes which have been accepted by the credu
lity, and welcomed by the superstition, of seventy later
generations of men.

   To any one who studies the signs of the times, the
emergence of the philosophy of Evolution, in the at

titude of claimant to the throne of the world of
thought, from the limbo of hatred, and, as many

hoped, forgotten things, is the most portentous event

of the nineteenth century. But the most effective
weapons of the modern champions of Evolution
were fabricated by Darwin ; and the Origin of Species
has enlisted a formidable body of combatants, trained
in the severe school of Physical Science, whose ears
might have long remained deaf to the speculations of

a priori philosophers.1

In this same chapter Huxley makes a short refer

ence, as to a storm whose tumult has long been

stilled, leaving only a ground-swell, to the " years

which had to pass away before misrepresentation, .

ridicule, and denunciation ceased to be the most

notable constituents of the majority of the multi

tudinous criticisms of the Origin of Species." What
he touches upon with brevity need not be amplified

  1 II. p. 180 ; and cf. Coll. Essays, i. p. 43 ; ix. p. 104.  " Clas.

sical history is a part of modern history : it is medieval     history

which is ancient." --Bagehot's Physics and Politics, p. 169.
     io6 HUXLEY

here. It would fail to interest an age which, lightly

     valuing the intellectual freedom won for but not
                                        is ;
it by  it,
                                                        in it,
            is                                                          by
                without enthusiasm, without aspiration, save

as these are moved       by  ignoble lust of empire or

enervating craving after luxury an age                                            which
     " the coarsest political standard
     ...finally applied                 undoubtingly and

     thought,          over the whole realm of human
                            in which the souls of men have

become void, while into the void have entered
                                               1
     triumph the seven devils of Secularity."
                                                                   in

       But the remnant who care to know through what

tribulation the fighters in the sixties entered the king

     dom of the free may be told that the battle was the

     fiercer    by  reason of divisions in the camp of science,

     whereas the theologians were solid phalanx. Truea
            that one of the earliest converts to Darwinism
       is
           a
     was clerical ornithologist, Canon Tristram (still
     with us), who applied the theory of natural selection

     to explanation of the colours of birds of the Sahara.

     Charles Kingsley, too, was sympathetic; but these

     were as men " born out of due time." Owen's

     malignant attitude has had reference; Sir John

     Herschel said that natural selection was " the law of

     higgledy-piggledy," the exact meaning of which,

     Darwin confessed, puzzled him, as well                                       might;
                1

                                                                              it
     Adam Sedgwick read parts of the book with " abso-

                On Compromise, by John Morley, pp. 14, 37.
           THE INTERPRETER              IO7

lute sorrow, as false and grievously mischievous."

But he hoped to meet Darwin " in heaven."

Whewell's opposition took the form of refusing the

Origin of Species a place in the library of Trinity
College ; Lyell at first, and Carpenter, with others,

throughout, accepted with reservations; while the

tone of the more intellectual organs was reflected in

the Athenaum, for long years an anti-Darwinian

journal. Touching on the theological issues in

volved, it committed Darwin " to the tender mercies

of the Divinity Hall, the College, the Lecture-room,

and the Museum."

On both sides of the Atlantic the drum ecclesiastic

was beaten in pulpits where, needless to say,
vituperative rhetoric did duty for argument ; preachers

in cathedrals and little Bethels were at one in con

demnation of a " brutal philosophy " whose success

meant the denial of Scripture and the dethronement

of God ; while Episcopacy voiced itself through the

Bishop of Oxford's philippic in the Quarterly Review,
                                        exhibited " pre
which, albeit inspired     by  Owen,
                        "  in           with elementary
posterous                      dealing
           incapacity

biology.

There was only one man qualified to take up the

gauntlet. Huxley's prominence as the most capable

interpreter and best-equipped defender of the

Darwinian theory dates from the British Association
108 HUXLEY

Meeting of i860. Apropos of some friction with
Owen in 1852, he said, in a letter to his sister, that

he was " quite ready to fight half-a-dozen dragons."

He was then writing for his living, and, referring to

his jealous rival's " bitter pen," he adds, " I flatter
myself that, on occasion, I can match him in that

department. 1 Eight years after, the serious issues
between himself and the anti-Darwinians, added to
his eagerness for the fray unguibus et rostro. This
was gratified by the opportunity for exercise of a pen
never dipped in malice. By a happy chance the
columns of the Times were opened to him for a
review of the Origin of Species. The book had been

sent to Mr. Lucas, a member of the staff", who " was

as innocent of any knowledge of science as a babe,"
and who, at the suggestion of a friend, passed-on the

copy to Huxley, stipulating only that he should pref

ace the article with a few sentences. The review

appeared on 26th December, 1859, an(^ thereby
Huxley secured the aid of the then influential paper
in "giving the book a fair start with the multitudi

nous readers of the leading journal " -- " the educated

mob who derive their ideas from the Times" as he

said in a letter to Hooker.2 The review is reprinted
in the second volume of Collected Essays, in which,
under the title " Darwiniana," are included allied

»I. 98.     »I. 177.
THE INTERPRETER                           IOO.

articles expository of the doctrine of natural selec
tion, which had appeared in serials or were based

upon popular lectures. They were needed, since
"exposition was not Darwin's forte, and his English
is sometimes wonderful." 1

   The Origin of Species is not easy reading. Thirty
years after its publication, when Huxley, of all men,

might have been expected to have mastered it from

title to colophon, he said in a letter to Hooker, " It is

one of the hardest books to understand thoroughly

that I know of." 2

   Darwin, recluse by temperament and frail health,
content, in the quiet of his Kentish home, to continue
his work of collecting and verifying, was no con
troversialist. Hence the preaching of the new doc
trine and the fighting for it fell to "my general

agent," 3 as he called Huxley ; to " Darwin's bull

dog," as Huxley called himself.4 Not returning rail
ing for railing, but fact-supported argument for

epithet ; albeit sometimes answering " a fool accord

ing to his folly," Huxley made it his chief business to
enlarge to the full the hint which, at the end of the
Origin of Species, Darwin threw out in a brief sen

tence : " Much light will be thrown on the origin of

man and his history." Darwin's desire not to unduly

·n. 190.                                  8 II. 192.
* Darwin's Life and Letters, ii. p. 251.
                                          * I. 363.
IIO HUXLEY

prejudice the minds of readers to whom his theory
was wholly new by too plain an indication of its
bearing, and his anxiety to advance no statement with
out complete investment of fact, explain his reticence.
But it needed no great acuteness on the part of a
critical reader to see that the subject could not be
thus selvedged. The Descent of Man was the logical
supplement to the Origin of Species; but it was not
published until 1871. Explaining in 1894 the posi
tion which he took up in 1860, Huxley says : --

    Among the many problems which came under my
consideration, the position of the human species in
zoological classification was one of the most serious.
Indeed, at that time it was a burning question, in the
sense that those who touched it were almost certain
to burn their fingers severely. . . . Even among
those who considered man from the point of view,
not of vulgar prejudice, but of science, opinions lay
poles asunder. Linnaeus had taken one view, Cuvier
another ; and among my senior contemporaries, men
like Lyell, regarded by many as revolutionaries of the
deepest dye, were strongly opposed to anything which
tended to break down the barrier between man and
the rest of the animal world.

    Huxley then refers to his own hesitation upon the
matter, until Owen's assertion as to certain funda
mental differences of structure in the brain of man

and ape 1 led him to reinvestigate the subject, with
the result that he was satisfied as to the structures in

                                         1 Ante, p. 18.
                   THE INTERPRETER  III

question not being peculiar to man, " but shared by

him with all the higher, and many of the lower apes."

Matters were at this point when the Origin of

Species appeared.

   The weighty sentence, " Light will be thrown on

the origin of man and his history," was not only in

full harmony with the conclusions at which. I had ar

rived, but was strongly supported by them. And in

asmuch as Development and Vertebrate Anatomy
                     Mr.   Darwin's many specialities, it
were not   among           should not be intruding on the
appeared  to me    that I          if I discussed this part
                                   fact, I thought that I
ground he had      made his   own
of the general     question.
                               In
might probably serve the cause of Evolution by doing

so.1

   In the spring of 1861 he gave a course of weekly
lectures to working men, " On the Relation of Man
to the rest of the Animal Kingdom." This was fol
lowed by an invitation from the Philosophical In
stitution of Edinburgh to deliver two lectures upon

the same subject. As " it was only a few years since

that the electors to the Chair of Natural History in a

famous northern university had refused to invite a

very distinguished man to occupy it because he advo
cated the doctrine of the diversity of species of man
kind," Huxley was not prepared for the applause

with which the Edinburgh audience greeted the state

ment that he entertained " no doubt of the origin of
                               1 II. 178.
I I2 HUXLEY

man from the same stock as the apes." But there
were shouts of dissent outside the lecture hall. The

local press was furious at the reception accorded to

that " anti-scriptural and most debasing theory, . . .

standing in blasphemous contradiction to Biblical nar
rative and doctrine." There should have been deep

resentment at this " foul outrage committed upon

them individually and upon the whole species as
' made in the likeness of God,' by deserting the hall
in a body, or using some more emphatic form of
protest against the corruption of youth by the vilest

and beastliest paradox ever vented in ancient or

modern times amongst Pagans or Christians." 1 Thus

wrote the Witness, invective, as usual, doing duty for
argument; while the Scotsman, as Huxley told Dar
win, was "more scurrilously personal, and more

foolish."

The two sets of lectures formed the basis of Evi

dence as to Man's Place in Nature, published in 1863.
The third section of the book dealt with the question

of fossil human remains, concerning which Lyell had

asked for information when preparing his Antiquity of
Man. Well anathematised by the reviewers, the
" old stupid Athenesum" as Darwin called
its readers that " LyelPs object  is                     telling

                                                    it,
                                  to make man old,

Huxley's to degrade him," the book had an imme-

                           'L 194.
THE INTERPRETER  II3

diate success. It remains a classic on the subject,
because, as Mr. Chalmers Mitchell remarks, " the ad
vance of knowledge has only added to the details of
the argument ; it has not made any reconstruction of

it necessary." 1

    An outline of the chapter describing the manlike

apes, and explaining the likenesses and differences be

tween them and man, may help to make clear how

inevitable was a controversy in which Huxley took

the chief part.

   It is obvious that, in any classification of animals

founded on external resemblances, both empiric and ex

pert would agree in grouping the monkeys, those

" blurred copies," often caricatures, of man, with him.
And " the great lawgiver of systematic zoology,"

Linnaeus, places man and the four anthropoid or man

like apes --the chimpanzee, gorilla, orang-utan, and
gibbon --at the head of the Primates, the name given
by him to the highest members of the Vertebrate
class. The chimpanzee and gorilla are sometimes
grouped as of the same genus, but the orang-utan and
gibbon are undoubtedly distinct genera. They are
found only in the old world -- the chimpanzee and
gorilla inhabiting tropical Africa, and the orang-utan
and gibbon southeastern Asia and the Malay Archi

pelago. They are tailless, semi-erect, long-armed,

                          1 Thomas Henry Huxley, p. 185.
1 14 HUXLEY

the aperture of the nostrils pointing downwards,
whence the term catarrhine ; they are arboreal in their

habits, and, mainly, vegetarians.
   The Chimpanzee is about five feet in height, nearly

black, like the negro, has arms which reach below the

knee, and a slightly curved back-bone. (The S-like
shape of man's back-bone is one of the cooperating
causes of his erect position, stability being thereby

given to the structure, so that nine times as great a

vertical force is required to bend it as if it had been
straight. The back-bone of the savage is less curved
than that of civilised man.) The chimpanzee has

one pair of ribs more than man. The feet are flat-

soled, and shorter than the hands, and have an oppo
sable toe, which, in all the anthropoids, acts as a
thumb, the feet being used for climbing and grasping.

The fingers of the hand are long and powerful, but
the thumb is smaller than that of a man, with the

lines and furrows on whose hand those on the hand
of the ape correspond. The impostors who ply the
trade of palmistry may note this fact, either for the
purpose of reading the fate and fortune of the an
thropoids, or, what would be equally reasonable in the
case of their dupes, determining the future of these

from the creases in their trousers. The skull of the

chimpanzee approximates nearest among the anthro
poids to man's, and the brain, which is half the size
THE INTERPRETER  115

of his, has the same ridges or convolutions, although,
in proportion, these are simpler and larger. The
number of teeth in man and the manlike apes is the
same, but in the latter the canines are longer. The
chimpanzee makes its nest in trees, swinging from
branch to branch to a great distance, and leaping with

astonishing agility. " It is not unusual to see the ' old

folks ' sitting under a tree regaling themselves with
fruit and friendly chat, while their ' children ' are
leaping around them, and swinging from tree to tree
with boisterous merriment." 1

   The Gorilla is the largest and most savage of the
four. It is about five feet and a half in height ; its

body is massive and powerful, and covered with coarse
black hair. The arms reach to the middle of the leg,
and, of all the anthropoids, the feet and hands most

approximate to those of man. It has very long

canine teeth, although these are relatively smaller than
in the primitive mammal. Its ponderous body renders
it less agile for arboreal life, hence it dwells chiefly on

the ground, resting its arms on the knuckles of the
hands as it shambles along in a half-swinging motion.
The gorillas live in bands, but are not so numerous

as the chimpanzees : the females generally exceed the

males in number. " My informants all agree in the

assertion that but one adult male is seen in a band ;

    1 Dr. Savage, quoted in Man's Place in Nature, p. 43 (1863).
1 16 HUXLEY

that when the young males grow up a contest takes
place for mastery, and the strongest, by killing and
driving out the others, establishes himself as the head
of the community."1

   The Orang-utan is about four feet in height. Its
body is bulky and powerful, and reddish-brown in
colour, like that of the Malay native. The back-bone

is slightly curved ; the feet are longer than the hands,
and the arms reach to the ankles. Its brain approxi
mates nearest of all the anthropoids to that of man in

structure and appearance. It is a slow and cautious

climber, but on all-fours it can, for a time, outstrip a
man in running. Like the gorilla, it defends itself

with its hands. It is wholly arboreal, making nests

for itself and family, the young remaining for some
time under the mother's protection. In reading Dr.
Alfred Russel Wallace's account of a baby orang
utan, the late John Fiske was struck by the fact that
it had an infancy which is a great deal longer than
that of some lower mammals, but which was very
brief compared with that of the period of human in
fancy. Twenty-five centuries ago Anaximander re

marked that " while other animals quickly find food

for themselves, man alone requires a prolonged period
of suckling." Looking at this fact under the light of

evolution, the theory suggested itself to Mr. Fiske

                        1 Man's Place in Nature, p. 49.
THE INTERPRETER  II7

that the comparatively long duration of human in
fancy is a condition of human intelligence, the period,
moreover, being longer in the civilised man than in
the savage. While in all other animals, in descend
ing scale, little remains to be developed after birth, in
man it is precisely the reverse. The period during
which he remains helpless or dependent upon others
fills a large portion of his life. Puppies, kittens, and
colts are born fully equipped with all the nervous ap
paratus by which they can shift for themselves : they
have nothing to learn from, or to add to, the stock of

inherited qualities. One generation succeeds another
in unprogressive monotony. Whereas, in man, the
period during which the nerve-connections and their
correlative associations necessary for self-maintenance

are being formed lengthens as intelligence becomes

more complex. From this much of great import fol
lows.  For it is this long, helpless period of human

infancy, involving dependence on the parents, which
begets the solicitude, the sympathy, and the self-de
nial of which the strands of family life are woven.
Carried further, there is the development of those re
gardful feelings for others, and of that self-restraint,
which results in the extension of the family unit to
the social unit, all which lie at the base of ethics.

   The Gibbon, smallest and gentlest of the four, is
about three feet in height. Its arms touch the ground
n8 HUXLEY

when it is erect ; the soles of the feet turn inward, a

feature explained by their arboreal functions, and con
cerning which Professor Osborn reports a droll re

mark of Huxley's. He said, " When a fond mother
calls upon me to admire her baby, I never fail to re
spond ; and while cooing appropriately, I take ad

vantage of any opportunity to gently ascertain
whether the soles of its feet turn in, and tend to sup
port my theory of arboreal descent." 1 The chest of
the gibbon approximates nearest to that of man's, and
it has callosities or sitting-pads on the buttocks. It
can run for some distance on its feet, but it lives in
tall trees, and is a rapid leaper, springing as much as
forty feet from tree to tree. Like the chimpanzee, it
fights with its teeth.

   In contrast and resemblance to these four anthro
poid apes is man, " erect and featherless biped," be

tween whom and his semi-erect and hairy congeners

there is no fundamental differences in structure, the

variations being no greater than in any other allied

group of animals. It is true that no anatomist could
mistake the bones of a man for those of a gorilla ;

but the differences between the one and the other are

less than those between a gorilla and the lowest Pri
mates, say, a lemur. Like all other animals, the Pri

mates originate from a fertilised egg-cell; the primor-

                              > II. 424.
      THE INTERPRETER                  119

dial germ of a man, a dog, a bird, a fish, a beetle, a
snail, and a polyp being in no essentially structural
respects distinguishable. Like all other vertebrates,
the Primates pass through a period of embryonic de
velopment, in which the resemblances to one another

are so closely the same both in outward and inward
form and essentials of structure

that the differences between them are inconsiderable,

while, in their subsequent course, they diverge more
and more widely from one another. And it is a gen

eral law, that the more closely any animals resemble
one another in adult structure, the longer and the
more intimately do their embryos resemble one an
other ; so that, for example, the embryos of a Snake
and of a Lizard remain like one another longer than
do those of a Snake and of a Bird ; and the embryos
of a Dog and of a Cat remain like one another for a
far longer period than do those of a Dog and of a
Bird, or of a Dog and an Opossum, or even than those
of a Dog and a Monkey.
   Thus the study of development affords a clear test

of closeness of structural affinity, and one turns with

impatience to inquire what results are yielded by the
study of the development of Man. Is he something
apart ? Does he originate in a totally different way
from Dog, Bird, Frog, and Fish, thus justifying those
who assert him to have no place in nature and no real

affinity with the lower world of animal life ? Or

does  he originate in a similar germ,  pamssotdhifriocuagthionth--e
same  slow and gradually progressive

depend upon the same contrivances for protection and
nutrition, and finally enter the world by the help of the
same mechanism ? The reply is not doubtful for a

moment, and has not been doubtful any time these
120 HUXLEY

thirty years. Without question, the mode of origin
and the early stages of the development of man are
identical with those of the animals immediately below

...him in the scale : without a doubt, in these respects,

he is far nearer the Apes than the Apes are to the
Dog.
otiroigIndin--eantitediscean--lticidaienl nittnhiceatlhpeihnymstohicdeaeleaporrlfyochesistsasgeenssutboriytfiohwnis,hifcbohermfohraee

and    after birth,  winiththethescaalen--imaMlsanw,hiicfhhislieadimulmt eadnid
ately  below him

perfect structure be compared with theirs, exhibits, as

might be expected, a marvellous likeness of organ
isation. He resembles them
another-- he differs from them  as they resemble one
                                as they differ from one
another. And though these differences and resem

blances cannot be weighed and measured, their value
may be readily estimated, the scale or standard of

judgment, touching that value, being afforded and ex
pressed by the system of classification of animals now

current among zoologists.1

   In his general organisation man is most nearly
allied to the Chimpanzee or the Gorilla (in mental

capacity the Chimpanzee appears to be the nearer),

and for the purposes of comparison, Huxley chose

the Gorilla as "a brute now so celebrated in prose
and verse " that " all must have formed some concep

tion of his appearance." In dealing with the most
important points of difference between Man and
Gorilla, he also contrasted the differences which

separate the Gorilla from other Primates.

                     1 Man's Place in Nature, pp. 67, 68.
THE INTERPRETER  121

   The differences in the body and limbs of Man and
Gorilla at once strike the eye. The trunk of the
latter is larger, the lower limbs shorter, the upper
limbs longer, and the brain-case smaller, than in Man.

In the " nobler and more characteristic organ," the
skull, the differences are " immense." The face of

the Gorilla has massive jaw-bones and predominates
over the brain-case; in Man these proportions are
reversed. The surface of the human skull is com

paratively smooth, the brow prominences or ridges

project very little ; in the Gorilla " vast crests are

developed upon the skull, and the brow-ridges over
hang the cavernous orbits like great pent-houses.
The smallest cranium observed in any race of Man

measures 63 cubic inches ; while the most capacious
Gorilla skull measures not more than 34^ cubic
inches. Striking as are these differences, their force
is somewhat impaired in view of the differences be
tween men themselves. The difference in the volume
of the cranial cavity of the various races of mankind

is far greater, absolutely, than that between the lowest

Man and the highest Ape, while, relatively, it is about
the same. For the largest human skull contained 1 14
cubic inches -- that is to say, had very nearly double
the capacity of the smallest -- while its absolute pre
ponderance of 51 cubic inches is far greater than
that by which the lowest adult male human cranium
122 HUXLEY

surpasses the largest of the gorillas. After making
all due allowance for difference of size, the cranial
capacities of some of the lower apes fall nearly as
much, relatively, below those of the higher apes as
the latter fall below man. Thus, even in the im
portant matter of cranial capacity, Men differ more
widely from one another than they do from the Apes ;
while the lowest Apes differ as much, in proportion,
from the highest, as the latter does from Man." 1

" What is true of these leading characteristics of the

skull holds good, as may be imagined, of all minor
features ; so that for every difference between the
Gorilla's skull and the Man's, a similar constant
difference of the same order (that is to say, consisting
in excess or defect of the same quality) may be found
between the Gorilla's skull and that of some other

Ape. So that, for the skull, no less than for the
skeleton in general, the proposition holds good, that
the differences between Man and the Gorilla are of
smaller value than those between the Gorilla and

some other Apes." 2
    Reference has been made more than once to

Owen's assertion that certain cerebral structures -- the
posterior lobe, the posterior cornu, and the hippo
campus minor --are peculiar to man, and to the evi-

   1 Man's Place in Nature, p. 78.
   » Man's Place in Nature, p. 81.
                   THE INTERPRETER                           1 23

dence adduced by Huxley, Flower, and othaff com

parative anatomists in disproof of this, and if any

justification of Huxley's denial of Owen's contention

was needed, this will be found in Professor D. J.

Cunningham's address to the Anthropological section

of the British Association meeting of 1901.                  He

says : --

To us, at the present time, it is difficult to con

ceive how it was ever possible to doubt that the
occipital lobe was a distinctive character of the simian
brain as well as of the human brain, and yet at suc
cessive meetings of the Association (1860, 1861, and
1862), a discussion, which was probably one of the
most heated in the course of its history, took place on
this very point. In the light of our present knowl
edge we could fully understand Professor Huxley

"clobseicnogmethe  discussion by stating that the  question  had
                                                   Indeed,   the
                   one of personal veracity."

occipital lobe, so far from being absent, was developed

in the ape to a relatively greater extent than in man,

and this constituted one of the leading positive dis
tinctive characters of the simian cerebrum. 1

   The advance in degree of complexity of brain-
structure is traceable along the whole series of
animals. In the Invertebrates the brain is a mass
of nerve-ganglia near the head end of the body ; in

the lowest Vertebrate, the fish, it is very small, com
pared with the spinal cord ; in reptiles its mass in

creases ; and in birds it is still more marked. " The

                                    1 Times, Sept. 14, 1901.
124 HUXLEY

brain of the lowest Mammals, such as the duck-billed

Platypus and the Opossums and Kangaroos, exhibits
a still more definite advance in the same direction."

A step higher in the scale, among the placental Mam

mals, the cerebral structure acquires a vast modifica

tion in the appearance of a new structure between
the two halves of the brain, connecting them

together.

In the lower and smaller forms of placental
Mammals the surface of the cerebral hemispheres is

either smooth or evenly rounded, or                 teerxmheibdits"  a very

few grooves, which    "acreonvteocluhtnioicnaslly"                   sulci,"
separating ridges or                                of the substance

of the brain, and the smaller species of all orders
tend to a similar smoothness of brain. But, in the

higher orders, and especially the larger members of
these orders, the grooves or sulci become extremely
numerous, and the intermediate convolutions pro

portionately more complicated in their meanderings,

until, in the Elephant, the Porpoise, the higher Apes,
and Man, the cerebral surface appears a perfect
labyrinth of tortuous foldings.1 . . . The sur
face of the brain of a monkey exhibits a sort of
skeleton map of man's, and in the manlike apes the

details become more and more filled in until it is only
in minor characters, such as the greater excavation
of the anterior lobes, the constant presence of fissures

usually absent in man, and the different disposition

and proportions of some convolutions that the

Chimpanzee's or the Orang's brain can be structurally
distinguished from Man's.2

1 Man's Place in Nature, p. 96.
3 Man's Place in Nature, p. 100.
             THE INTERPRETER                        125

It must not be overlooked, however, that there is a

very striking difference in absolute mass and weight
between the lowest human brain and that of the

highest ape, a difference which is all the more re
markable when we recollect that a full-grown Gorilla is
probably pretty nearly twice as heavy as a Bosjes man,

or as many a European woman. It may be doubted

whether a healthy human adult brain ever weighed
             31 or 32   ounces, or that the
less than     exceeded                       heaviest gorilla
brain has                20 ounces. This     is a very note
worthy circumstance, and doubtless will one day help
to furnish an explanation of the great gulf which in

tervenes between the lowest man and the highest

ape in intellectual power; but it has little systematic

value, for the simple reason that, as may be concluded

from what has been already said respecting cranial
capacity, the difference in weight of brain between

the highest and the lowest men is far greater, both

relatively and absolutely, than that between the lowest

man and the highest ape. The latter, as has been
seen, is represented by, say, 12 ounces of cerebral
substance absolutely, or by 32 : 20 relatively ; but as
the largest recorded human brain weighed between 65
and 66 ounces, the former difference is represented by
more than 33 ounces absolutely, or by 65 : 32
             Regarded systematically, the cerebral
relatively.
differences of man      and apes are not of more than
generic value -- his    family distinction resting chiefly
on his dentition, his pelvis, and his lower limbs.
Thus, whatever system of organs be studied, the
comparison of their
                        modifications in the     ape series
leads to one and the                              structural
                        same result -- that the

differences which separate Man from the Gorilla and

the Chimpanzee are not so great as those which

separate the gorilla from the lower apes.1

                        1 lb., p. 103.
126 HUXLEY

After thus showing that no line of separation can

be drawn between man and the animals beneath him,

structurally considered, Huxley added his " belief that

the attempt to draw a psychical distinction is equally
futile, and that even the highest faculties of feeling and
of intellect begin to germinate in lower forms of life." 1

   For, in all the higher mammals, the structure and
functions of the nervous system are, fundamentally,
the same ; in the minutest microscopical details, the

sense-organs, the nerves, and spinal cord, and the

brain of a dog, an elephant, and an ape correspond to
Ifthe same organs in man.
                           any part of the mental

apparatus is injured or thrown out of gear, the result
is the same in each case -- functional disturbance or

suspense. The dog and the horse behave as we be

have ; nor can this be otherwise, since their sense-
organs report, of course with vast differences of re

sult, to their central nervous systems the messages

that are transmitted by like apparatus to ours, and,

within the limits of their consciousness, they are af

fected as we are affected, and their actions are ruled
Ifaccordingly. "
                  there is no ground for believing

that a dog thinks, neither is there any for believing

that he feels." To those familiar with the ways of

animals, there is no need to labour the point, and,

" in short," as Huxley says : --

1 Man's Place in Nature, p. 109.
THE INTERPRETER  127

 It seems hard to assign any good reason for denying

 to the higher animals any mental state, or process, in
 which the employment of the vocal or visual symbols
 of which language is composed is not involved; and
 comparative psychology confirms the position in rela
 tion to the rest of the animal world assigned to man
 by comparative anatomy. As comparative anatomy
 is easily able to show that, physically, man is but the

 last term of a long series of forms which lead, by

 slow gradations, from the highest mammal to the al
 most formless speck of living protoplasm which lies
' on the shadowy boundary between animal and
 vegetable life ; so comparative psychology, though but
 a young science, and far short of her elder sister's
 growth, points to the same conclusion.1

Nevertheless, the gulf which separates the man from
the ape and from animals whose intelligence excels
that of the ape, is vast and impassable. Its vastness
prevents some among the qualified few, and of course
the majority of the prejudiced or ill-informed, from
accepting the fact of a common origin of animal and
human mental faculties. Among those who walked

one mile with Darwin, but refused to go " twain,"

the most notable is Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace, the
co-propounder of the theory of natural selection.
He contends that man's spiritual and intellectual na

ture " must have had another origin, and for this

origin we can only find adequate cause in the unseen

universe of spirit." In like manner, the late Pro-

                                    1 Coll. Essays, vi. p. 125.
128 HUXLEY

fessor St. George Mivart, while admitting that man's

body " was evolved from preexisting material," as

...serted that " his soul was created in quite a different

way by the direct action of the Almighty." 1
And in a lecture on the functions of the brain, the

late Sir James Paget contended that man's possession
of reason and conscience

establish between him and the brutes a great differ
ence, not in degree alone, but in kind. The spirit
differs from all the faculties in its independence of our
organisation, for it is exercised best in complete
abstraction from all that is sensible : it is wholly in
dependent of the organisation of the brain, wholly
independent also of the education of the understand
ing. 2

   This was written in 1854, when psychology was at

the level represented by Dr. Carpenter, who was
satisfied that --

There is an entity wherein man's nobility essentially
consists, which does not depend for its existence on
any play of physical or vital forces, but which makes

these forces subservient to its determination.3

   That Dr. Wallace accepts, with astounding cre

dulity, the genuineness of the tricks of " spiritualist "

charlatans of the Eusapio Paladino type; that St.
George Mivart died, despite his treatment at the

1 Genesis of Species, p. 325.  » Memoir, by his Son, p. 175.
' Mental Physiology, p. 27.
THE INTERPRETER  120,

hands of his Church, a professed Catholic ; that Sir

James Paget accepted, with never a doubt, the dogmas
of orthodoxy ; and that Dr. Carpenter was a Unita

rian,--goes far to explain the attitude of each. But,

surely, these opponents of the doctrine of continuity,

by which Evolution stands or falls, had they made

the effort, must have found it difficult to envisage the
moment of supernatural intervention in the history
of man when he passed from the mortal to the im

mortal ; when the " entity " which was not of him

was injected into him. There is an inevitable vague
ness in the words of each writer ; but it must be as

sumed that they all reject the old " preformation "

theory of Leibnitz and Haller, and agree as to the im

portation of a separate " ens," or " being," into every

man of woman born, whereby the individual becomes

" a living soul." That being so, it is permissible to

ask at what stage of gestation or of subsequent de
velopment the supernatural act of special creation,
for that is what it comes to, was effected ? It must

be admitted that, prior to this, man must be at least

potentially, if not, by reason of his slow develop

ment, actually, an animal of highly equipped intel
ligence. There is no need, in the common phrase,

to " pause for a reply," because no reply is possible.
A few words of Huxley's will, as usual, clear the
atmosphere of verbal fog :--
130 HUXLEY

No one who is cognisant of the facts of the case
nowadays doubts that the roots of psychology lie in the
physiology of the nervous system. What we call the
operations of the mind are functions of the brain,
and the materials of consciousness are products of
cerebral activity. Cabanis may have made use of
crude and misleading phraseology when he said that
the brain secretes thought as the liver secretes bile ;

but the conception which that much-abused phrase

Itembodiesnevertheless, far more consistent with

    it is
         is,

               is,
                         is
                                       is

                                           a
fact than the popular notion that the mind
                                                                       is
                                                                               is
                                                                                    a
metaphysical entity seated in the head, but as inde
pendent of the brain as telegraph operator of his
instrument.

             hardly necessary to point out that the doctrine
just laid down what commonly called materialism.
But nevertheless, true that the doctrine contains

nothing inconsistent with the purest idealism. For

laosngHubmefeorer)em--ar"ks'Ti(sas  indeed    Descartes                  had observed
         a                          not our   body we                  perceive when

we regard our limbs and members, but certain im:
                                    by
pressions which enter                         is

                                                                    ;
                                              the senses so that the as

cribing   real and corporeal existence to these im
pressions, or to their objects, an act of the mind as
difficult to explain as that (the external existence of
objects) which we examine at present." Therefore,

    we analyse the proposition that all mental phenom
ena are the effects or products of material phenom
ena, all that means amounts to this; that whenever

those states of consciousness which we call sensation,
if

                    it

or emotion, or thought come into existence, complete
investigation will show good reason for the belief that
                                    those other phenomena of con
they are precededis
                              by

                                                      ;
                                                        a
sciousness to which we give the names of matter and
motion. All material changes appear, in the long-
run, to be modes of motion but our knowledge of
motion    nothing but that of change in the place
                           THE INTERPRETER

and order of our sensations; just as our knowledge
of matter is restricted to those feelings of which we

assume it to be the cause.1

   Were it not, as Huxley says, that " the ignorance

of the so-called educated classes is colossal," there
might be need for apology in restatement of the fact
that man is not descended from the ape. The rela

tionship between them is lateral, not lineal, both being

offshoots of the same stock, but each remaining, of
course in very different degrees of development, iso
lated groups of mammals. The blood-relationship
of the two has naturally prompted the question as to
the missing link. A pertinent question, which has

partial answer in the fact that all intermediate forms
are, in virtue of their transitional character, the least
likely to survive, and in the further fact that the
chances against the preservation of any remains of
the progenitor of man and ape are as manifold as
those against the preservation of any fossils of ani
mals of correspondingly small size. Even in the

period when rudely-fashioned stone tools and weapons
of undoubted human origin abound, the occurrence

of fragments of human skeletons is rare. In the
section on " Fossil Remains of Man " in Man's
Place in Nature Huxley discusses the value of the

evidence supplied by skulls found in various bone-

                              1 Coll. Essays, vi. pp. 94, 95.
I32 HUXLEY

caverns of Western Europe, discoveries to which

several important additions have been made since
1863. Comparing these with the skulls of the low
est savages extant, notably the Australian aborigines,,
he considered that we are not taken "appreciably
nearer to that lower pithecoid form, by the modifica
tion of which man has, probably, become what he

is." Where, then, he asks, " must we look for

primeval Man ? Was the oldest Homo sapiens plio
cene or miocene, or yet more ancient ? In still older
strata do the fossilised bones of an Ape more anthro
poid, or a Man more pithecoid, than any yet known,
await the researches of some unborn palaeontologist ?
Time will show."

   Time has not yet shown. But in 1892 Dr.
Eugene Dubois found in the upper Pliocene beds at
Trinil, on the banks of the river Bengavan, in Java,
a calvaria or portion of skull, two molar teeth, and a

thigh-bone, which he assumed belonged to an animal

named by him Pithecanthropus erectus, or " upright
ape-man." The forehead was low and narrow, the

inner surface of the skull bore impressions of con
volutions, and M. Dubois estimated that the brain was
about twice as large as that of the brain of the largest
anthropoid. Although the shape of the thigh-bone

warranted the inference that the creature walked erect,
it also indicated adaptation to a tree-climbing habit
                 THE INTERPRETER                                           133

absent in the human thigh-bone. Siam and Java
may, in the upper Tertiary period, have been joined

to the mainland ; and these remains of the " upright
ape-man " occur in a region where it is highly prob

able that man and ape became differentiated.

   When Huxley published his book he had to meet
the objection that the belief in the common origin of

man and brute involved the brutalisation and degrada

tion of the former. But, he asks --

Is this really so ? Could not a sensible child confute,

by obvious arguments, the shallow rhetoricians who
would force this conclusion upon us ? Is indeed,
                                                                      it,

true that the Poet, or the Philosopher, or the Artist,
whose genius the glory of his age, degraded from
                 is       is
                   by                    is
his high estate        the undoubted historical probability,

not to say certainty, that he the direct descendant

of some naked and bestial savage, whose intelligence
was just sufficient to make him little more cunning
                          a

than the Fox, and
?                      so much more dangerous than

               is
                 by
the Tiger Or he bound to howl and grovel on
all-fours because of the wholly unquestionable fact
that he was once an Egg, which no ordinary power
of discrimination could distinguish from that of                           a

Dog Or the philanthropist or the saint to give
?

             is

up his endeavour to lead noble life because the
                       a

simplest study of man's nature reveals at its founda
tions all the selfish passions and fierce appetites of
                       Is mother-love vile because
the merest quadruped
a

                         it,
                                                                 ?

                                                                   a
   hen shows     or fidelity base because dogs possess
it?

The common-sense of the mass of mankind will

answer these questions without moment's hesitation.

Healthy humanity, finding itself hard pressed to es
134 HUXLEY

cape from real sin and degradation, will leave the

tbhreoo"dirnigghtoevoeurs  speculative pollution to the cynics and
                           overmuch," who, disagreeing in every
thing else, unite in blind insensibility to the nobleness
of this visible world, and in inability to appreciate the
grandeur of the place Man occupies therein.
   Nay more, thoughtful men, escaped from the blind
ing influences of traditional prejudice, will find in the

lowly stock whence man has sprung, the best evidence
of the splendour of his capacities ; and will discern

in his long progress through the Past a reasonable
ground of faith in his attainment of a nobler Future.1

    Several causes united to give man his preeminence

and distinctive place in the "files of time." The
slow acquirement of the erect position led to the flat
tening of the feet ; to projection of the heel as sup
port ; and to the altered position of the skull with the
added weight of brain which went on pari passu with

new functions, the skull becoming nicely balanced on
the spine, which became more curved, and, therefore,

a better support. The bipedal position set free the
arms from the work of locomotion, enabling man to

use them as organs for grasping things, whereby their
nature was ascertained, and for the manifold purposes
which the struggle for life compelled. Interaction of
brain and hand, together with increased modification
of the thumb as opposable, went on ; while the gre
garious instinct, more and more developed, bound the

                  1 Man's Place in Nature, pp. no, 111.
THE INTERPRETER  I35

members together in ever enlarging groups, whose
mutual dependence led to their permanence, and to
the survival of the strongest.

   To these purely natural factors is to be added the

enormous part played by the evolution of articulate

speech. " Much water has flowed under the bridges "

since David Hartley, a pioneer-anthropologist of the
eighteenth century, of whom Huxley had high appre

ciation, expressed the opinion that, owing to the
shortness of the time which has elapsed since the

Flood, both language and writing must have been
given by direct miraculous agency.1 Small blame to
the philosophers of that time ; but not to those who,

in our own, would place the faculty of speech among
the supernatural endowments of man. For modern

physiology has not only demonstrated that the cortex,
or layer of grey cellular substance, which covers the
cerebrum, is the organ of the mind ; it has localised

the psychic centres to which the several sensory
nerves telegraph their reports from the outer world,
and it has also determined the place of the motor

centre of articulate speech. In discussing the struc

tural changes in the brain which have made possible

the associated movement required for that " priceless

gift," Professor D. J. Cunningham, in the address

  1 Hartley, Prop, lxxxiii., quoted by Leslie Stephen, History of
English Thought in the Eighteenth Century, i. p. 193.
I36 HUXLEY

already referred to, shows by what slow processes of

natural growth it must have been acquired. The

more intelligent of the lower animals communicate

with one another and express their feelings by various

sounds, and the progenitors of man acted likewise.

The actual germs of language existed in a few form

less roots, most of these being natural sounds, whether

in the tumbling of waters or the song of birds, and it

is in the imitation of these sounds that the large

number of words known as onomatopoetic, and the

enormous number of words derived from them, have

their rise. All sounds were supplemented by gestures

and postures, which, among some races, still play a

great part in communication. And it is to a physical

and sensible source that our most abstract and meta

physical terms are traceable. For example, when we

"apprehend" a thing, we "lay hold" of it; when
    " apply " ourselves            " towards  "
we                       we  bend                ;  when
we " transfer " we " carry " ; to " concrete " is to
combine particles together, while to " abstract " is to

remove them ; and few of us remember that in call

ing any one " supercilious " we mean, literally, that

he raises his eyebrows. The choice and currency of

this and that sound obviously lay in the aptness with

which it conveyed the meaning in the mind of the

speaker to that of the listener. Here we may use the

terms of " natural selection " and say that the fittest
THE INTERPRETER  137

for the purpose survived, and passed into the vocabu
lary, becoming the parent of a great group of words.

   Without question, the acquisition of speech became
a dominant factor in determining the high develop

ment of the human brain. To quote Professor Cun

ningham :

   The first word uttered expressive of an external ob
ject marked a new era in the history of our early
progenitors. At this point the simian or brute-like
stage in their developmental career came to an end,
and the human dynasty, endowed with all its intellec
tual possibilities, began. The period in the evolution
of man at which this important step was taken was a
vexed question, and one in the solution of which we
had little solid ground to go upon beyond the material
changes produced in the brain, and the consideration
of the time that these might reasonably be supposed
to take in their development. . . . The struc
tural characters which distinguish the human brain in
the region of the speech-centre constitute one of the
leading peculiarities of the human cerebral cortex ;
they are totally absent in the brain of the anthropoid
ape, and of the speechless microcephalic idiot.
Further, it was significant that in certain anthropoid
brains a slight advance in the same direction might

occasionally be faintly traced, whilst in certain human
brains a distinct backward step is sometimes notice
able. The path which had led to this special develop
ment was thus in some measure delineated. These

structural additions to the human brain were no recent

acquisition by the stem-form of man, but were the
result of a slow evolutionary growth, a growth which
had been stimulated by the laborious efforts of count
less generations to arrive at the perfect coordination
HUXLEY

of all the muscular factors which were called into
play in the production of articulate speech.1

   " It goes without saying " that in his all-round ap

plication of the doctrine of evolution Huxley came
to close quarters with those who demand the exclusion
of the psychical nature of man from its operations.
In one of the last papers that he wrote he contended,

with rigorous logic, that " if man has come into ex

istence by the same process of evolution as other ani

mals ; if his history, hitherto, is that of a gradual

progress to a higher thought and a larger power over

things ; if that history is essentially natural, the fron
tiers of the new world, within which scientific method

is supreme, will receive such a remarkable extension
as to leave little but cloudland for its rival." 2

   The discoveries of the astronomer since the time

of Copernicus had compelled momentous changes in
old conceptions of the relation of the earth to the
other bodies of space -y those of the geologists, from
the time of Hutton and Lyell, had modified ideas con

cerning its age and the processes moulding its surface ;
and those of the palaeontologists, from the time of

Cuvier, had revolutionised theories of the origin of
death as due to the original sin of Adam. A yet

more profound revolution was set afoot when the rude

> Times, September 14, 1901.  2 Nature, November i, 1894.
THE INTERPRETER  1 39

tools and weapons of ancient river-gravels and bone-

caverns brought their witness to man's high antiquity
and primitive savagery, since therein was the further
refutation of the doctrine of his fall on which the

scheme of his redemption rests. To these witnesses

were added those supplied by students of comparative
mythology as to the origin of the Creation, Paradise,

and other legends, evidencing these to be the product
of pre-scientific periods, when myths, gathering sanc
tity with age, became the unquestioned explanations
of phenomena.

    Hence, the old positions, one by one, have been
abandoned on the advance of solid phalanxes of facts,
until the defenders, strong in faith in its ultimate im
pregnability, have made their last stand within the
citadel of Mansoul. But all in vain. The venerable
walls, mounted with the old weapons of obscurant

ism, ignorance, and misrepresentation, have been

stormed by the resistless forces of truth, and although
the opening of the gates to the victor be delayed, his
triumph is assured. But of this conflict -- the Jehad

of Science --in which Huxley was "gladiator-gen
eral " and inspirer, more anon.

   Meanwhile, to return to his work as interpreter, it

must be borne in mind that, hitherto, his exposition
of the theory of evolution had been limited to the
organic. Thus far he followed Darwin, the Origin
140 HUXLEY

of Species not being concerned with the evolution of
the inorganic, nor with the problem of the origin of
life, nor with the relation of the living to the not-
living. As already noted, speculations on these high
matters had their rise in Ionia five or six centuries be
fore Christ, and, after an arrest of a thousand years,
due to political and theological changes, had made a
new start some three hundred years ago. But it was
not until the last century was well advanced that any
attempt to coordinate the several branches of knowl
edge into a harmonious theory of development was
possible, and for the achievement of this the world is

indebted to Mr. Herbert Spencer, whose " Synthetic

Philosophy," dealing with evolution as an all-inclusive
process, begins with the condensation of vaporous
stufF into cosmic systems, and ends with the develop
ment of human society. He explains all phenomena,
from suns to souls, as the necessary results of the per
sistence of force under its forms of matter and

motion, both indestructible, both ever changing, that

which thus persists being " an unknown and unknow

able" power, which we are obliged to recognise as
without limit in space and without beginning or end
in time. Thus, in endless rhythm, are the changes
rung on Evolution and Dissolution from eternity to

eternity. Huxley did " not very much care to speak

of anything as ' unknowable,' and regrets that he made
            THE INTERPRETER                                                       141

the mistake of wasting a capital ' U ' upon it." 1

What he was sure about was that there were many
things concerning which he knew nothing, and which,
so far as he could see, were out of reach of human

faculties.

Whether these things are knowable by any one else
is exactly one of those matters which is beyond my

knowledge, though I may have a tolerably strong opin
ion as to the probabilities of the case. Relatively to
--mofytrsheeealfl,itnieeIsbau--mloiusqsufaitcreoumsnuotrrreey  that the region of uncertainty

                                                               in which   words   play the part
                                                               extensive          could wish.2
                                                                          than I

But his endorsement of Mr. Spencer's contention as

to the fundamental unity of the organic and the in

organic was emphatic. In an address to the Interna

tional Medical Congress in 188 1 he says: --

   In nature, nothing is at rest, nothing is amorphous ;
the simplest particle of that which men in their blind
ness are pleased to call "brute matter" is a vast ag
gregate of molecular -mechanisms performing compli
cated movements of immense rapidity, and sensitively
adjusting themselves to every change in the surround
ing world.

    And living matter differs from other matter in de
gree and not in kind ; the microcosm repeats the
macrocosm ; and one chain of causation connects the
nebulous original of suns and planetary systems with
the protoplasmic foundation of life and organisation. 3

1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 31 1.  See Note, infra.
2 lb., p. 311.                             3 Coll. Essays, iii. p. 371.
142 HUXLEY

   Thirteen years earlier he had said the same thing
on a Sunday evening in November to an Edinburgh

audience. Like his wonderful discourse on " Animal

Automatism," delivered before the British Association

at Belfast, his Edinburgh "lay sermon" on "The
Physical Basis of Life " was spoken without depend

ence on note or reference, and afterwards written out

from memory for publication. Following on the
demonstration of the identical constitution of proto
plasm as the raw stuff which builds up the cell as the
structural foundation of every living thing, Huxley
showed that the protoplasm itself is built up of cer

tain compounds, and that "a threefold unity--namely,

a unity of power or faculty, a unity of form, and a
unity of substantial composition --pervades the whole
living world."

   In whatever form protoplasm is manifest, whether,

as in the very lowest plant or animal, without a
nucleus, or, as in the higher organisms, nucleated,
there are found four of the elementary substances,

carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, in very com
plex union. These non-living materials the plant,

and the plant alone, by some mysterious alchemy,
converts into a living thing, and upon this the animal

sustains life. It is not easy to determine where the

plant ends and where the animal begins, since some

organisms exhibit the characters of both, but, broadly
                  THE INTERPRETER                      I43

speaking, the fact abides that the animal depends on

the vegetable. And, clearly, the vegetable depends,
plus the energy of the sun, on the mineral. Each of
the four elements of which protoplasm is made up
by
                          a

                           by

                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                         is,
itself, ineffective to produce the organic united,

they are stirred  complex movements of astounding

rapidity which constitute the phenomena of life at its

simplest; life whose "hidden bond connects the

flower which girl wears in her hair with the blood

which courses through her youthful veins," and the

" brightly coloured lichen, which so nearly resembles

mere mineral incrustation of the bare rock on
a

            it

                                                    1
which grows, with the painter, to whom                 it it
                                                            is
stinct with beauty, and the botanist, whom                       in
                                                       feeds

with knowledge."

   The dependence of the highest upon the lowest

living things, and, to certain extent, the close rela
              is
                           is a
tion between them, too obvious to be questioned                                 ;

but so great      the reluctance to push things to con

clusions involving collision with traditionally-received

ideas, that this admission does not affect the common

belief in difference of kind, say, between the stand
a

                       1

                           is

                            i. of

                                                 it
                                                                            is
ing corn and the man who reaps                         for his daily

bread. Still stronger                                  the feeling that life itself,

whether in the weed or the philosopher,                                         an
"entity " in matter, but not
                                                       it; the view which, as

                  Call. Essays, p. 131.
144 HUXLEY

has been seen, Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace and others

hold concerning the introduction of a spiritual faculty
into man at some stage of his development being ex
tended, in the popular mind, to the introduction of

life on the globe as due to the direct action of the
Almighty. Huxley's assertion that "living matter

differs from other matter in degree and not in kind,"

in is,therefore,            hard saying, and few there be who
accept it. It seems to shatter " the mighty hopes that
          ;
                         a
make us men." The theory that man has descended,

an unbroken chain, like all the other higher ani
mals, from simple life-forms, offends his " pride of
life " but the theory that there
                                  no difference in
                                  is

                                                          It

                                                                                          .
kind between him and the dust on which he treads

excites his repugnance, and stirs him to revolt.

was repellant enough to make him one with the tardy
snail and the immobile oyster, for the question of his
immortality seemed thereby involved with that of

theirs but to make him one with the lifeless earth

seemed the very " superfluity of naughtiness," and
;
                    a
the outcome of diabolical materialism.

Huxley knew that this cry would be raised when

he went to Edinburgh. And although, as will be

seen, he made "a protest, from the philosophical side,
                            commonly called materialism,' " he
against what                      '
'                                                '
             is

                        '
found himself " generally credited with having in

vented protoplasm in the interests of material
         THE INTERPRETER                                 I45

ism.' " 1 But he proceeded to justify his words by

the following comparison, the design of which was to

show that the ultimate nature of matter is as fully a

mystery as that of mind, and that the terms in which

we speak of the one are equally applicable to the

other.

Carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, when

brought together under certain conditions, give rise to
the complex stuff, protoplasm, which manifests what
is known as life. When two of these elements,

oxygen and hydrogen, are mixed in a certain propor
tion, and an electric spark is passed through them,
they disappear, and the result is water. In the one

case we talk of a " vital force " having stirred the

dead elements into living matter; but in the other

case we do not talk of a something called " aquosity "

having blended the two invisible gases into visible
water. Is not the one process as mysterious as the

other ?

    Does anybody quite comprehend the modus operandi

of an electric spark, which traverses a mixture of

oxygen and hydrogen ?

   What justification is there, then, for the assump
tion of the existence in the living matter of a some
thing which has no representative or correlative in the
                                                         "Waqhuaotsibtyett"er?
Ifnot-living matter which  "gavvietalriitsye "tothiat?n

philosophical status has
.. .     the phenomena exhibited by water are its

         1 Lay Sermons, Preface, p. vii.
146 HUXLEY

Ifproperties, so are those presented by protoplasm, living
or dead, its properties.  the properties of water

Imay be properly said to result from the nature and

disposition of its component molecules, can find no

intelligible ground for refusing to say that the prop
erties of protoplasm result from the nature and dis
position of its molecules.
   It may seem a small thing to admit that the dull
vital actions of a fungus or a foraminifer are the
properties of their protoplasm, and are the direct re
sults of the nature of the matter of which they are
composed. But if their protoplasm is essentially
identical with,
of any animal,   aI ncdanmdoisstcovreear dinlyo  converted into, that
                                                 logical halting-place

between the admission that such is the case and the

further concession that all vital action may, with equal
propriety, be said to be the result of the molecular

forces of the protoplasm which displays it. And if
so, it must be true, in the same sense and to the same

extent, that the thoughts to which I am now giving

utterance, and your thoughts regarding them, are the
expression of molecular changes in that matter of life
which is the source of our other vital phenomena. 1

   The origin of life remains, and will doubtless re
main, an unsolved problem, if for no other reason
than the absolute effacement of the primitive forms,
the fragility of which is to be inferred from all that is
known of the lowest organisms. But the problem of
the origin of water, without which life could not have
been, also remains unsolved. The chemist can both

decompose and produce water; but, as Huxley asks,

                                1 Coll. Essays, i. pp. 152, 154.
THE INTERPRETER  I47

who can comprehend the modus operandi of the electric

spark ? Chemistry has also succeeded in manufac
turing nearly two hundred organic compounds from
dead matter; Professor Britschli has even produced a

substance which simulates protoplasm, --but the
arcana vita remains hidden. Nevertheless, noting

what advances have been made in organic chemistry,
in molecular physics, and in physiology, Huxley

thinks that " it would be the height of presumption

for any man to say that the conditions under which
matter assumes the properties we call ' vital ' may not

be artificially brought together." The manifest inti

mate connection between vital and electrical phenom

ena is a further reason against dogmatism on the

subject. And since the " scientific use of the imagi
nation " has been the handmaid of progress, it is

permissible to speculate, as does Huxley, on the

possible mode of the beginning of life, whose " vital

spark," once kindled, has, like the fire on the altar
of Vesta, known no extinguishment.

   To say that, in the admitted absence of evidence, I

have any belief as to the mode in which the existing
forms of life have originated, would be using words
in a wrong sense. But expectation is permissible

where belief is not ; and if it were given me to look

beyond the abyss of geologically recorded time to the
still more remote period when the earth was passing
through physical and chemical conditions which it can
no more see again than a man can recall his infancy,
148 HUXLEY

I should expect to be a witness of the evolution of

living protoplasm from not-living matter.

   I should expect to see it appear under forms of

great simplicity, endowed, like existing fungi, with
the power of determining the formation of new pro
toplasm from such matters as ammonium carbonates,
oxalates, and tartrates, alkaline and earthy phosphates,
and water without the aid of light. That is the ex
pectation to which
                    analogical reasoning        leads me;
but I beg you once  more to recollect that
                                                I have no
right to call my opinion anything but an act of philo
sophical faith. 1

The success which has attended the search after

fundamental likeness between the earth and its living,

as well as not-living, contents, has followed all obser
vation into the nature and constitution of the system
of which the earth is one of the lesser members.

While the conditions prevailing in the sun and planets

make it certain that life, as we know
                   1                            cannot be

present in them, the differences between them andis
our globe are only, using the term in its chemical              it,
sense, quantitative. They are made of the same
                                                             of
stuff as the globe itself. So, broadly speaking, are

the stars. The year 1859  memorable in science,

not only for the publication of the Origin Species,

but for the triumphant researches of Kirchhoff and

Bunsen into the chemistry of the sun.

In 1802, one hundred and thirty years after New-

                   Coll. Essays, viii. p. 256.
THE INTERPRETER  I49

ton had refracted a sunray on a prism, and shown
that light is made up of differently coloured rays,
Wollaston, using a thin slit to admit the ray, observed

that it was crossed by a few dark lines. In 1814,
Fraunhofer succeeded, by means of yet finer appara
tus, in detecting nearly six hundred of these lines.
He, and following observers, made shrewd guesses as

to their meaning, but another forty-five years passed

before the riddle was read. The details of its solu

tion are given in popular books on astronomy ; and
here it must suffice to say that the lines, which are
now counted in their thousands, reveal the secret of
the chemical constitution of the sun, and tell us that

not only are iron, sodium, and some thirty other ele
ments present in his atmosphere, the spectrum of iron
alone numbering above two thousand lines, but that
the raw materials of protoplasm, notably its most im
portant constituent, carbon, are present also. 1 Kirch-
hoff's discovery was followed by Sir William Hug-
gins's analysis of the light from stars and nebulae,
which proved that the former are made of like
materials as the sun, himself a star of no high magni

tude, and that the latter are gaseous, the vagrant

comets having a spectrum which is a compound of
carbon and hydrogen. The same astronomer also

   1 On the apparent absence of oxygen and nitrogen in the solar
atmosphere, see my Pioneers of Evolution, p. 165.
                                    HUXLEY

ingeniously discovered that a minute displacement of
the lines of their spectra gave a key to the direction
of the movements of the stars in space, while their
colours indicate whether they are in the stages of
youth, maturity, or decay.

   It is a far cry from the apelike man to the nebula,
and yet, in the foregoing rapid summary of cosmic
processes, no warrant can be found for assumption of

any break in causal relations. Nevertheless, when

Huxley made the naked statement that there is no
difference in kind between living and not-living mat
ter ; and when Tyndall, decking the same in rhetor

ical garb, said that " all our philosophy, all our poetry,
all our science, all our art-- Plato, Shakespeare, Newton
and Raphael--are potentia, in the fires of the sun," 1

there can be little wonder that charges of the kind

made by the Presbytery of Belfast, that they " ignored
the existence of God, and advocated pure and simple

materialism," were levelled against them.
    Huxley anticipated this ; and in his Edinburgh

lecture, as later, more elaborately, in Hume and Helps
to the Study of Berkeley? he deals with subjects which
bring us face to face with the ultimate problems of
philosophy. He was no tyro in these : from his early
boyhood, when, reading Sir William Hamilton, he

   1 Fragments of Science, p. 453.

    8 These fill the sixth volume of Collected Essays.
                           THE INTERPRETER

found only " cunning phrases for answers," 1 his in

terest in metaphysics had been deep and constant.

He had only scorn for the logomachies of the

" pure metaphysicians," who attempt to base the

theory of knowing upon supposed necessary and uni
versal truths, and assert that scientific observation is

siimmicppiaolinesssdi,b"lewseheuimcnhslestsvoertsyhuocmsheuctwhruhtohassaraiefrenooantlere"asdphyuoruekldnmosweatnyapthahynadt

the fall of a stone cannot be observed unless the law
of gravitation is already in the mind of the observer.2

   The roots of every system of philosophy lie deep
among the facts of physiology. No one can doubt
that the organs and the functions of sensation are as
much a part of the province of the physiologist as
are the organs and functions of motion or those of

digestion ; and yet it is impossible to gain an ac

quaintance with even the rudiments of the physiology
of sensation without being led straight to one of the
most fundamental of all metaphysical problems. In
fact, the sensory operations have been, from time im
memorial, the battle-ground of philosophers.3

    Wherefore, in the preface to the latest edition of
Hume, he caustically advises those "who desire to
discourse fluently and learnedly about philosophical
questions to begin with the Ionians and to work

steadily through to the latest speculative treatise ; "
while for those who " are animated by the much rarer

desire for real knowledge," and who want to get a

clear conception of the " deepest problems set before

    1 Ante, p. 3. * Coll. Essays, vi. p. 62. » Coll. Essays, vi. p. 291.
152 HUXLEY

the intellect of man," he sees no need to travel out

side " the limits of the English tongue." For this
purpose " three authors will suffice, namely, Berkeley,
Hume, and Hobbes." To which select company

there may be added himself, with advice to master the
sixth volume of Collected Essays and the papers on

Descartes.1

   A materialist, as commonly understood, holds that
the universe is made-up of matter, of which all forms
of activity, whether mechanical or spiritual, are prod
ucts. The substance called matter is thus the sub
stance of all things. This shallow view Huxley

wholly repudiated, but not without protest against the
vulgar idea of matter entertained by the majority of

persons. In an appendix to a paper on the " Meta
physics of Sensation " he shows that what is loosely
and ignorantly spoken of as dead or inert and alto
gether base -- a notion due to Platonists and to the
ologians, both of the East and West-- throbs with

rhythmic movements of incredible rapidity, and is
charged with that element of true mystery wherein
wonder has its abiding source.

   The handful of soil is a factory thronged with
swarms of busy workers ; the rusty nail is an aggre
gation of millions of particles moving with incon
ceivable velocity in a dance of infinite complexity,

                                    1 Ib., i. pp. 166-250.
                    THE INTERPRETER                                          153

Ifyet perfect measure ; harmonic with like perform
ances throughout the solar system.                                 there is good
ground for any conclusion, there is such for the belief
that the substance of these particles has existed, and
will exist, that the energy which stirs them has per
sisted, and will persist, without assignable limit, either
in the past or in the future. . . . Those who are
                    imbued with this view of what is called
"thmoraotutegrhl"y
                    find it a   li"ttlme inddiff"icsuhltoutldo  understand   why
that which           is termed                                  give itself  such

airs of superiority over the twin sister, to whom, so
far as our planet is concerned, it might be hazardous
to deny the right of primogeniture.
Accepting the ordinary view of mind, it is a sub
stance the properties of which are states of conscious
ness, on the one hand, and energy of the same order
as that of the material world (or else                           it would not
                                                                                be
able to effect the latter) on the other                         hand. It is    ad
mitted that chance has no more place
                                                                in the world   of

mind than it has in that of matter. Sensations, emo

tions, intellections are subject to an order as strict and
inviolable as that which obtains among material

things.1

   The question follows, "What can we know of
what we call matter or of what we call mind ? "

And the answer                  So far as the ultimate nature of
        is
          is

                 by
                              is,

                                  it
                                       is
                                              is
either    concerned, nothing. Our knowledge of

both      inferential;                          limited to the impressions

conveyed            the senses to the brain in Huxley's
                                                                :

words, " our knowledge                            restricted to those feelings

of which we assume external phenomena to be the

cause."

                    1  Coll. Essays, vi. p. 285.
154 HUXLEY

   The senses are the gateways of knowledge, and we

assume that impulses vibrating from without enter

these, and are conveyed by the nerves to the central

nervous system -- the seat of consciousness, or of
knowledge of what goes on in the mind. We see,

we smell, we hear, we taste, we touch ; but the

colour, the scent, the sound, the flavour, the hardness

or softness, the warmth or coldness, are not in the

things which we assume to be the cause of these sen

sations. They are in what is called " states of con

sciousness." How the passage is effected from the
nerve-cells to consciousness we have no means of
knowing. The thing is an insoluble mystery. The
mutual dependence of what we call the body and
what we call the mind is certain. We know nothing
of mind apart from matter. We know that the brain
is the organ of thought, and we cannot conceive of
changes in the nerve-cells being produced by con
sciousness, so that the psychical seems wholly sub

ordinate to the physical. Every feeling, every

thought, is accompanied by molecular changes, and

Huxley   expressed the   belief, which the "new       psy
chology                                              later,
         " may justify,  that " we shall, sooner or

arrive at a mechanical equivalent of consciousness,
just as we have arrived at a mechanical equivalent of

heat." 1 That marvellous faculty by which things are

         1 Coll. Essays, i. p. 191.
THE INTERPRETER                                                I55

remembered appears to be due to molecular changes

" which give rise to a state of consciousness, leaving

a more or less persistent structural modification,

through which the same molecular changes may be
regenerated by other agencies than the cause which
first produced them." 1

   Of course no sane person doubts the existence of

an external world, or cosmos, built up, in Lord

Kelvin's phrase, " of coarse-grained matter." Atoms

are not, as Professor Rucker skilfully argued in his

Presidential Address on the " Fundamental Concepts
of Physics " to the British Association at Glasgow in

1901, "merely helps to puzzled mathematicians, but
physical realities," probably made up of simpler parts,
modifications of one prima materia. And in respect
of force, the several modes of motion are explicable
only on the assumption that particles of matter are
being moved. Hence the atomic theory, despite
recent attacks, holds the field. 2 Concerning these
things, the common consciousness of mankind brings

the same report, but the fact no less remains that we

can only assume the existence of beings with minds
like our own. For they are a part of the phenomena

whose ultimate nature, as was said above, we cannot

  1 Coll. Essays, i. p. 215.  Address, see  Times,  September  12,
  2 For Professor Rucker's

1901.
I56 HUXLEY

"know. There is only one abstract certainty possi

ble to man --namely, that at any given moment the
feeling which he has exists. All other so-called cer
tainties are beliefs of greater or less intensity." 1 The
poet-astronomer of Naishapur stretches " lame hands"
across the ages to the modern psychologist :--

        " We are no other than a moving row
            Of Magic Shadow-Shapes that come and go

               Round with the Sun-illumined Lantern held
              In Midnight by the Master of the Show."

But, as Huxley points out, although it is of small con
sequence whether we speak of the phenomena of
matter in terms of spirit, or of those of spirit in terms
of matter, since matter may be regarded as a form of

thought, and thought may be regarded as a property
of matter, there is every reason for using the mate

rialistic terminology : --

    For it connects thought with the other phenomena
of the universe, and suggests inquiry into the nature
of those physical conditions, or concomitants of
thought, which are more or less accessible to us, and
a knowledge of which may help us to exercise the
same kind of control over the world of thought as we
already possess in respect of the material world :
whereas the alternative, or spiritualistic, terminology
is utterly barren, and leads to nothing but obscurity
and confusion of ideas. . . . But the man of
science who, forgetting the limits of philosophical in-

                                  "II. 262.
THE INTERPRETER                   157

quiry, slides from these formulae and symbols into what

is commonly understood by materialism, seems to me
to place himself on a level with the mathematician
who should mistake the x's and y's with which he
works his problems for real entities, and with this
further disadvantage, as compared with the mathema
tician, that the blunders of the latter are of no prac
tical consequence, while the errors of systematic ma

terialism may paralyse the energies and destroy the

beauty of a life.1

   In his repudiation of the coarser materialistic views
of the universe, and in his recognition what insoluble
mystery attends the connection between the thoughts
of a man and the organ of those thoughts, Huxley

was under no delusion that he had disarmed old prej
udices, or secured any deserters from the orthodox

camp. For, in place of conceding anything, he had
only made clearer his hostility towards the super
natural explanations in which alone his opponents
found rest and satisfaction. And seeing to what nar
row dimensions the region once covered by those ex
planations had shrunk before the advance of the forces
of natural knowledge, he pressed on to conquest of

what remained.

1 Coll. Essays, i. pp. 164, 165.
                               IV

                  THE CONTROVERSIALIST

  In a letter to his wife, written at Baden, in 1873,

Huxley says :

We are in the midst of a gigantic movement,
greater than that which preceded and produced the
Reformation, and really only the continuation of that
movement. But there is nothing new in the ideas
which lie at the bottom of the movement, nor is any
reconcilement possible between free thought and tra
ditional authority. One or other will have to suc
cumb after a struggle of unknown duration, which
will have as side issues vast political and social
            I
troubles.          have no more doubt that free              thought
           in                                                sit here
will win          the long-run than I have that I
writing to you, or that this free thought will organise
itself into a coherent system, embracing human life

and the world as one harmonious whole. But this
organisation will be the work of generations of men,
and those who further it most will be those who teach

men to rest in no lie, and to rest in no verbal delu
I--sionpse.rhaps
                  may be able  to help  a little   in  this  direction
                               helped
                  I may have            already.1

   Until his retirement, twelve years afterwards, that
help was, perforce, rendered only fitfully ; but, once
master of his time, Huxley said that whether it was

                                                   1 1- 397-
                                                       158
              THE CONTROVERSIALIST                       1 59

long or short, he should devote it to the work out

lined in the papers on the " Evolution of Theology." 1
There was to be no truce with " that ecclesiastical

spirit, that clericalism, which is the deadly enemy of
science." The battle had gone on, intermittently,
for a quarter of a century. A fortnight after the

famous duel with Wilberforce, when writing to

Hooker about a proposed scientific quarterly, Huxley

jocosely said that its tone would be " mildly episco-

pophagous,"2   and in   "1a8n8y9   he asks   Professor   Ray
                                              educating   the
Lankester if  he sees             chance of

white corpuscles of the human race to destroy the

theological bacteria which are bred in parsons."3
The author of Lay Sermons, let it be said, had the

making of a preacher in him. In the fragment of
autobiography reprinted in the first volume of the

Collected Essays, he tells how in early childhood he

turned his pinafore wrong side forwards to represent a

surplice, and held forth to his mother's kitchenmaids.

And the impression of his homiletic gifts has sly ref

erence in Bishop Thirlwall's Letters to a Friendf

when, speaking of the   "MaemtaopnhgystihcealcoSnoctrieibtyuto(frosutnodeitds

in 1869), he says that

proceedings have been Archbishop Huxley and Pro

fessor Manning."

1 Coll. Essays, iv. chap. viii.              ·I. 210.
                                             4 P. 317.
·II. 234.
i6o HUXLEY

   Polemics, as Huxley said, " are always more or

less an evil." But the lukewarmness which lets error

and corruption pursue their baneful course is a greater
evil. And in the questions at issue between the ex
ponents of the doctrine of Evolution and the defend
ers of orthodoxy and privilege there was no place for

indifference or compromise. It was guerre a outrance.
The supremacy of clericalism involves the thraldom
of the mind, because its submission to an authority

claiming supernatural origin, and, therefore, one not
to be questioned, save at the soul's peril, was de

manded. In ordinary matters, the claimant to author
ity submits his credentials, on the verification of which
his claim is admitted or rejected. And in matters of

such high import as the beliefs which rule a man's
life, it would seem that the same method should apply.
Yet the notion is widespread, even among intelligent
persons, that the credentials required in mundane
things are not to be demanded in what are deemed

higher things. The spiritual " powers that be "--
bishops, priests, and deacons -- " are ordained of God,"

and the documents on which their claims are based

are exempt from scrutiny. The prevalence of such a

notion is explicable only by the fact that the majority
of people govern their workaday lives on principles
different from those which operate in the creeds which
they profess. They rely, in lazy acquiescence, upon
                THE CONTROVERSIALIST                             l6l

the assurances of the official defenders of the faith

that the " Church's one foundation " remains un
shaken. " Their faith," in the words of Professor
W. James, " is faith in some one else's faith, and in

the greatest matters this is most the case." For in

quiry involves effort, and there is ease in travelling
along the line of least resistance.

   In opposition, wide as the poles asunder, to this,

the improver of natural knowledge absolutely refuses
to acknowledge authority, as such. For him, scepti
cism is the highest of duties ; blind faith the one un
pardonable sin. And it cannot be otherwise, for

every great advance in natural knowledge has involved
the absolute rejection of authority, the cherishing of
the keenest scepticism, the annihilation of the spirit
of blind faith; and the most ardent votary of science

holds his firmest convictions, not because the men he

most venerates hold them, not because their verity is

testified by portents and wonders ; but because his ex
perience teaches him that whenever he chooses to

sboriunrgce,theNsaetucroen--vicwtihoennsevienrto  contact with   their primary
                                                  he thinks fit   to test them
by appealing to experiment and to observation -- Na
ture will confirm them. The man of science has

learned to believe in justification, not by faith, but by

verification.1

And it was because clericalism demanded accept

ance of its claims in " blind faith " that Huxley

would make no terms with it.

                              1 Coll. Essays, i. pp. 40, 41.
l62 HUXLEY

I""      am   very glad," he writes to a correspondent,
         you                      of doing battle  with the
  that        see the importance                   of view
                                  the narrowness
clericals.    I am astounded at

of many of our colleagues on this point ! They shut
their eyes to the obstacles which clericalism raises in
every direction against scientific ways of thinking,
which are even more important than scientific discov

erie"s.I desire that the next generation may be less fet

tered by the gross and stupid superstitions of ortho

doxy than mine has been." 1

   He observed that the conversion of a man into a

" clerk in holy orders " was not attended with any ad

dition to his intelligence. On the contrary, it leads
to the cramping of his intellect, since at a fluent pe
riod of life, when he is on the threshold of its problems,
he is required to stunt the further development of his

mind by declaring that he accepts certain beliefs as

final.2 Nor does the clothing him with a shovel-hat,
apron, and gaiters " in the smallest degree augment

such title to respect as his opinions may intrinsically
possess." 3 The emphasising of this in the case of

  If1 II. 234.

   » " the clergy are bound down, and the laity unbound ; if the
teacher may not seek the Truth, and the taught may ; if the Church

puts the Bible in the hand of one as a living spirit and in the hand
Iof the other as a dead letter -- what is to come of it ?
                                                           love the

Church of England. But what is to become of such a monstrous

system, such a Godless lie as this?" (To Professor Dawkins,
1862.) --Letters of (the then Rev.) John Richard Green, p. 110.

   » Coll. Essays, i. p. 249 ; and see Morley's Diderot, ii. p. 50

(note).
             THE CONTROVERSIALIST  1 63

bishops was the more necessary because the degree

of importance with which the lay mind invests any

statement by a cleric is regulated by his position in
             Huxley's " episcopophagy " took hu
the Church.

morous form in the story of a country school lad who

came near the boundary-line in an examination, one

of his blunders consisting in putting the mitral valve,

so-called from its resemblance to a mitre, on the right

side of the heart instead of on the left side. " On

appeal, Huxley let him through, observing, ' Poor

little beggar, I never got them (the valves) correctly
Imyself until reflected that a bishop was never in the
right.' " 1

In opening the campaign, Huxley did not waste

powder and shot on that irreconcilable enemy of

knowledge and the liberty which is its fruit, the

Roman Catholic Church, "the one great spiritual

organisation which is able to resist, and must, as a

matter of life and death, resist the progress of science
and modern civilisation." 2 He divided the clergy of

the Established Church into three sections : " an im

mense body who are ignorant, and speak out ; a small

proportion who know and are silent ; and a minute

minority who know and speak according to their

knowledge." Only with the last-named had he any

thing in common ; but his intellectual honesty caused

1 II. 415.   1 Coll. Essays, Hi. p. 120.
164 HUXLEY

him to sympathise less with the "half-and-half senti

mental school," represented by divines of the type of

Dean Farrar, than " with thoroughgoing orthodoxy,"
as represented by the late Mr. Spurgeon. Of one

and all of them it may be said that his thoughts were

not their thoughts, nor his ways their ways. He

dealt with facts; they played with phrases. They

acted as if " the analysis of terms is the right way of

knowledge, and mistook the multiplication of proposi

tions for the discovery of fresh truth." 1 And he

thought them lacking in straightforwardness.  His
conversation was " Yea, yea," or " Nay, nay " ; theirs

was evasive, or qualifying, when a direct question was

put to them. To him they seemed to confuse much
and to explain nothing. And he felt that if men of

science have not lightened our darkness concerning

many things, theologians have only deepened it. To

mix with them was to inhale a relaxing air wherein

the fibres of veracity were loosened.

Some time before his death, the decay of dogmatic

theology, which a changed intellectual atmosphere had

brought about, was followed by a revival of sacerdotal

ism, the force of which has increased rather than

abated. The result is a general materialising of

" aids to faith." Churches and services are more

ornate ; the sensuous stimuli of music, incense, and

1 Rousseau, by John Morley, ii. p. 338.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  l65

colour are brought into play ; greater stress is laid on
the importance of baptismal and other sacramental
rites, with the consequent aggrandisement of the sac-
erdotalist as their divinely authorised administrator.
The emotions have unwholesome excitation ; the rea

son is drugged. A sermon --if it be not a sleeping-

draught -- makes appeals to the intellect ; it may

convert, or it may fail to convince. But a rite
requires unquestioning acceptance of its supernatural

obligation and nature as the condition of its efficacy.
To partake in it demands no mental effort. This

thaumaturgy in religion has its correlatives in the
pseudo-mysticism of the present day, as in the spuri

ous remedies of " Christian Science " for diseases ; in

the trickeries of spiritualism, whose phenomena, were

they true, would, as Huxley said, " furnish an addi
tional argument against suicide " ; 1 in the charlatanry

of palmistry, astrology, and other quackeries, eviden

cing how superficial are the changes in human nature.

" So little trouble," says Thucydides, " do men take

in search after truth ; so readily do they accept what
ever comes first to hand." 2

    Huxley was well equipped in historical knowledge.
When Dr. St. George Mivart cited Suarez and other
schoolmen in his criticisms on the Origin of Species,

    1 I. 420 ; and see Coll. Essays, v. pp. 341, 342.
   2 I. 20 (Jowett's Trans.).
1 66 HUXLEY

he found his match in Huxley. The outlines of the
course of events following the death of Jesus, which
he gives in his essays on the " Evolution of Theol

ogy," show that he knew ecclesiastical history better
than many ecclesiastics themselves, for these too
often know it only in the idealised or partisan forms

presented by orthodox historians. No thoughtful
student of the past, with all its cross-currents and
complexities, will make the shameful story of religious
wars and persecutions an occasion of reproach against
the Churches of to-day. Humanity has a terrible in

dictment against theology, but the charge cannot be
laid at the door of our contemporaries. Neverthe
less, in the degree that the Church has not purged
herself of the old Adam of the anti-progressive
spirit, she stands condemned before the modern world,
and with no such plea as antiquity might offer. Her
condemnation is complete. Taking history no farther
back than the last century, it will be found that there
was not a movement, political, social, or intellectual,
having as its aim the bettering of the condition of the
people, which she did not oppose tooth and nail. She
lifted no voice against the barbaric criminal code
under which, well within the nineteenth century, two
hundred offences were punishable with death ; 1 her

   1 Old Bailey.-- William Keep, a lad of fourteen years of age,

was indicted for stealing a Bank of England note out of a letter
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  167

bishops opposed the measures for the abolition of
theological tests for public offices, for the removal of
disabilities on Roman Catholics, Jews, and Dissenters ;
in the abolition of slavery in British possessions, and
in the reform of the incredibly horrible state of
prisons, and of the inhuman treatment of lunatics in
this kingdom, she took no initiative; she fought
against unsectarian elementary education ; she still
wages bitter war to enforce the teaching of her dis

credited dogmas ; and, to her even greater shame,

fans and fosters the spirit of militarism in temples on

whose walls are inscribed, " On earth peace, and

goodwill towards men." And, withal, trading on the
ignorance of the multitude, her ministers have the
audacity to claim credit for the removal of unjust and
brutal measures from the statute-book of the realm,
and for the general spread of humanitarianism ;
whereas it is solely to the development of sympathy
born of knowledge that these are due. The Church
has tardily followed where these have led. For these
reasons, written clear on the page of history, Huxley
called the "ecclesiastical spirit the deadly enemy of
science."

    But for the confusion which men make between

which had come into his possession in consequence of his having
been employed in the General Post Office as a sorter of letters.
. . . The jury found the prisoner -- Guilty -- Death. -- Times,
Nov. 1, 1801. The death-sentences were sometimes commuted.
168 HUXLEY

the letter and the spirit it should be needless to say

that Huxley had no quarrel -- who can have? -- with
religion, defining this as "a consciousness of the

limitations of man and a sense of an open secret

which is impenetrable," 1 and as " the reverence and

love for an ethical ideal, and the desire to realise that

ideal in life which every man ought to feel." a The
ideal will be low or high according to the standard

reached by a community, but, whatever that standard

may be, it represents the attitude towards unseen or

envisaged powers which affect men deeply and con

stantly. No religion, however repellent it may be to

refined natures, has taken root which did not adjust
itself to, and answer, some need of the human heart.

And the measure of our knowledge of the various

faiths of mankind will be the measure of our sym

pathy. What quarrel the evolutionist may have is

with the letter of theology, " which killeth," not with

the spirit of religion, which "giveth                             life."  As

Huxley says : --

The antagonism between science and religion,
        which we
about     factitious  --heafarbrsicoatmedu,ch,onapptheears    to  me to        be
purely                                                      one   hand,        by

short-sighted religious people who confound a certain
branch of science, theology, with religion ; and, on

the other, by equally short-sighted scientific people
who forget that science takes for its province only

1 Coll. Essays, i. p. 33.                                   8 lb., v. p. 250.
         THE CONTROVERSIALIST                            169

that which is susceptible of clear intellectual com
prehension. . . . The antagonism of science is
to the heathen survivals and the bad philosophy under

Iwhich religion herself is often well-nigh crushed.

And trust that this antagonism will never cease ; but
that, to the end of time, true science will continue to
fulfil one of her most beneficent functions, that of
relieving men from the burden of false science,
which is imposed upon them in the name of Re

ligion.1

   Superfluous to add, therefore, that Huxley was no
iconoclast ; no man who is imbued with the spirit of
the doctrine of evolution, which links us to the past

as its products and finds a warrant for all that yet has
been, can be that. Regulation, not suppression, of

human nature, was his aim. He was as anxious as

any defender of the faith can be that religion should
" bring                                                  "
         forth the  peaceable  fruits of  righteousness      ;

his care was to afford it free play by the removal of

the accretions which make it unlovely and a reproach

before the world. In an address delivered as far back

as 1871, he said that he could

conceive the existence of an Established Church

which should be a blessing to the community. A

Church in which, week by week, services should be
devoted, not to the iteration of abstract propositions
in theology, but to the setting before men's minds of
an ideal of true, just, and pure living ; a place in
which those who are weary of the burden of daily

                           1 Coll. Essays, iv. pp. 160, 163.
170 HUXLEY

cares should find a moment's rest in the contempla
tion of the higher life which is possible for all, though
attained by so few ; a place in which the man of strife
and of business should have time to think how small,

after all, are the rewards he covets compared with

peace and charity. Depend upon                  such Church
                                    it,

                                      if

                                                         1a
existed, no one would seek to disestablish it.

And he not only looked with no favour upon

criticism that            wholly destructive he demurred,
            a                       '

                      is                            ;

                                                               '
                                                                                  a
" both as matter of principle and one of policy, to

great deal of what appears as free thought litera

ture."

Heterodox ribaldry disgusts me, confess, rather
                                    It I
more than orthodox fanaticism.                  at once so
                                         it
easy so stupid such                          a iscomplete anachronism in
1               ;                                        is
      ;England, and so thoroughly calculated to disgust and
repel the very thoughtful and serious people whomIt                  it
        i.ought to be the great aim to attract. Old Noll knew
what he was about when he said that was of no useis a

to try to fight the gentlemen of England with tapsters

and serving-men.                    quite as hopeless to fight
Christianity with scurrility. We want regiment of

Ironsides.2

The mode of attack thus rightly censured well-

nigh obsolete. The ojd fatuous alternatives, which

presented Jesus as divine being or an impostor, anda

the Bible as an inspired book or forgery, rarely
                                    it

                                          is a
enter into modern methods of controversy. The age

may not be very earnest, but                    not flippant, in

lb., p. 284.                                    »II. 321.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  I7I

these matters. Beliefs are no longer only attacked,

they are explained. Religions are no longer treated
as wholly true or as wholly false, as the inventions of
designing priests or as of supernatural origin ; but as

the product of man's crude speculations concerning
himself and his surroundings, and of his spiritual

needs, no matter in what repulsive form these are sat
isfied. And a survey shows how each one, with its
outcome in creed and ritual, falls into line with the
processes of evolution ; how, like organisms, all
spring from common elements ; how, like these, they
bear within themselves the traces of their stages of
development ; how natural selection acts upon them,
their survival depending on their power of adaptation,
and how, this failing, they perish and become fos
silised in the strata of obsolete creeds.

    Beyond the general remark that religion arises,

" like all other kinds of knowledge, out of the action

and interaction of man's mind with that which is not

in man's mind, and takes the intellectual coverings
of Fetichism or Polytheism ; of Theism or Atheism,
of Superstition or Rationalism," 1 Huxley refrained

from speculations as to the particular primary im

pulses which gave this or that shape to it. All such
speculations -- and history, both past and present, has
seen many of them -- are foredoomed to failure, be-

                                 1 Coll. Essays, i. p. 138.
172 HUXLEY

cause the " Naturall seed of Religion" as Hobbes

calls  it,     is  the product of roots that lie too deep
            1

down for discovery. They are intertwined with

man's psychical development; they are fed from the
same sources whence arise the psychical faculties of

animals and as the student of comparative mythology
       ;

and comparative theology must take counsel with the

anthropologist and folk-lorist, so must all of them

take counsel with the comparative psychologist and

the comparative physiologist.

   In such spirit, then, Huxley advanced to an exam

ination of the " venerable record of ancient life, mis

called book,"      on which clericalism rests its claims
and its creeds.
                   A quarter of century earlier there
       a

                                 2

                                                             a

                                                                                                 3

                                                    It
had been talk about prosecuting Jowett for the heret

ical article in Essays and Reviews wherein he laid

down what seemed the irreverent canon, " Interpret

the Scripture like any other book."                                                                 would be

difficult to say in what other way the Bible could be

interpreted, and, since 1860, the comparative method,

which has yielded valuable results in all departments

of research, has been applied unchallenged                                                          to the
sacred text --
s

                 ::
                                                                i.

                                                                                          >
   From my present point of                                                                voinewthe[s"aidEvHoluuxtlieoyn,  in
the opening pages of his essays
                                                                                                                            of

Leviathan " Of Man," ch. xii. pt.                                                            P. 377 (1861 edition).
Coll. Essays, iv. p. 289.
                 THE CONTROVERSIALIST  »73

Theology,"] theology is regarded as a natural product
of the operations of the human mind, under the con
ditions of its existence, just as any other branch of
science, or the arts of architecture, or music, or paint
ing, are such products. Like them, theology has a
history. Like them also, it is to be met with in

certain simple and rudimentary forms ; and these can
be connected by a multitude of gradations, which
exist, or have existed, among people of various ages

and races, with the most highly developed theologies
of past and present times.
We are all likely to be more familiar with the theo
logical history of the Israelites than with that of any
other nation. We may therefore fitly make it the
first object of our studies ; and it will be convenient
to commence with that period which lies between the
invasion of Canaan and the early days of the mon
                                eleventh and twelfth cen
archy,  and    answers to the      The evidence on which
turies         or thereabouts.
        b. c,
any conclusion as to the nature of Israelitic theology
in                                      is wholly contained in
the  those days    must be     based  agglomeration of docu
       Hebrew    Scriptures
                             -- an

ments which certainly belong to very different ages,
but of the exact dates and authorship of any one of
which (except perhaps a few of the prophetical wri
tings) there is no evidence, either internal or external,
so far as I. can discover, of such a nature as to justify
more than a confession of ignorance, or, at most, an
approximate conclusion. In these we have the strati

fied deposits (often confused', and even with their
natural order inverted) left by the stream of the intel
lectual and moral life of Israel during many centuries.

And, embedded in these strata, there are numerous
remains of forms of thought which once lived, and

which, though often unfortunately mere fragments,
are of priceless value to the anthropologist. Our task

is to rescue these from their relatively unimportant
174 HUXLEY

surroundings, and by careful comparison with existing
forms of theology to make the dead world which they
record live again. In other words, our problem is
palaeontological, and the method pursued must be the
same that is employed in dealing with other fossil
remains. 1

    From these rich deposits of ancient life-forms Hux

ley chose that which occurs in the twenty-eighth chap
ter of the first book of Samuel, and which tells the

story of Saul's visit to the witch of Endor.
   On the eve of a decisive battle between the Israel

ites and the Philistines, Saul, in despair because

Jahveh had " answered him not, neither by dreams,

nor by Urim, nor by prophets," sought counsel (despite

his having  banished wizards           and their    k"ina)  of a woman
            a familiar spirit,"         literally,
" that had                                                  woman mis

tress of Ob" which word means primitively a leather

bottle, such as a wine-skin, and is applied alike to the

necromancer and to the spirit evoked. It may be

compared with the sacred snake-skin bags or the
magic drums which form part of the apparatus of the
Red Indian medicine-men or sorcerers, the use of Ob

being probably suggested " by the likeness of the hol

low sound emitted by a half-empty skin when struck
to the sepulchral tones in which the oracles of the

evoked spirits were uttered by the medium." 2 Dis-

    1 Coll. Essays, iv. pp. 288, 289.                       of Ob see Art.

     8 Coll. Essays,  iv. p. 295.    For various  meanings
                      Encyclopaedia    Biblica.
**  Divination " in
THE CONTROVERSIALIST                                                                       1 75

guising himself, Saul sought the woman, who, at his

request, called up the prophet Samuel from Sheol, the

under-world. The apparition is visible to her, but

Iinvisible to the king (who hadthrown                                          off his disguise),
                                                                                Elohim (god or
to whose inquiry she replies,   " see

gods) coming up out of the earth." A conversation,

through the woman as medium, follows between Saul

and Samuel, who, reproaching the king for disquieting

him, says, " Jahveh will deliver Israel also with thee

into the hands of the Philistines, and to-morrow shalt
thou and thy sons be with me "
a                                                                              in Sheol).
                                           a
                                                                         (/'.
The story throws flood of light upon ancient

Israelitic belief in necromancy and other forms of
magic, and in the abode of the dead. This last had

nothing in common with the elaborate conception of

future state of rewards and punishments which was

incorporated into Hebrew eschatology during the Cap
tivity. The belief in Sheol may be equated with that

of the Greek belief in Hades, both these being sur

vivals of barbaric ideas about the fate of the departed.

"The small and great are there, and the servant
a

                            it
                                                         by

                                                                  a

                                                               it by

                                                                                           is
free from his master." The ancient Israelites thought
that man consists of body and soul, and that after

death the soul continued to exist as ghost in the

under-world, whence could be summoned                                                      the art

of the necromancer, retaining, on its appearance, some

shadowy outline in form and feature which could
I76 HUXLEY

be identified. As for Elohim, a term translated

" god " (in contrast to Jahveh or Jehovah, translated
" Lord "), that word, as was seen above, is applied to

ghosts, and also to various grades of gods. Its use
by the woman is of importance, as showing that the
ghost had become in some degree deified, a process of
apotheosis which marks the beginnings of ancestor-
worship. The existence of this widespread cult

among the Israelites is evidenced by the rude human

images known as Teraphim. The reference to Urim
shows the prevalence of divination. The Urim and
Thummim appear to have been lots which were car
ried by the high priest in the pocket of his "breast
plate," worn on the ephod. Besides these, there are
evidences of other modes of ascertaining the will of

heaven, as by rods,1 pointless arrows,2 and dreams,3
while the important part played by sacrifices, usually
burnt-offerings, in old Israelitic ritual, is too well
known to need more than allusion here.

   The theological system thus outlined offers to the
anthropologist no feature which is devoid of a par
allel in the known theologies of other races of man
kind, even of those who inhabit parts of the world
most remote from Palestine. And the foundation of
the whole, the ghost-theory, is exactly that theological

1 Hosea iv. 12.                                   2 Ezekiel xxi. 23.

3 Genesis xx. 3, xxxi. 24 ; Judges vii. 13, etc.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  1 77

speculation which is the most widely spread of all,
and the most deeply rooted among uncivilised men.1

   There is nothing new in the foregoing to readers
of Kuenen's great work on the Religion of Israel, nor
to those who have compared the archaic elements in
the Bible with the details of belief and ritual among
the lower races given in books of the type of Tylor's
Primitive Culture and Frazer's Golden Bough. But,
apart from the need of restating the obvious, Hux
ley's purpose and skill were shown in his focussing
one or more salient features of the old Israelitic

theology for comparison with active beliefs among
lower races of whom he knew something at first hand,
or concerning whom he had cogent testimony. For
the first of these he drew on his Rattlesnake experi
ences. In December, 1848, that vessel was anchored
off Mount Ernest, an island in Torres Straits. Hux
ley and a shipmate, whom he calls B., went ashore,
and in course of time became intimate with an old
native named Paouda. The old man took to B. be

cause he believed him to be his father-in-law.

    His grounds for that singular conviction were very

remarkable. We had made a long stay at Cape York

hard by : and in accordance with a theory which is
widely spread among the Australians, that white men
are the incarnated spirits of black men, B. was held
to be the ghost of a certain Mount Ernest native, one

                                1 Coll. Essays, iv. p. 317.
178 HUXLEY

Antarki, who had lately died, on the ground of some
real or fancied resemblance to the latter. Now Paouda
had taken to wife a daughter of Antarki's, named

Domani, and as soon as B. informed him that he was
the ghost of Antarki, Paouda at once admitted the re
lationship and acted upon it. For, as all the women
on the island had hidden away in fear of the ship, and

we were anxious to see what they were like, B.

pleaded pathetically with Paouda that it would be very
unkind not to let him see his daughter and grandchil
dren. After a good deal of hesitation and the exac
tion of pledges of deep secrecy, Paouda consented to
take B., and myself as B.'s friend, to see Domani

and the   three   daughters, by   whom    B. was received
quite as  one                              was courteously
                 of the family,  while I
welcomed on his account. This scene made an im
pression upon me which is not yet effaced. It left no
question on my mind of the sincerity of the strange
ghost-theory of these savages, and of the influence
which their belief has on their practical life.1

   For the second, Huxley cites Mariner's Account of
the Natives of the Tonga Islands in the South Pacific
Ocean, published in 1816. When he was quite a
youth William Mariner joined the Port-au-Prince, a
private ship of war commissioned to cruise for prizes
in certain latitudes, and, failing success in that, to
search for whales.2 Her fate was to be boarded,
plundered, and destroyed by the natives of Lafooga,
one of the Tonga islands, where Mariner, to whom
Finow, the chief, had taken a fancy, spent four years

    1 Coll. Essays, iv. p. 317, 318.
   3 Introd. to Mariner, i. p. xxv.
              THE CONTROVERSIALIST                    179

before making his escape. He learned the language

and lived the life of the islanders, familiarising him

self with their beliefs and customs.                  Concerning their

theology, he says : --

The human soul, after its separation from the body,
is termed a botooa (a god or spirit ; hotooa is the same
as the better-known atua), and is believed to exist in
the shape of the body ; to have the same propensities

as during life, but to be corrected by a more enlight
ened understanding, by which it readily distinguishes
good from evil, truth from falsehood, right from

wrong ; having the same attributes as the original
gods, but in a minor degree, and having its dwelling
forever in the happy regions of Bolotoo, holding the
same rank in regard to other souls as during this life :
it has, however, the power of returning to Tonga to
inspire priests, relations, or others, or to appear in

dreams to those it wishes to admonish ; and some

times to the external eye in the form of a ghost or
apparition ; but this power of reappearance at Tonga
                                                      of chiefs than of
particularly  (abekloinndgsofto"  ctlhieentsso"ulsin   the Roman sense,
matabooles

as Huxley explains in a footnote).1

The "atuas " include gods good and evil, home and

foreign, as well as the           souls  of           m" eEnl,ohsoimth"atofthtehye

" are exactly equivalent          " to   the

old Israelites, while the description of the incidents

attending the " inquiry of" an atua, as the paroxysm
and excitation of the priest, correspond " with the

  1 Call. Essays, iv. p. 323 ; and Mariner, ii. p. 99 ff. (edition

1827).
1 80 HUXLEY

manifestations of abnormal mental states among our

selves, and furnish a most instructive commentary
npon the story of the witch of Endor." Bolotoo

answers to Sheol ; among the several hundred gods

recognised by " the Tongan theologians " one was

greater than all, as among the Israelites Jahveh was
"god of gods." And both in Palestine and the
Pacific Ocean the anger of the deities was believed
to be manifest as strongly in the case of neglect of

ritual as for offences against the moral law. The re
sult of these and other comparisons noted in the
" Evolution of Theology " is to show how little is

left to choose between them.

    One may read from the beginning of the book of
Judges to the end of the books of Samuel without dis
covering that the old Israelites had a moral standard
which differs, in any essential respect (except perhaps
in regard to the chastity of unmarried women) from
that of the Tongans. Gideon, Jephthah, Samson,
and David are strong-handed men, some of whom are
not outdone by any Polynesian chieftain in the matter
of murder and treachery. . . . But it is surely
needless to carry the comparison further. Out of the

abundant evidence at command I think that sufficient

has been produced to furnish ample grounds for the
belief that the old Israelites of the time of Samuel en
tertained theological conceptions which were on a
level with those current among the more civilised of
the Polynesian islanders, though their ethical code may
possibly, in some respects, have been more advanced.1

                           1 Coll. Essays, iv. pp. 340, 345.
           THE CONTROVERSIALIST                      l8l

Therefore, to whatever high spiritual altitudes the

Israelites attained, and however distinctive may have

been their genius for religion, -- a genius which shaped

their traditions, whether native or borrowed, in ac

cordance with their belief in their special mission as

instruments and witnesses of Jehovah among man

kind, and which inspired their prophets to utterances

unsurpassed in grandeur of expression and in loftiness
of moral tone, -- the documents of their religion evi

dence that they passed through stages of develop
ment corresponding to those of other races ; stages
of crude and coarse conceptions of the gods, attended

by a bloody ritual and a low morality.

   While Huxley was busy over this subject, there
appeared the article by Mr. Gladstone, to the invigo
rating effects of which reference was made on page
56. In his notice of M. Reville's book Mr. Glad

stone took exception to the statement that while the

Creation   story and other narratives in  the Pentateuch
                                          they are not to
" possess  a value of the highest order,

be regarded as other than a venerable fragment, well
deserving attention, of the great genesis of mankind."

This was reducing them to the level of ordinary

secular history, and hence Mr. Gladstone sought to
prove that, instead of " merely a lofty poem or a

skilfully constructed narrative," we have, in the He
                                          " reve*
brew cosmogony and all that follows       it,

                                                  a
182 HUXLEY

lation of truth from God," and the "great founda
tion-chapter of the entire Scriptures, New as well as
Old." After defending the astounding theory of the
creation of something out of nothing, he contended
that the fourfold order of the appearance of living
things set forth in the Hebrew cosmogony is con

firmed by " natural science." He cited a few anti

quated authorities, the greatest among these being

Cuvier. But, as Huxley pointed out --

   Cuvier has been dead more than half a century ;
and the palaeontology of our day is related to that of
his very much as the geography of the sixteenth
century is related to that of the fourteenth. Since
1832, when Cuvier died, not only a new world, but
new worlds of ancient life, have been discovered, and

those who have most faithfully carried on the work
of the chief founder of palaeontology have done most
Ifto invalidate the essentially negative grounds of his
speculative adherence to tradition.   Mr. Glad

stone's latest information  on these  tmo atthteer"s  is derived
from the famous discourse   prefixed                  Ossemens
Fossiles" I can understand the position he has taken
up ; if he has ever opened a respectable modern
manual of palaeontology or geology, I cannot. For
the facts which demolish his whole argument are of

the commonest notoriety.1

Concerning the controversy, " It was not," Sir
Mountstuart Grant-DufF said, " so much a battle as a

massacre." Nevertheless, after annihilation, as it

Coll. Essays, iv. p. 144.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  1 83

seemed to the onlooker, by Huxley's intellectual

dynamite, Mr. Gladstone reappeared, as if never dis

turbed therefrom, on the Impregnable Rock of Holy
Scripture, as he called it. In that book he reaffirmed,
in ingenious variation of phrase, all that Huxley had
disproved concerning the succession of life-forms,

and, passing from the organic to the inorganic, con

tended that " the nebular theory supplies a new and
remarkable establishment of accord between natural

science on the one hand (so far as its reasoning has

proceeded) and the Book of Genesis on the other." 1
Mr. Gladstone had no sympathy with the invertebrate
theologians who would transfer Christianity from a

historical to a psychological base. " We are," he
says, " professors of a religion which rests not so

much on abstract principles as on matters of fact,

inseparable from the revelation itself." Such physical

facts are the Creation, the Incarnation, the Resur

rection.2 As to the validity of these, no doubt had
ever possessed him. He writes as a man of apparently

open mind, but throughout life every avenue had been
shut against the admission of anything telling against

preconceptions which were theological to the core.

   1 Impregnable Rock of Holy Scripture, chap, vi., " On Recent
Corroborations of Scripture from the Regions of History and Nat

ural Science."

   s Impregnable Rock of Holy Scripture, chap, ii., " The Creation

Story."
1 84 HUXLEY

Mr. George Russell wrote a pamphlet on " Mr.
Gladstone's Religious Development." It should
have been issued in blank, for Mr. Gladstone never

had any such development. He was in the nineties
what he was in the thirties, save that with advancing
years he attached greater importance to ritual observ
ances. One evidence of this is his resignation of
membership of the Folklore Society in 1896, when
the Presidential Address of that year, dealing with
the significance of that portion of Dr. Frazer's
Golden Bough which treats of the large body of bar
baric rites connected with "eating the god," pointed
out the relation of these to the sacrament. His

whilom colleague and brother-Churchman, Lord Sel-
borne, said of him that "he was too readily influenced
by opinions which fell in with his own wishes or
feelings, and by the men who held them, and was im
patient of the dry light of facts when facts told the
other way. He could see into millstones farther than
other men, and, on the other hand, he had a wonder
ful power of not seeing what he did not like." 1

   The facts of natural science were accepted by him

only in so far as they were shown to be in accord
with the statements of Scripture ; and, as they could
not be ignored, the instruments of ambiguity and
evasiveness, which perform their disingenuous work in

              1 Memorials : Personal and Political, 1865-1895.
                      THE CONTROVERSIALIST

political controversy, were employed to bring these

facts into seeming harmony with revelation. Hence

the serious limitations to which Mr. John Morley
bore witness when unveiling a statue to Mr. Glad

stone at Manchester in October last year.

   Something [he says] was left out in the wide circle
of his interests ; natural science in all its speculations
                                     of scientific
and extensions and     increase                           truth, ex
                       methods      --all that no        doubt con
tension of scientific

stitute the central activities, the intellectual activities

of   Elinfeg--lantdo  and Europe during the last    forty years  of
                      all that he was not entirely
his                                                 open.1
   I remember once going with him one Sunday after
                      visit to Mr.  Darwin.          It
                                     felt that           was in the
                      I came away                   no   impression
Inoon to

seventies.
     pay a

        As

had reached him that that   intellectual,       modest,  single-
                           that searcher                 secrets
minded lover of truth --                         of the
of nature -- was one who from his Kentish hilltop
was shaking the world. But the omission of scien
tific interest was made up for. The thought with

which he rose in the morning and went to rest at
night was of the universe as a sublime moral theatre,

on which the Omnipotent Dramaturgist used king
doms and rulers, laws and policies, to exhibit a sover

eign purpose for good, to light up what I may call the
prose of politics with a ray from the Diviner Mind,
and exalted his ephemeral discourses in a sort of visible
relation to the counsels of all time.

   While Mr. Gladstone, as well-nigh the last of the
old school of reconcilers, was renewing the hopeless

   1 " Of natural science he was strangely ignorant." -- Mr. Bryce,
" On some Traits of Mr. Gladstone," Fortnightly Review, January,

1902, p. 13.
186 HUXLEY

attempt to harmonise, by verbal legerdemain, Genesis
and Geology, contending, for example, that the six

days meant " six chapters in the history of the crea

tion," liberal theologians were surrendering belief in

the historical character of the so-called " Mosaic "

writings.

  " I cannot deny," said Canon Bonney, speaking at

the Church Congress held in 1895 at Norwich, "that
the increase of scientific knowledge has deprived parts
of the earlier books of the Bible of the historical
value which was generally attributed to them by our
forefathers. The story of the creation in Genesis,
unless we play fast and -loose either with words or
with science, cannot be brought into harmony with
what we have learned from geology. Its ethnological
statements are imperfect, if not sometimes inaccurate.
The stories of the flood and of the Tower of Babel
are incredible in their present form. Some historical
elements may underlie many of the traditions in the
first eleven chapters of that book, but this we cannot
hope to recover."

   In his essay on " Hebrew Authority " in Authority

and Archaology, Dr. Driver, Regius Professor of He
brew in the University of Oxford, and sitting, there
fore, in the chair of Pusey, says that --

the general result of the archaeological and anthro
pological researches of the past half-century has been
to take the Hebrews out of the isolated position
which, as a nation, they seemed previously to hold,
and to demonstrate their affinities with, and often their
THE CONTROVERSIALIST                        l87

dependence upon, the civilisations by which they
were surrounded. . . . The civilisation which,
in spite of the long residence of the Israelites in

Egypt, left its mark, however, most distinctly upon

the culture and literature of the Hebrews was that of
Babylonia. It was in the East that the Hebrew tra
ditions placed both the cradle of humanity and the
more immediate home of their own ancestors ; and it

was Babylonia which, as we now know, exerted dur
ing many centuries an influence, once unsuspected,
over Palestine itself. . . . Thus the beliefs (of
the Hebrews) about   the origin and         history of the
world, their social  usages, their   early  of civil and
                                     code

criminal law, their religious institutions, can no longer
be viewed, as was once possible, as differing in kind
from those of other nations, and determined in every

feature by a direct revelation from Heaven ; all, it is

now known, have substantial analogies among other
peoples, the distinctive character which they exhibit
among the Hebrews consisting in the spirit with
which they are infused, and the higher principles of

which they are made the exponent. Their literature,
moreover, it is now apparent, was not exempt from
the conditions to which the literature of other nations

was subject ; it embraces, for instance, narratives re
lating to what we should term the prehistoric age,
similar in character and scope to those occurring in
the literature of other countries. There are many
representations and statements in the Old Testament

which only appear in their proper perspective when

viewed in the light thrown upon them by archaeology.
And in some cases it is not possible to resist the con

clusion that they must be interpreted in a different
sense from that in which past generations have com

monly understood them.1

                     1 Pp. 7. 8-
1 88 HUXLEY

   The Creation-story, with which the book of Gene

sis opens, can no longer be regarded " as possessing

any value as a scientific exposition of the past history
of the earth." There is now no question whatever

that it was derived from the Babylonian epic, the gro

tesque polytheism of which in the Hebrew variant,
                  " severe and dignified monotheism."by
superseded      by          is,
                    is,
The Sabbath              in all probability, an institution ultiit it
                       a                by

mately of Babylonian origin, not then as rest-daya
                                                         ;a
for man, but " day when the gods rested from their
                  a                                                                      ;

anger." Among the Hebrews was made subserv

"ient to human needs and religious purposes but its

sanctity    is  explained unhistorically, and ante-dated."

Instead of the Sabbath, closing the week, being
sacred, because God rested upon after His six days'
work of Creation, the work of Creation was distrib

uted among six days, followed                 day of rest

because the week, ended   the Sabbath, already ex

isted as an institution, and the writer wished to adjust
                         wdoertkermoinfedCrethaetio"ndaytos "ito. f                                             In other
artificially the                                                                                                Creation,
                         of Creation the week.1
words,    t"hedawyese"k
not the

The story of Paradise and the Fall, on the validity

of which        fundamental part of Christian dogma rests,
                also points of contact with Babylonia,
" exhibits
by
                a

                   '

                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                 8.
though not so definite or complete as those presented

   the first Creation-story." " Eden itself," remarks

                Authority and Archeology, p.
               THE CONTROVERSIALIST

Professor Sayce, " is the Babylonian Eden or Chal

dean ' plain its garden with the Tree of Knowledge

is celebrated in an old Babylonian poem (and depicted
on Assyrian monuments), and two of the rivers that
water it are the Tigris and . Euphrates." 1 The

cherubim are " clearly no native Hebrew conception,"

and are probably derived either from the Hittite griffin

or the Babylonian divine winged bulls.2

   In the story of the Flood, " we have a direct and

interesting parallel from Babylonia," the original of
which was discovered in 1872. Canon Driver sup
plies an admirable resume of the epic, whose subject is
the exploits of the hero Gilgamesh, told in twelve
cantos. The Deluge-story forms the eleventh of

these cantos.

   There are of course differences; the Biblical ac
count of the Deluge was not, any more than the
waBeiBblaiccbaaynlloanbciuactonusnsptoeucorucfleaCt;erebabuyttiowbnyh, asttor--amnesthcrecihbaeBndanbeydllioroenrciatolnythsefrtroo--mry
found its way into Israel ; details were forgotten or
modified : it assumed, of course, a Hebrew complex
ion, being adapted to the spirit of Hebrew monothe
ism, and made a vehicle for the higher teaching of the
Hebrew religion ; but the main outline remained the
same, and the substantial identity of the two narra

tives is unquestionable.3

1 The Temple Bible, Introd. p. xiv.           Coll.  Essays,  iv. pp.
1 Encyclopedia Biblica, Art. " Cherubim."
3 Authority and Archceology, p. 27 ; and see

239-286.
190 HUXLEY

   As for the historical existence of the " Father of
the Faithful " and other ancestors of Israel, Canon

Driver animadverts as follows on the assumptions of
pseudo-concessionists of the type of Professor Sayce :

   Mr. Tomkins and Professor Sayce have produced
works on The Age of Abraham and Patriarchal Pales
tine, full of interesting particulars, collected from the

monuments, respecting the condition, political, social,
and religious, of Babylonia, Palestine, and Egypt, in
the centuries before the age of Moses ; but neither of

these volumes contains the smallest evidence that

either Abraham or the other patriarchs ever actually
            Patriarchal Palestine, in
existed.    Critics, it is said, have             tfaaucgth, top"etnhsatwitthherea
fallacy.

were no Patriarchs and no Patriarchal age, but, the
ecrxiitsictesdn,"otawnidths"tiatndhiansg,bteheen
                                                  Patriarchal  age has  actually
                                                   shown by    modern   discov

ery to be a fact." Modern discovery has shown no
such thing. It has shown, indeed, that Palestine had

inhabitants before the Mosaic age, that Babylonians,
Egyptians, and Canaanites, for instance, visited or
                                                  ;

                                                       is
                                                                        it,
made  it    their home but that the Hebrew patriarchs
          it       is
lived in there no tittle of monumental evidenceby ;

iswhatever. They may have done so but our knowl
edge of the fact depends at present entirely upon what

    said in the Book of Genesis. Not one of the

emvaidneyncfaecttshaatddthuecePdatriarPcrhosfesvsiosritedSaPyacelestiniend--epoerndeevnent

that they existed at all.1

   Canon Driver will find materials for stronger
criticism of Professor Sayce in the Introduction con

tributed  by     the latter to the Temple Bible, wherein not

                1  Authority and Archeology, p. 149.
                       THE CONTROVERSIALIST

only Abraham, but Adam and Noah, are said "to
form successive links in the chain of Divine educa

tion, which with each fresh starting-point becomes

less general and more personal."1 In the third of
his Yale Lectures on Modern Criticism and the
Preaching of the Old Testament, Professor G. A.
Smith is in agreement with Canon Driver : --

While archaeology has richly illustrated the main out
lines of the Book of Genesis from Abraham to
Joseph, it has not one whit of proof to offer for the
personal existence or characters of the Patriarchs
themselves. This is the whole change archaeology
has wrought ; it has given us a background and an
atmosphere for the stories of Genesis ; it is unable to
recall or to certify their heroes.

   The legendary character of the patriarchal age,
which may be compared with the heroic age in
Greece, was demonstrated by Kuenen, Knappert, and

other Continental scholars thirty years ago. " Actual

ancestors are never distinctly traceable," says Dill-

mann, a sound statement pushed to extremes by
Goldziher, who, following the late Professor Max

Miller's philological methods, resolved Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob into sun and sky myths, Jacob's

twelve sons being the moon and eleven stars.
Steinthal, with more warrant, converted Samson, the

" shining one," into a solar hero whose labours cor-

                                           1P. 15.
192 HUXLEY

respond to those of Hercules. But such speculations
are of slight importance, since the major fact of the
unhistorical foundation of the early Hebrew narra
tives is admitted. Canon Driver represents the views
accepted by every modern scholar having claim to
authority. They are adopted by the contributors to
the Encyclopedia Biblica ; 1 a work in which Huxley
would have found the justification of all for which he
contended: they are in course of adoption in text
books, and will, at no long interval, be quietly ad

mitted into " Bible helps " and such like manuals

issued by the orthodox publishing societies. In the
preface to the most recent History of the Hebrews, its

author, the Rev. R. L. Ottley, says : " It is well to

recognise the fact that the patriarchal period is de
scribed to us in narratives which were compiled in
their present form about a thousand years later than

the events they describe, and of which, therefore, as
Professor G. A. Smith truly observes, ' it is simply
impossible for us at this time of day to establish the

              "

accuracy.'

   When the source of the cosmogonic and other
legends was discovered, it was assumed that their
presence in the Old Testament was due to the con-

    1 Edited by Canon Cheyne, Oriel Professor of the Interpretation

of Holy Scripture in the University of Oxford, and J. Sutherland
Black, LL. D.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  193

tact of the Jews with Babylonian ideas during the

Exile. But this did not account for the very great

modifications which the legends had undergone before
their adoption into the final redaction of the

Pentateuch ; modifications involving long processes
of elimination of polytheistic elements. Happily,

the discovery of a number of cuneiform tablets at
Tel-el-Amarna in Egypt in 1887 throws light upon
the difficulty. They show that, at about 1400 B.C.,

Palestine and the neighbouring countries formed an
Egyptian province under the rule of Egyptian
governors, stationed in the principal towns, and
(what is more remarkable) communicating with their
superiors in the Babylonian language, thus affording
conclusive evidence that for long previously Canaan
had been under Babylonian influence. 1

   It is therefore in the highest degree probable that

the Babylonian legends had been imported into

Canaan before the fifteenth century B.C., and that on

the settlement of the Israelites in that country, they
incorporated these legends into their stock of tradi
tions. Down to the eighth century B.C., the materials
of Israelitic history existed only in fragmentary and
unsettled form, made up of songs celebrating the
deeds and prowess of heroes ; of scraps of law ; and

of legendary and actual history gathered from different

sources and spread over many centuries. To these

                         1 Authority and Archeology, p. 72.
194 HUXLEY

inchoate materials priestly and prophetic hands gave
shape, the one laying stress on the ceremonial law,
the other laying stress on the moral law, but both

emphasising the supremacy of Jahveh, who, after

slow emergence from the nature-stage as a mountain-
god, manifest in fire and burning-bush, had become
invested with an awful holiness. Every song and

saga was adapted to " the law, the prophets, and the

writings," and charged with the conviction of the
mission of Israel as the chosen nation ; and hence its

religion must be studied in the light of its history,
and its history in the light of its religion. Despite
these admissions, of which sufficing examples have
been given, we find Canon Driver and his brother
theologians still justifying Huxley's gravamen in de

voting themselves

to the end of keeping the name of " Inspiration " to

suggest the divine source, and consequent infallibility,

of more or less of the Biblical literature, while care

"sfuoplrltlyenoeafmry"ptiiynnissnppgiirraatthtiieoonnte"wrmiwthe  of any definite sense. For

                                                                    are asked to substitute a

                                                                   limited liability," the limit
being susceptible of indefinite fluctuation in corres
pondence with the demands of scientific criticism.
When this advances that at once retreats.
This Parthian policy is carried out with some
dexterity ; but, like other such manoeuvres in the face

of a strong foe, it seems likely to end in disaster. It

is easy to say, and sounds plausible, that the Bible was

not meant to teach anything but ethics and religion,
                THE CONTROVERSIALIST                        195

and that its utterances on other matters are mere

obiter dicta : it is also a specious suggestion that in

spiration, filtering through human brains, must
undergo a kind of fallibility contamination ; and that
this human impurity
                      is  responsible for any errors,       the
existence of which   has   to be admitted, however          un

willingly.
But how does the apologist know what the Biblical
writers intended
tend to teach ?   to teach, and  what         they did not  in
                                 their        authority is  re
                  And even if
stricted to matters of faith and morals, who is pre
pared to deny that the story of the fabrication of Eve,
that of the lapse of innocence effected by a talking
snake, that of the Deluge and demonological legends,
have exercised, and still exercise, a profound influence
on Christian theology and Christian ethics ? 1

Here Huxley again reaches the core of the matter.

There was a consistency in the old theory of verbal

inspiration ; there is none in the theory of a divine

and human element in the Scriptures, since there is

no possible test by which the one can be distinguished

from the other. And the decision as to what and       is,

as to what not, revelation, would hardly have been
by
            is
left the Holy Spirit to the creed-makers and the

critics. When Canon Driver speaks of the " spirit

of the legend of the Creation being changed in the

light of revelation," and of the Israelite writer as

"gifted     by   the Holy Spirit"; when Professor      Sayce
                the language of Genesis rises to the  height
says that   "

                  Coll. Essays, iv. p. viii.
I96 HUXLEY

of the revelation it contains," and when Mr. Ottley
talks of the " inspiration which we justly attribute to
the Old Testament writers," they are each playing

with names to which there are no correspondent reali

ties. As Professor Goldwin Smith puts it : --

If it was from the Holy Spirit that these narratives

emanated, how can the Holy Spirit have failed to let
mankind know that in reality they were allegories ?
How could it allow them to be received as literal
truths, to mislead the world for ages, to bar the ad
vance of science, and, when science at last prevailed,

to discredit revelation by the exposure ? Besides, to

maintain the symbolical truths of Genesis is almost
as hard as to maintain its literal truth.1

   Obviously, the effort to retain the saving clause of
a revelation in a miscellaneous collection of writings
of uncertain date and authorship, and of disputed
meaning, is due to the fact that the Christian doctrine
of the Atonement is bound up with the story of the
Fall. The legend of Eden is the keystone of the
arch which supports the whole Christian scheme of
redemption, and the evidence of palaeontology has dis

proved the Pauline teaching that " death came into

the world by sin."
    But, in the meantime, while the learned among

them still hesitate to follow facts to their only possi-

               1 Guesses at the Riddle of Existence, p. 55.
              THE CONTROVERSIALIST                                 197

ble conclusion, the great mass of the unlearned clergy
will have warrant for the indiscriminate reading of the
legends of a talking ass ; an arrested sun ; of the
stories of Simeon and Levi's treachery and Jehu's
butcheries ; of the high ethical teaching of the

Prophets ; and of the beatitudes on the meek, the

peacemakers, and the pure in heart ; as equally in

tegral parts of writings inspired " by the Holy Spirit."

Every Sunday in thousands of churches their congre

gations are still told that " God Himself spake all
these words," saying, " In six days the Lord made

heaven and earth, the sea and all that in thema1                   and

rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed theby is

                                                        ;

                                                             is,
Sabbath day, and hallowed it." Thus, as Emerson
says, " vast carcass of tradition
21                                  exhibited every

           ayear with as much solemnity as new revelation."

Criticism was not to be arrested    the blank page

which separates Malachi from Matthew but oppro

brium greeted the critic.2

    The clergy " are either propagating what they may easilyis

know, and therefore are bound to know, to be falsities or, they ;
use the words in some non-natural sense, they fall below the moral
standard of the much-abused Jesuit." -- Coll. Essays, ii. p. 146.if

     Bishop (then Canon) Gore admits that the same criticism must
be applied to the New Testament as applied to the Old, but he
qualifies this with the cryptic remark that ·' because the historical
and literary conditions in the two cases are in general very differ
ent, the result also will be in general very different."-- Pilot, loth

Aug., 1901.
198 HUXLEY

   Destroy the foundation of most forms of dogmatic
Christianity contained in the second chapter of Gen

esis, if you will ; the new ecclesiasticism undertakes
                        ;
to underpin the structure, and make                                   at any rate to
                           is

                                                         ;

                                               it,

                                                                            a

                                                                    by
the eye, as firm as ever but let him be anathema who
                                                                 "of
applies   exactly the   ofsam"eMactatnhoenws                          ocrritoicfism"    to the
opening     chapters
                                                                                      Luke."

School children may be told that the world was                                        no

means made in six days, and that implicit belief in

the story of Noah's Ark permissible only, as mat
ter of business, to their toymakers but they are to
hold for the certaintest of truths, to be doubted only
at peril of their salvation, that their Galilean fellow-

child Jesus, nineteen centuries ago, had no human

father.1

In treating the Old Testament "like any other

book," Huxley chose as test case the interview of
a
                                                 a

                                                          a
                                                              a
Saul with the ghost of Samuel through the medium

of witch. In treating the New Testament " like

any other book," he chose as test case the story of

Jesus  exorcising demons from                                   man and permitting
them   to enter into two thousand
                                                               swine, " to the great

loss and damage of the innocent Gadarene owners."

In both cases, therefore, the question of the existence

of spirits           raised. His reason for the selection was
1

   89
          1
                 is
that in the course of discussions in the years 1889--

          "it had been maintained  is                                 the defenders of
                                       by
ecclesiastical Christianity that the demonology of the
books of the New Testament an essential and in-

                     1  Coll. Essays, v. p. xi.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST                          1 99

tegral part of the revelation of the nature of the
spiritual world promulgated by Jesus of Nazareth."

So far he was in agreement with them.
    Belief in spirits, good and bad, guardian angels and

maliceful demons, beings filling an intermediate place
as lower than gods and greater than men, is a survival
of savage ideas as to the presence of innumerable
spirits everywhere, and an impulse in certain direc
tions was given to this belief among the Jews during
the Exile. The ancient Babylonian idea that disease
is due to demons (a belief common to barbaric peo
ples, among whom disease and death are not regarded

as natural events), whose expulsion was the business
of the exorcist, struck root in Judaism, and hence we
find that the references to evil spirits are more fre

quent in the New Testament than in the Old. " Be

lief in possession is distinctive of late Jewish times," 1
as is that in angels, who become the appointed " mes
sengers " between Jahveh and men ; on whose duties

as servants before the heavenly throne the prophets,
notably Ezekiel and Zechariah, enlarge ; and whose

presence as attendants on the " Son of Man " at the

Judgment-Day, is dwelt upon by Jesus.

It is plain as language can make
1                                             that the writers

                                   :

                                         it,
of the Gospels believed in the existence of Satan and
the subordinate ministers of evil as strongly as they

Encyclopedia Biblica Art. " Demons."
200 HUXLEY

believed in that of God and the angels ; and that they

had an unhesitating faith in possession and in exor

cism. No reader of the first three Gospels can hesi
tate to admit that, in the opinion of those persons
among whom the traditions out of which they are
compiled arose, Jesus held, and constantly acted upon,
the same theory of the spiritual world. Nowhere do
we find the slightest hint that he doubted the theory,
or questioned the efficacy of the curative operations

based upon it.1

   The writer of the article " Demons " in the Ency
clopedia Biblica says : " there is no sign on the part

of Jesus, any more than on the part of the evangelists,
of mere accommodation to the current belief. It is
true that ' Satan ' is used metaphorically in the rebuke
of Peter (Matt. xvi. 23) and that ' unclean spirit ' is
figurative in Matt. xii. 43. Acceptance of the cur
rent belief is clearly at the basis of the argument of
Jesus with the Pharisees (Luke xi. 16-26); . . .
and that He believed in the power of others besides
Himself and His disciples to expel demons, in some
sense at any rate, seems clear in the presence of such
passages as Matt. xii. 27 and Luke xi. 19, where He
attributes the power to the disciples of the Pharisees.
He recognises also the fact that similar success was
attained by some who used His name without actually
following Him (Mark ix. 38) or without being more

                                      1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 193.
               THE CONTROVERSIALIST              20 1

than professed disciples." 1 And the author of Ex-

ploratio Evangelica says that " it is probable Jesus ac

cepted the hypothesis of demoniac possession as easily

as He accepted the hypothesis that the sun moves
round the earth."2 In the declaration that He cast

out devils (Luke xiii. 32), and His bestowal of the like
power upon His disciples (Luke ix. 1) ; in the story
of the temptation ; in the warning that the wicked

would depart into everlasting fire, prepared for the

devil and his angels (" the doctrine of eternal damna

tion   is   a   Judaistic survival   of grossly  immoral char
acter          no ingenuity can                  fact that Jesus
       "   ')                       distort the

shared the common demonological belief of His time

and people.

   And the issue which Huxley raised is as clear as it

is serious : --

When such a story as that about the Gadarene
swine is placed before us, the importance of the de

Ifcision, whether it is to be accepted or rejected, cannot
be overestimated.  the demonological part of it is

to be accepted, the authority of Jesus is unmistakably
            to the demonological               current in Judea
pledged                               system   devils, who pos
in the     first century. The       belief in

sess men and can be transferred from men to pigs,

1 See quotation to the same effect, from Dr. Alexander's Bibl.

Cyclopedia, given in Coll. Essays, v. p. 217.

s P. 225-                                      By R. H. Charles,

8 A Critical History of a Future Life.
D.D.,p. 311.
202 HUXLEY

Ifbecomes as much a part of Christian dogma as any
article of the creeds.  it is to be rejected, there are

two alternative conclusions. Supposing the Gospels

to be historically accurate, it follows that Jesus shared

in the errors respecting the nature of the spiritual
world prevalent in the age in which He lived, and

among the people of His nation. If, on the other

hand, the Gospel traditions give us only a popular

version of the sayings and doings of Jesus, falsely col
oured, and distorted by the superstitious imaginings of
the minds through which it had passed, what guaran
tee have we that a similar unconscious falsification, in
accordance with preconceived ideas, may not have
taken place in respect of other reported sayings and
doings ? What is to prevent a conscientious inquirer
from finding himself at last in a purely agnostic posi
tion with respect to the teachings of Jesus, and con
sequently with respect to the fundamentals of Chris
tianity ? 1

   The old argument that miracles are impossible, be
cause contrary to the order of nature, is no longer

advanced, since its force is limited to what we infer

from our experience of that order. The fact that a

certain thing has not happened within our knowledge
is no proof that it never happened in the past, or that
it can never happen in the future. Nothing, as

Huxley points out, is to be declared " impossible,"

except contradictions in terms, as a round square, a

present past, or the intersection of two parallel lines.
None of us have seen a centaur or a griffin, but the

             1 Coll. Essays, v. pp. 193, I94 ; and see p. 218.
                  THE CONTROVERSIALIST                  2O3

existence of such monsters is conceivable; so with the

miracles reported in the Old and New Testaments or in

the Acta Sanctorum ; they are conceivable by the im

agination, however repellent to the reason. And the

argument which alone has force against miracles         is of

that as their alleged occurrence an event lying outside        a is,
                                    is
                                          by
our experience of an unbroken uniformity of nature,

belief in them must be determined             the validity of the

evidence. And the more improbable the character of

the alleged miracle, the more cogent must be the evi

dence in its support. Dealing with the miracles

narrated in the Gospels, would seem only reason
                  by
able, before accepting the truth of the story, to expectit
that in the case of documents for which inspiration

   claimed there should be no discrepancies in the
is
            ;
record that the Holy Spirit would have protected the

revelation from error and obscurity. Under this test
the evidence breaks down. An examination of

work published    the Religious Tract Society, under

the unconsciously ironical title, Harmony               the

Gospels, brings out the discord between them. Upon

a  matter so momentous in its assumed bearings on

human destiny as the Virgin Birth (to which the ear;
liest of the Synoptics makes no reference), there no
agreement while the accounts of the character of

the last supper, of the last hours of Jesus on the
cross, and of the events following His alleged resur
204 HUXLEY

rection, vary irreconcilably. A recent defender of
the faith remarks that " the tale of the physical resur
rection of Jesus belongs evidently to the same circle
of thought as that of the miraculous birth. It shows a
love of the marvellous ; is deeply tinged with material

ism ; and rests on a historical substruction which falls

to pieces on a careful examination." 1 So with the

Gadarene story ; so with the story of the feeding of

several thousand with a few loaves, with the result that

" the quantity of the fragments of the meal left over
amounted to much more than the original store " :

the reports differ. The explanation, hitherto arrested

and darkened by theories of inspiration, is obvious.
With the abandonment of those theories, every diffi
culty vanishes. The Gospels are the handiwork of
men who lived in an age when any conception of the
uniformity of nature was foreign to the mind ; men
in whom the critical faculty of weighing of evidence

was wholly lacking, and who set down, each in his
own fashion, stories of events said to have happened

many years before --stories which had therefore filtered

through many, channels ; fallible hearers repeating
them to fallible writers, whose honesty and sincerity

are not doubted, but whose competency is questioned.

   As Dr.  Sutherland  Black  sGaoysspienlshi"s  admirably com
           article on                             in Chambers's
pendious               the "

           1 Exploratio Evangelica, p. 255.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  205

Encyclopadia, " no one of them is a primary document
in the sense of having been written in its present

form from direct personal knowledge ; and it is ob

vious that each succeeding evangelist, in availing him

self of the labours of his predecessors, did so with a

feeling of perfect freedom, not claiming for himself,

nor according to his fellows, nor expecting for either
from the church, any title to authority as infallible."
That authority was claimed for them by the framers
of the Canon, fallible men determining what is in

fallible ; men whose critical capacity and materials for

decision are hardly warrant for the burden which they

have for centuries, unchallenged, laid upon more com

petent judges. " The times of the first Church were

times of excitement ; when the appeal was not to the

questioning, thinking understanding, but to unheed
ing, all-venturing emotion, to that lower class ' from
whom faiths ascend ' ; not to the cultivated class by

whom they are criticised." 1 Huxley's tribute to the

service rendered to human kind by the Bible (see ante,
p. 38) adds emphasis to his protest against the evil of
which the doctrine of its infallibility has been fruitful.

   The pretension to infallibility, by whomsoever
made, has done endless mischief; with impartial ma
lignity it has proved a curse alike to those who have
made it and those who have accepted it : and its most

           1 Literary Studies. By Walter Bagehot, ii. p. 46.
206 HUXLEY

baneful shape is book infallibility. For sacerdotal
corporations and schools of philosophy are able, under
due compulsion of opinion, to retreat from positions
that have, become untenable; while the dead hand of

a book sets and stiffens, amidst texts and formulae,

until it becomes a mere petrifaction, fit only for the
function of stumbling-block which it so admirably

performs. Wherever bibliolatry has prevailed, bigotry

and cruelty have accompanied it. It lies at the root
of the deep-seated, sometimes disguised, but newer
absent, antagonism of all the varieties of ecclesiasti-
cism to the freedom of thought and to the spirit of
scientific investigation. For those who look upon
ignorance as one of the chief sources of evil, and hold

veracity, not merely in act, but in thought, to be the
one condition of true progress, whether moral or in

tellectual, it is clear that  the  Biblical idol must go the
                                   infallibility in all shapes,
way of all other idols.       Of
lay or clerical, it is needful to iterate with more than

Catonic pertinacity, Delenda est.1

   In the controversy over the Gadarene story, the
authenticity of which was defended by Dr. Wace and
Mr. Gladstone, Huxley raised the question whether
the ever-accumulating experience of mankind concern
ing the non-intrusion of the supernatural in the se
quence of phenomena was to be regarded as of no
account as against the story of demon-possessed pigs.
For history shows that all advance in knowledge has
caused recession of belief in miracle, and that the

farther back inquiry is pushed the more active is that
belief. And the argument that miracles ceased at a

                                1 CoU. Essays, iv. p. 10.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST

certain stage, the date of which is a hotly debated
question among ecclesiastics, has no force if they were

wrought as signs and wonders to remove unbelief,

since if that was their purpose the need of them is

greater than ever. As was his wont, Huxley went

straight to the point.

  I am not more certain about anything than I am

that the evidence tendered in favour of the demon-

ology of which the Gadarene story is a typical ex

amEpvleeriysthuitntegrlythavtaluIelkensso.1w of physiological and patho

logical science leads me to entertain a very strong

conviction that the phenomena ascribed to possession

are as purely natural as those which constitute small

pox ; everything that I know of anthropology leads

me to think that the belief in demons and demoniacal

possession is a mere survival of a once universal

superstition, and that its persistence at the present

time is pretty much in the inverse ratio of the general
instruction, intelligence, and sound judgment of the
Ipopkunloawtionofamlaownganwdhojumstiict eprecvoanivlsin. cesEvemreythtihnagt
                                                                               that
                                                                                the
wanton destruction of other people's property is a
misdemeanour of evil example. Again, the study of
history, and especially of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and
seventeenth centuries, leaves no shadow of doubt on my
mind that the belief in the reality of possession and
of witchcraft, justly based, alike by Catholics and

Protestants, upon this and innumerable other passages

in both the Old and New Testaments, gave rise,
through the special influence of Christian ecclesiastics,

to the most horrible persecutions and judicial murders
of thousands upon thousands of innocent men, women,

1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 206.
208 HUXLEY

and children. And when I reflect that the record of

a plain and simple declaration upon such an occasion

as this, that the belief in witchcraft and possession is
Iwicked nonsense, would have rendered the long agony
of medieval humanity impossible,    am prompted to

reject, as dishonouring, the supposition that such
declaration was withheld out of condescension to

popular error.1

   The Gospels, the Acts, the Epistles, and the Apoc
alypse assert the existence of the devil, of his
demons and of hell, as plainly as they do that of God
and His angels and heaven. It is plain that the Mes
sianic and the Satanic conceptions of the writers of
Ifthese books are the obverse and the reverse of the
same intellectual coinage.  we turn from Scripture
to the traditions of the Fathers and the confessions
of the Churches, it will appear that, in this one par
ticular, at any rate, time has brought about no im

portant deviation from primitive belief. From Justin
onwards it may often be a fair question whether God,
or the devil, occupies a larger share of the attention
of the Fathers. It is the devil who instigates the

Roman authorities to persecute; the gods and god
desses of paganism are devils, and idolatry itself is an

invention of Satan ; if a saint falls away from grace,
it is by the seduction of the demon ; if heresy arises,
the devil has suggested it ; and some of the Fathers

go so far as to challenge the pagans to a sort of exor
cising match, by way of testing the truth of Chris
tianity. Medieval Christianity is at one with patristic,

on this head. The masses, the clergy, the theo
logians, and the philosophers alike, live and move and
have their being in a world full of demons, in which

sorcery and possession are every-day occurrences.

                 1^.,pp. 215, 216.
                THE CONTROVERSIALIST            200.

Nor did the Reformation make any difference.
Whatever else Luther assailed, he left the traditional

demonology untouched ; nor could any one have
entertained a more hearty and uncompromising belief
in the devil, than he and, at a later period, the Cal-
vinistic fanatics of New England did. Finally, in
these last years of the nineteenth century, the demon-
ological hypotheses of the first century are, explicitly
or implicitly, held and occasionally acted upon by the
immense majority of Christians of all confessions.1

But although this be so with the loose adherents of

current creeds ; although the man who smiles when

he hears the story of the demons passing into the

bodies of terrified swine has a trembling of soul when

he hears of the temptation of Jesus by the devil, so

that, feeling scepticism to be somewhat perilous, he

carries his belief in demonology to a " suspense ac
count," Huxley added that he ventured " to doubt

whether, at this present moment, any Protestant

theologian who has a reputation to lose will say that

he believes the Gardarene story."

Dr. Wace at once retorted that, so far as he was
                                                " I repeat,"
concerned, the doubt had no foundation.
Ihe said, " that
                1 believe               and that Mr. Huxley has

removed the only objection to my believing it,"it it,

namely, that to reject                  would be denial of the

veracity of Jesus. While humorously disclaiming
any responsibility for the confirmation of Dr. Wace's

                Coll. Essays, v. pp. 322, 323.
210 HUXLEY

belief that " the spiritual world comprises devils, who,

under certain circumstances, may enter men and be
transferred from them to four-footed beasts," 1

Huxley could but admire the courage, whatever might

obpepotnheento. pin"ionDr.heWhaecled,"ofhethesaidin,te"llihgaesncrea,iseodf                                        his
                                                                                                                   for

himself a monument are perennius." Huxley was

charitably silent as to the appropriate inscription to be

put on it.

In the attack upon agnosticism which led to the

controversy, Dr. Wace accused the agnostics of thus
           themselves to avoid the " unpleasant signifi

           attaching to the term infidel," which, like
"dubbing

cance "

" freethinker," strange as it may seem in this

twentieth century, still appears to convey reproach.
And he added, in minatory tartness, that " it
                                                                                         aand

                                                                                                            is,

                                                                                                                                       2
ought to be, an unpleasant thing for man to have to

say plainly that he does not believe in Jesus Christ."
Whatever vague threat the word "unpleasant"

might convey, whether hints of the secular arm, or

social ostracism, or eternal punishment, any possible

penalty was not likely to weigh with Huxley. He

retorted that the proposition

"that      ought to be" unpleasant for any man to say
1

       it
               is,

                                                                                      »
anything which he sincerely and, after due deliberation,
            to my mind, of the most profoundly
believes,

Coll. Essays, v. p. 415.                                                                 Coll. Essays, v. p. 210.
                THE CONTROVERSIALIST                                      211

immoral character.            I verily believe that the great

good which has been effected in the world by Chris

tianity has been largely counteracted by the pestilent
doctrine on which all the Churches have insisted, that

honest disbelief in their more or less astonishing
creeds is a moral offence, indeed, a sin of the deepest

Ifdye, deserving and involving the same future retribu
tion as murder and robbery.             we could only see,
in one view, the torrents of hypocrisy and cruelty,
the lies, the slaughter, the violations of every obliga
tion of humanity, which have flowed from this source
along the course of the history of Christian nations,
our worst imaginations of hell would pale beside the

vision.1

   As to the use of the term "agnostic," Huxley

says --

  IWhen     reached intellectual        maturity and began to
                                         atheist, a theist, or a
ask myself  whether I was an

I Ipantheist ; a materialist or an idealist ; a Christian or

a freethinker ; found that the more learned and
Ireflected, the less ready was the answer , until, at
last, came to the conclusion that I had neither art
nor part with any of these denominations, except the
last. The one thing in which most of these good

Ipeople were agreed was the one thing in which
differed  farocmerttahienm."
attained                        They    --wehreadq, umiteoresuroer  they  had
                              gnosis,"                              less  suc
Icessfully, solved the problem of existence; while
was quite sure I had not, and had a pretty strong con
viction that the problem was insoluble.2

At any rate, whatever explanation of the universe

there may be, Huxley was satisfied that theology had

1 lb., p. 241.                          1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 238.
212 HUXLEY

not supplied it. Joining the Metaphysical Society,
he found in that "remarkable confraternity of
antagonists" every variety of philosophical and
theological opinion represented, most of the members

being " -ists of one sort or another." So, nameless
himself, he " conceived the appropriate title of
' agnostic.' " " It came," he says, " into my head as

suggestively antithetic to the 1 gnostic ' of Church
history, who professed to know so much about the

very things of which I was ignorant." But, as the

word implies, it connotes neither confession of faith
nor doctrinal formula ; neither affirmation nor denial.

" And dares stamp nothing false where he finds noth

ing sure." 1

Agnosticism, in fact, is not a creed, but a method,
the essence of which lies in the rigorous application
of a single principle. That principle is of great
gawonhotoidqus; ai"tiyd,i;t"itTisirsytahsaelol ldftohuainsngdSsao, tcirhoaontledsof;fasattshbeoyldRthaeasftothrwmehawictrihoitnei,sr
which simply illustrated the axiom that every man
should be able to give a reason for the faith that is in
him ; it is the great principle of Descartes ; it is the
fundamental axiom of modern science. Positively,
the principle may be expressed : In matters of the
intellect, follow your reason as far as it will take you,
without regard to any other consideration.  And
negatively : In matters of the intellect do not pre

tend that conclusions are certain which are not dem-

1 Matthew Arnold, Empedocles.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  213

Ionstrated or demonstrable. That take to be the

agnostic faith, which if a man keep whole and un

dented, he shall not be ashamed to look the universe
in the face, whatever the future may have in store for
him. 1

   It was no hard matter to show that the vagueness
was on the other side. The phrase " belief in Jesus
Christ" has as many meanings as there are sects.
The Episcopalian has one definition of it; the Uni
tarian has another. And Huxley showed what diffi

culty attends any effort to construct a consistent
portrait of Jesus from the Synoptics and the gospel

of John, and then to reconcile this with the Jesus of
the creeds. The New Testament witnesses to dis
ruptions on the question of "belief" in him soon
after his death. His immediate followers were

" Nazarenes," who acknowledged his brother James

as their head, and who conformed to the Jewish law,
differing from their copatriots only in believing that
the Messiah had already come in the person of Jesus.
The division of the disciples of the Master into

Nazarenes and Christians, which latter appellation is
said to have been first used at Antioch, arose through
the contention of Paul and Barnabas that the com

"mands regarding circumcision and abstinence from

certain foods were abrogated. So the primitive

                  1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 245, and see ante, p. 40.
214 HUXLEY

Church," around whose story ecclesiastical historians

have cast a halo, was " no dogmatic dovecot pervaded

by the most loving unity and doctrinal harmony."

Nazarenism became " a damnable heresy, while the

younger doctrine throve and pushed out its shoots

into that endless variety of sects, of which the three
strongest survivors are the Roman and Greek

Churches and modern Protestantism."1

  A masterly summary of the rise and development

of Christianity, of the foreign influences which shaped

and of the mythologies, the pagan rites and cere
it,
               is

                                2
monies, themselves of barbaric origin, which incor
                                   s),
                                               a

                                                                          :

                                                               it

                                                           It
porated,                         given in the essay on the " Evolution of

Theology."                         This should be read in conjunction

with the prologue to the fifth volume of Collected
                                                                 " cost
Essays (of which Huxley wrote to friend

me more time and pains than any equal number of

pages have ever written " in which the history of
is

     I
the struggle between Naturalism and Supernaturalism

outlined, and the evidence on which the doctrine

of Evolution rests, set forth. Both papers will help

to clear away the haze which hangs round questions
in the discussion of which the spirit of the advocate

rather than of the truth-seeker    present. Strauss
                                   2

                                                   is
                                                             is
said that " the true criticism of dogma its history,"

because in this are to be found the indictment of hu-

'  Coll. Essays, v. p. 231.        lb., pp. 367-371.             298.
              THE CONTROVERSIALIST     215

manity against creeds between which and the facts of

life and nature there is no correspondence, since they

remain puzzles to the head and strangers to the heart.

As Emerson says, " The prayers and dogmas of our

Church are like the zodiac of Denderah and the as

tronomical monuments of the Hindoos, wholly in

sulated from anything now extant in the life and the

business of the people." 1

  In place of the " tangled Trinities," the logoma

chies which only bewilder and perplex, Huxley asked

the Churches to revive "a conception of religion
which," he says, " appears to me as wonderful an in

spiration of genius as the art of Pheidias or the
science of Aristotle. ' And what doth the Lord re

quire of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy,
Ifand to walk humbly with thy God ? '
                                       any so-

called religion takes away from this great saying of

Micah, I think it wantonly mutilates, while, if it
Iadds thereto, think it obscures the perfect ideal of

religion." 2

All that is best in the ethics of the modern world,
in so far as it has not grown out of Greek thought, or
Barbarian manhood, is the direct development of the
ethics of old Israel. There is no code of legislation,
ancient or modern, at once so just and so merciful, so
        to the weak and poor, as the Jewish law ; and
tender  Gospels are to be trusted, Jesus of Nazareth

if the

1 " The American Scholar."  » Coll. Essays, iv, p. 161.
2l6 HUXLEY

Himself declared that He taught nothing but that
which lay implicitly, or explicitly, in the religious and
ethical system of  His people.
   And the scribe  said unto Him,                                    Of a truth,  Teacher,

Thou hast well said that he is one ; and there is none

other but he, and to love him with all the heart, and

with all the understanding, and with all the strength,

and to love his neighbor as himself, is much more

than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices (Mark
xii- 32> 33)-
   Here is the  briefest  of summaries                                          of the teaching

of the prophets of Israel of the eighth century ; does
the Teacher, whose doctrine is thus set forth in His

tpsowrledes,reenodcne,dtihsrecerpeuceodtinlaytt,re"aryat,hnedthaertexppJleoiessdui,tsio"nTsa?hwoNuthaayat r;tHewnoe"t  are

                                                                                                                       an

                                                                                                                       far

fsroo-Smcoalltethhdeat"kinAI gptdohositnmlkeso'tfh"aGttoodet.vh"een   if the    cr"eeAdtsh,afnraomsianth,"e

                                                                     so-called
were swept into oblivion ; and even if the human

race should arrive at the conclusion that, whether a

bishop washes a cup or leaves it unwashed, is not a
matter of the least consequence, it will get on very

well. The causes which have led to the development

of morality in mankind, which have guided or im

pelled us all the way from the savage to the civilised

state, will not cease to operate because a number of

ecclesiastical hypotheses turn out to be baseless.

And, even if the absurd notion that morality is more
the child of speculation than of practical necessity
and inherited instinct had any foundation ; if all the
world is going to thieve, murder, and otherwise mis
conduct itself as soon as it discovers that certain por
tions of ancient history are mythical ; what is the
relevance of such arguments to any one who holds by
the Agnostic principle ? 1

                   1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 316.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST                         217

   Turning briefly to Mr. Gladstone's intervention in
the controversy, his chief concern was about Hux

ley's charge against Jesus as wantonly destroying other
people's property. He was sceptical as to the pigs

numbering two thousand, and in a foot-note to the

concluding chapter of the Impregnable Rock   of Holy

Scripture suggests that " so large a number  may be

due to the error of a copyist, or very possibly a

marginal gloss, which afterwards crept into the text."

But as the existence of demons was accepted by Mr.

Gladstone as a matter of course, the statistics as to

the pigs are of minor importance, except as they may

affect the question of an inspired text. What he

sought to prove was that the keepers of the swine

were Jews, and that therefore they were justly pun

ished for their breach of the Mosaic law. Josephus

is quoted as evidence. But Huxley showed con
clusively that Mr. Gladstone had misread Josephus,

and he established beyond question that Gadara was a

Gentile, and not a Jewish city. All in vain. Mr.

Gladstone stuck to his statements, and as edition after
edition of the Impregnable Rock was issued without

modification, there can be little wonder that while in

publicly criticising these methods Huxley called them

" peculiar," in private correspondence he spoke of the
man who practised them as a " copious shuffler," 1

  1 II. 122. In a letter to Colonel Ingersoll, written in March,
2l8 HUXLEY

and bracketed him with Owen and Bishop Wilber-

force as belonging " to a very curious type of human

ity, with many excellent and even great qualities, and

one fatal defect -- utter untrustworthiness." 1 It is in

teresting to note here that in a conversation with Mr.
Lionel Tollemache, Mr. Gladstone " denied genius to
Huxley, but allowed it to Owen and Romanes " ! 2

Among the outside criticisms which the controversy

provoked was that which suggested that both dispu

tants " might be better occupied than in fighting over

the Gadarene pigs."  Upon this Huxley pertinently

commented : --

  If these too famous swine were the only parties to

the suit, I, for my part, should fully admit the justice

of the rebuke. But, under the beneficent rule of the

Court of Chancery, in former times, it was not un
common that a quarrel about a few perches of worth
less land ended in the ruin of ancient families and the
                                and I think that our ad-
engulfing   of great estates ;
monisher                        the analogy -- to note the
            failed to observe

momentous consequences of the judgment which may

be awarded in the present apparently insignificant
action in re the swineherds of Gadara.
   The immediate effect of such judgment will be the
decision of the question, whether the men of the nine
teenth century are to adopt the demonology of the

1889, Huxley says : " Gladstone's attack on you is one of the best

things he has written. I do not think there is more than fifty per

cent, more verbiage than is necessary, nor any sentence with more

than two meanings."-- Literary Guide, December, 1901.
' II. 341.                      3 Talks with Mr. Gladstone.
                 THE CONTROVERSIALIST                                           219

men of the first century, as divinely revealed truth, or
           it,
to reject
                                is
           as degrading falsity.1

   Yet, complete as the discomfiture of the current

theology in its conflict with historical criticism of its

documents, the Impregnable Rock     of        Holy Scripture re

mains in demand, and Dr. Wace is, we suppose, still

a  power in the pulpit. The chains of custom and

tradition still bind, and indifference still paralyses, the

souls of men. In this, and not in active and deep
conviction of the truth of its creeds, the strength of

orthodoxy lies.     has made unto itself more sure
           ;

                      It

                                                       is
                                                                          is a
"habitation in yielding to " the form and pressure of

the time its official representatives have never aban

doned that defence of privilege which                                           of greater

moment than defence of what left of the faith, and

the roots of ecclesiastical institutions have become

more closely intertwined with those of the body

politic, so that attack upon the one menace to the
                                    is
other.                                                is
                                    justified of her children."
   Nevertheless, " wisdom
" Much water has flowed             under the bridges " since

1864, when       number of clergymen, consistently
            a
                        a           declaration of faith that Jesus
enough, formulated

taught the doctrine of everlasting punishment, and

begged their brethren to sign       it  "for the love of

                 1  Coll. Essays, v. p. 414.
220 HUXLEY

God";1 or even since 1891, when another group,
who had not bowed the knee to the Baal of modern

scholarship, affirmed their belief that " the canonical

scriptures of the Old and New Testaments declare

incontrovertibly the actual historical truth in all rec

ords, both of past events and of the delivery of pre
dictions to be thereafter fulfilled." 2 In fact, the
abrasion of incredible and inhuman dogmas has gone

on at so rapid a rate that belief in them might be
thought to be limited to the vulgar and illiterate,

were it not for restatements of the following order,

which is quoted from the widely circulated worldly

and other-worldly British Weekly. In commenting

on certain articles in the Encyclopedia Biblica the

reader is advised to " take the Gospels, the Acts, and

the Epistles, and erase from them as incredible every
thing that does not affirm miracle. He will find that

the narrative of miracle is so welded with facts and

words and inferences, that to cut it out is to reduce
the whole to a rag-heap." But these strident voices

are softened in the atmosphere of the new knowledge.
Dogmas are dying--very slowly -- as other supersti

tions have died, because they cannot adapt themselves
to changed conditions. They are explained, and their
explanation is their doom.

  1 Life and Letters of Dean Stanley, iL p. 1 58.

   » Coll. Essays, v. p. 23.
THE CONTROVERSIALIST                         221

Truly, " wisdom is justified of her children " :

well-nigh all for which Huxley contended is conceded,
and the rest will follow in due time. The admissions

as to the unhistorical element in the Bible which are

made by modern theologians are not limited to the

Old Testament. The great Dictionary of the Bible?
already referred to, in which the best scholarship of

Britain and the Continent is embodied, and which has

as its chief editor " the Oriel Professor of the In

terpretation of Holy Scripture at Oxford," contains

articles, as quotations have shown already (see p. 199,

200), which a generation ago would have given the

Dean of Arches a busy time over trials       for heresy.
                                             by the late
In the article on " Jesus " he is spoken of
Dr. Bruce as " the child of his time and people,"

and, concerning the Passion, the same writer says,

" For modern criticism the story, even in its most

historic version, is not pure truth, but truth mixed

with doubtful legend," although, " when examined

with a critical microscope, not a few of the relative
incidents stand the test." In the article on the

" Gospels " Professor Schmiedel doubts " whether any

credible elements are to be found in them," and from

the entire body of the reported sayings of Jesus he
chooses five passages which, it is suggested, may form

" foundation-pillars for a truly scientific life of Jesus,"

in whom, Professor Schmiedel adds, "we have to do
222 HUXLEY

with a completely human being. The divine is to be
sought in him only in the form in which it is capable

of being found in a man." Of the Fourth Gospel,

which he places towards the latter half of the second

century, this estimate is given --

   A book which begins by declaring Jesus to be the
logos of God, and ends by representing a cohort of

Roman soldiers as falling to the ground at the majesty
of His appearance, and by representing one hundred
pounds of ointment as having been used at His em
balming, ought by these facts alone to be spared such
a misunderstanding of its true character as would be
implied in supposing that it meant to be a historical
work.

After such strong meat it would seem but the offer

ing of milk to babes for the writers to suggest that

the  narrative of the   blasting of  the fig-tree by Jesus
has                     which are    obvious and cannot
     " improbabilities

be explained away," or that in the Zaccheus incident

" there are difficulties in the way of conceding more

than an ideal truth to this delightful story."

From these concessions there is but a short step to

the larger concessions of the school of Schleier-

macher, revived by Sabatier, Gardner, and others, who

base Christianity on the facts of religious experience,
transferring, as the last-named writer explains, " the

support of Christian doctrine from history to psychol
THE CONTROVERSIALIST  223

ogy, from the history of facts to the history of ideas."
Upon which the obvious comment is that the ad
herents of every other religion may find equal validity
for it in the facts of their experience.
                                       V

                        THE CONSTRUCTOR

   In the prologue to his Controversial Essays Huxley

says, " I have hitherto dwelt upon scientific Natural

ism chiefly in its critical and destructive aspect. But
the present incarnation of the spirit of the Renascence

differs from its predecessor in the eighteenth century

in that it builds up as well as pulls down." 1 What

the structure should be is indicated in his controversy

with Mr. Gladstone, and to this may be added a pas
sage from a letter to Mr. Romanes : --

--  I have a     great  laretesrpe"ct   for the Nazarenism  of Jesus
                  for                  Christianity." But   the only
    very little

religion that makes appeal to me is prophetic Judaism.
Add to it something from the best Stoics, and some

Ithingfrom  Spinoza, and something from     Goethe, and
      is a  religion for men. Some of
there                                       these days I
think will make a cento out of the works of these

people.2

   The Hebrew prophets made special appeal to Him,

since, "to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk
humbly before thy God " was to base religion on the

stable foundation of human relations. There would

1 Coll. Essays, v. p. 41.                   » II. 339.

                                       224
                              THE CONSTRUCTOR                   225

be no need to omit the last words of that verse, be
cause the doctrine of evolution is not necessarily
anti-theistic.

It does not even come into contact with Theism,
considered as a philosophical doctrine. That with

which it does collide, and with which it is absolutely
inconsistent, is the conception of creation which the

ological speculators have based upon the history nar

rated in the opening of the book of Genesis. There
is a great deal of talk and not a little lamentation
about the so-called religious difficulties which physical
science has created. In theological science, as a mat
ter of fact, it has created none. Not a solitary
problem presents itself to the philosophical Theist at

the present day, which has not existed from the time
that philosophers began to think out the logical
grounds and the logical consequences of Theism.

All the real or imaginary perplexities which flow from
the conception of the universe as a determinate mech
anism, are equally involved in the assumption of an
Eternal, Omnipotent, and Omniscient Deity. The
theological equivalent of the scientific conception of
order is Providence ; and the doctrine of determinism
follows as surely from the attributes of foreknowledge
assumed by the theologian, as from the universality of
natural causation assumed by the man of science.
The angels in ' Paradise Lost ' would have found the
t"asFkateo,f  enlightening Adam upon the                          of
              Foreknowledge, and Free-will     "mynsotteriaes   whit
                              if their pupil had been educated
"moRreeal-dsicffhicuulelt,,"                                    in   a
                               and trained in every laboratory       a
                                                                of

modern university. In respect of the great problems
of philosophy the post-Darwinian generation
                                                                is,  in

one sense, exactly where the prae-Darwinian gener
ation were. They remain insoluble. But the present
226 HUXLEY

generation has the advantage of being better provided
with the means of freeing itself from the tyranny of

certain sham solutions.1

   What Renan says of Marcus Aurelius applies to

Huxley : " he resolutely severed moral beauty from all

definite theology ; he did not permit duty to depend

on any metaphysical opinions concerning a First
Cause." Hence his opposition to the theory of
morals as innate, and as of supernatural origin.
Every man, it is held by the intuitive school, is born
with the faculty of discerning right from wrong,
while, superfluous as this would seem, the declaration
of what actions are right and what actions are wrong
is to be found in divinely given codes, of which that
of the Ten Words or Commandments is cited as an

example. Hence springs the well-nigh universal be
lief in the interdependence of morals and dogma ; the

belief that to err in the one is to err in the other.
Hence, also, the historical accuracy of the narrative
being assumed, the belief that man's power of choice
as a free agent between good and evil was first exer
cised in Eden.2 Less momentous, according to cur-

1 Huxley's chapter in Darwin's Life and Letters, ii. p. 203 ; and

cf. ii. p. 302.
   2The essence of that which is improperly called the freewill

doctrine is that occasionally, at any rate, human volition is self-

caused, that is to say, not caused at all ; for to cause oneself one
must have anteceded oneself --which is, to say the least of diffi
cult to imagine. -- Coll. Essays, ix.  p.
                                                                                   it,
                                       142.
                  THE CONSTRUCTOR  227

rent theories of the consequence of Adam's fall to

mankind, but more impressive, was the scene at the
foot of Mount Sinai, when Jahveh made known

through Moses that He would appear in " a thick

cloud," so that the people might hear Him when He
spoke to their leader. And they beheld, the writer of
Exodus narrates, the descent of the god in fire upon

the mountain, when " God spake all these words " of
the Ten Commandments, and wrote them with His

own finger upon two tables of stone. Thus, in a
code, the legend of whose divine origin is accepted
throughout Christendom, the making of images and
murder, the breaking of the seventh day of the week

as a rest-day and theft, are put upon the same plane

of ethics, and the confusion between sin against man
and offences against ritual emphasised.

   Human nature being what it the supersession of
theories of ethical codes as integral parts of revelation
seems as far off as the Greek Kalends. Nevertheless,
                                 is,
some advance towards rational theories of moralsis
                                                is

                                                                       is
being made, and in this matter Herbert Spencer, in

his Data  Ethics, and Huxley, in more fugitive
        is

             of

                           ; by
form, have done much. That death not the penalty

of sin    proved               the indisputable evidence of the

fossil-yielding rocks but wrong-doing still held to
be an infraction of divine law, and to involve pains
and penalties in future state. As opposed to this,
                  a
228 HUXLEY

wrong-doing is held, under the doctrine of evolution,
to be an infraction of human law.

   The actions we call sinful are as much the conse
quence of the order of nature as those we call virtu
ous. They are all part and parcel of the struggle for
existence through which all living things have passed,

and they have become sins because man alone seeks a
higher life in voluntary association.1

   We are in ignorance alike as to the beginnings of
consciousness and the beginnings of ethics. But as
we trace the evolution of the nervous system from

irritability in the lowest organisms to sensibility in its
ever-increasing complexity, till the higher we ascend
the more acute do we find the feelings associated with
pain and pleasure, so it is permissible to trace the
germs of morality, which lie in sympathy, among the
social animals. Into the marvels of their organisa
tion, perhaps more astounding among invertebrates,
as ants and bees, than among the higher gregarious
mammals, there is neither need nor space to enter here ;
enough that the links in the chain of psychical life of
man and the creatures beneath him are unbroken.
Moreover, the evidences as to the social bases of

ethics are contained in human history.2 The terms
   1 II. 282.

   2 To whatever extent Mr. Balfour may draw untenable inferences
from such premises, the admission made in the new edition of
his Foundations of Belief is significant. He says that *' study of
THE CONSTRUCTOR  229

" good " and " evil " have no meaning till communal

life begins. Where there is no society there is no

sin. A solitary man on an uninhabited island can do

no wrong, but when Robinson Crusoe meets Friday,

the question of behaviour of one to the other arises ;

and conduct is ethic. Restraint on individual action

begins ; and the morality of the action is determined

by circumstances ; hence the relativity of morals, and

the' origin of artificial codes which, ruled solely by
conventions, make a breach of etiquette a less

pardonable offence than the seduction of a woman.

   Upon the general basis of ethics Huxley speaks
with no uncertain sound : --

   Moral duty consists in the observance of those
rules of conduct which contribute to the welfare of
society, and, by implication, of the individuals who

compose it.

   The end of society is peace and mutual protection,
so that the individual may reach the fullest and
lbhikyigehwetshhtiechliofetthheiasrttaesinond-acbailsleletdobybleamwaastnt.aoinf eTNdhaeaturerreudl--eisscbooyvfeorcabobsnelderuv--act
tion and experiment, and only in that way.

   Some thousands of years of such experience have

evolution and modern anthropology is making us realise that the
beginnings of morality are lost among the self-preserving and
race-prolonging instincts which we share with the animal creation;
that religion in its higher forms is a development of infantine and
often brutal superstitions ; and that in the pedigree of the noblest
and most subtle of our emotions are to be discerned primitive
strains of coarsest quality."
230 HUXLEY

led to the generalisations that stealing and murder, for
                                    with the ends of society.
example,   are   inconsistent
                 more doubt         that they are so than that
There is   jio

unsupported stones tend to fall. The man who

steals or murders breaks his implied contract with
society, and forfeits all protection. He becomes an
outlaw, to be dealt with as any other feral creature.
Criminal law indicates the ways which have proved
most convenient for dealing                with him.
   All            would                                  no " moral
        "  this  all, just  be      true   if men had
sense       at              as      there                perspective
                                           are rules of

which must be strictly observed by a draughtsman,
and are quite independent of his having any artistic

sense.

   The moral sense is a very complex affair -- de
pendent in part upon associations of pleasure and

pain, approbation and disapprobation, formed by
education in early youth, but in part also on an in
nate sense of moral beauty and ugliness (how origi
nated need not be discussed), which is possessed by
                                    strength, while
some    peoofpliet --injusgtreaast  some children    some   are totally
devoid                                               draw,  or are en

chanted by       "mCuhsiecrrywhiRleipeme"refrionmfan"tsR, uwlehileBroittahnenrsia,d"o
not know
nor can represent the form of the simplest thing to
the end of their lives.1

Now for this sort of people there is no reason why
they should discharge any sort of moral duty, ex
cept from fear of punishment in all its grades, from
mere disapprobation to hanging, and the duty of
society is to see that they live under wholesome fear
of such punishment, short, sharp, and decisive.
For the people with a keen innate sense of moral
beauty there is no need of any other motive. What
they want is knowledge of the things they may do
and must leave undone, if the welfare of society is

                 1 Cf. Coll. Essays, vi. p. 239.
THE CONSTRUCTOR            23I

to be attained. Good people so often forget this that
some of them occasionally require hanging as much

Ifas the bad.
        you ask why the moral inner sense is to be

(under due limitations) obeyed, and why the few who
are steered by it move the mass in whom it is weak ?
I can only reply by
                        ptBhueetteitsnhegonvseeannoo--tfhebcreaarruqytuyetshitseiosnlte,rsosnWgeh--ny
do the few in whom

Shakespeare, Raffaele,

dowed multitude away ? But they do, and always
will. People who overlook that fact attend neither

to history nor to what goes on about them.

   Benjamin Franklin was a shrewd, excellent, kindly

man. I have a great respect for him. The force of

genial common-sense respectability could no further
go. George Fox was the very antipodes of all this,
and yet one understands how he came to move the
world of his day, and Franklin did not.

  As to whether we can all fulfil the moral law, I

should say hardly any of us. Some of us are utterly
incapable of fulfilling its plainest dictates. As there

are men born physically cripples and intellectually
idiots, so there are some who are moral cripples and

idiots, and can be kept straight not even by punish

ment. For these people there is nothing but shut-

ting-up, or extirpation.1

   In the early stages of man's history ethics had no
connection with theology.

   With the advance of civilisation, and the growth
of cities and of nations by the coalescence of families
and of tribes, the rules which constitute the common
foundation of morality and of law become more nu

merous and complicated, and the temptations to break

                                    1 H. 305, 306.
232 HUXLEY

or evade many of them stronger. In the absence of a
clear apprehension of the natural sanctions of these

rules, a supernatural sanction was assumed ; and
imagination supplied the motives which reason was
supposed to be incompetent to furnish. Religion, at

first independent of morality, gradually took morality

under its protection ; and the supernaturalists have
ever since tried to persuade mankind that the ex

istence of ethics is bound up with that of super-

naturalism.1

   It has been so much the worse for both. For if
the ethical code is low, the conception of the god

who is assumed to be its author suffers as the ethical

ideal advances ; and if the ethics are made dependent

upon a theology which becomes discredited, they
stand or fall with it. Doubtless, in rude and turbu

lent ages, no small gain accrued through the associa
tion of a humane code of conduct with supernatural
dogmas, but the engine of aggrandisement which this
put into the hands of sacerdotalism rendered the
divorce imperative as society advanced.

   Theological apologists who insist that morality will
vanish if their dogmas are exploded, would do well to
consider the fact that, in the matter of intellectual
veracity, science is already a long way ahead of the
Churches ; and that, in this particular, it is exerting
an educational influence on mankind of which the
Churches have shown themselves utterly incapable.2

    ' Coll. Essays, v. p. 53., and cf. iv. p. 361.
    · Coll. Essays, v. p. 142.
                THE CONSTRUCTOR                    233

Moreover, a code of morals resting on the assumption
of supernatural authority seeks to enforce its decrees
by threats of penalties inflicted under supernatural
conditions, threats which are found to be feebly

operative upon conduct. Discarding such assump

tion, the evolutionist appeals to more tangible mo
tives ; to the fact that actions make or mar other

lives, and retard or quicken the progress of mankind.
He shows that the law of causation operates in the
moral sphere, and that the consequences of our deeds
are immediate, or, in large degree, measurable. The
brevity of life thus becomes a sharper spur to duty,
and the ultimate destiny of the race, as predicted by

science, a stimulus to smooth its career.

   It may, Huxley says,

be well to remember that the highest level of moral
aspiration recorded in
                         history   was reached      by a few
ancient Jews-- Micah,   Isaiah,                    who took
                                  and the rest --
no count whatever of what might or might not happen
to them after death. It is not obvious to me why
the same point should not by-and-by be reached by
the Gentiles.1

This all-important question of social ethics filled
much of his thought from the old Rotherhithe days to
the end. It inspired the noble Romanes Lecture,

concerning which he wrote to the founder, " Of

                                  1 II. 3<H-
234 HUXLEY

course I will keep absolutely clear of theology. But
I have long had fermenting in my head some notions

about the relations of ethics and evolution (or rather
the absence of such as are commonly supposed)

which, I think, will be interesting to such an audi
Ience as may expect."1 The discourse provoked

much controversy and even more misunderstanding,

causing Huxley regret that he did not remember

Faraday's useful precept to lecturers, to assume that

even " select and cultivated " listeners knew nothing

whatever of the subject.2
   Some of Huxley's audience took the lecture as a

senile recantation of the faith as it is in Evolution ;

while, since there is no logical halting-point between

Agnosticism and Catholicism, the late Professor St.
George Mivart, whose fate it was to be excommuni
cated by his Church because he refused to sign a
monstrous assent to everything in the Bible, wel

comed the lecture as indicating a possible reconcilia
tion of Huxley with the Vatican.3

    Ethics and Evolution, to the preparation of which
Huxley gave the utmost care, and which will abide as
a masterpiece of sonorous English prose, was the
amplification of arguments used by him in various
previous utterances. It was an effort, he explained

· II. 350.  » Coll. Essays, ix. p. vii.

· Nineteenth Century, Aug., 1893, p. 210.
                   THE CONSTRUCTOR                                                         235

to more than one correspondent, " to put the Christian

doctrine, that Satan is the Prince of this world, upon
a scientific foundation " ! The main thesis was briefly

sketched in an essay, published five years previously

(in 1888), on the "Struggle for Existence in Human
Society," and appropriately reprinted in the volume

containing the Romanes Lecture.

In the strict sense of the word " nature," it denotes
the sum of the phenomenal world, of that which has
                   and will be and society, like art,
been, anda                It is ;                                                          by
                                                                                                  is
            is,                is
therefore part of nature. But       a                                                   convenient to

distinguish those parts of nature in which man playsit
                                                 is
the part of immediate cause, as something apart; and,

therefore, society, like art, usefully to be considered
as distinct from nature.
                                the more desirable, and

even necessary, to make this distinction, since society

differs from nature in having definite moral object;

whence   it   comes about that  the                                            course   sohar pecditizent--he
ethical                                                                        society
         man -- the member      of

bnmeearcne--sosfatrhitelhyeprurainnmsimitciavoleunktsienargvdatogome,tho--art   which the non-ethicala
                                                                                man as mere mem

                                                                               tends to adopt. The

latter fights out the struggle for existence to the bitter
end, like any other animal the former devotes his
best energies to the object of setting limits to the
struggle. . . . The ideal of the ethical man
to limit his freedom of action to sphere in which he
does not interfere with the freedom of others he
                          ;
                                     a

                                                                                        ;

                                                                         is

seeks the common weal as much as his own, and in
deed, as an essential part of his own welfare. Peace

both end and means with him and he founds his
is is                                                                          ;
                a
life on more or less complete self-restraint, which
   the negation of the unlimited struggle for existence.
236 HUXLEY

He tries to escape from his place in the animal king

dom, founded on the free development of the prin
ciple of non-moral evolution, and to establish a king
dom of Man, governed solely upon the principle of
moral evolution. For society not only has a moral

end, but, in its perfection, social life is embodied
morality.1

   In 1890 Huxley writes : " Of moral purpose I see

no trace in Nature. That is an article of exclusively

human manufacture --and very much to our credit.2

George Meredith gives rhythmic expression to that

view in his great poem on man's relation to Nature : --

      " He may entreat, aspire,

           He may despair, and she has never heed ;
           She drinking his warm sweat will soothe his need.
           Not his desire." *

To the many the argument seemed paradoxical, for

how, it was asked, could ethical nature, as the off
spring of cosmic nature, be at enmity with it ? In a
Prolegomena,4 which is longer than the lecture, Hux

ley contended that the seeming paradox is a truth.

   Taking, as an example, the ground on which his
house was built, he shows how the industry of man
has converted a patch of weed-choked, economically
unproductive soil into a fruitful garden, and how, if

· Coll. Essays, ix. pp. 202, 205.                 » II. 268.

' Poems and Lyrics of the Joy of Earth, p. 1 19.

* Coll. Essays, ix. pp. 1-45.
THE CONSTRUCTOR  237

the skill and labour by which this has been done are
withdrawn, nature, whose action never pauses, will

reassert sway, and convert the place into a wilderness.
The garden is a work of art, as is the house which
stands in it ; as is everything that man has produced.
And the effect of all that he does is to oppose, and,

for a time, arrest, the cosmic process, limiting the
area of ceaseless struggle and competition. Applying

this to human society, which, " at its origin, was as

much a product of organic necessity as that of the
bees," the "ape and tiger" instincts are found domi
nant. It was based on selfishness. The race was to

the swift, and the battle to the strong. Even then,

however, in the earliest grouping of a few families

into clans or gentes, the blood-tie, whose source is in

the parent, engendered a sympathy which assured

unity, and, therefore, some restraint on individual as
sertion. For sympathy is the germ-plasm of ethics.
Knowledge, the only begetter of a wider sympathy,
breaks down tribal divisions, and with the obvious

advantage which cooperation secures, enlarges the

narrow borders of primitive altruism, limits the area
of conflict, and mitigates the horrors of a state of

warfare which, at the outset, was chronic. But the

cosmic process is checked only locally and intermit

tently. To this the state of mankind, after thou
sands of years of advance from the feral state, wit
238 HUXLEY

nesses, since only in the minority of all who have

ever lived has that advance been made, and even

among these there needs small provocation to arouse

the lightly sleeping " tiger." Hence, wherever self-

restraint is practised, there is checking of the cosmic

process of bitter struggle by the ethical, defined by

Huxley as the " evolution of the feelings out of which

the primitive bonds of human society are so largely

forged into the organised and personified sympathy we
call conscience." 1 Then comes into play the golden

rule of Jesus, of Confucius, and of Plato : " May I
do to others as I would that they should do to me."2

  If the ethical process is not a part of the cosmical

process, it must have been imported, and is therefore
to be referred to supernatural intervention. But as

opposing one action against another, it has its corre

spondences in man's checks upon the operation of
natural selection, and in the forces at play within the
cosmos itself. For the equilibrium towards which all

things in the universe are tending is arrested by the

activity of the conflicting agencies of repulsion and at

traction ; and in all the mechanical means whereby
human life is strengthened and lengthened, the action

of natural selection is retarded. And, as already ob
served, the rudiments of ethics are found deep down
in the animal world. "Among birds and mammals

1 Coll. Essays, ix. p. 30.  » Laws, xi. 913 (Jowett's trans.).
               THE CONSTRUCTOR              239

societies are formed of which the bond in many cases
seems to be purely psychological -- that is to say, it
appears to depend upon the liking of the individuals
for one another's company. Love and fear come into
play, and enforce a greater or less renunciation of
self-will." 1

   But " the theory of evolution encourages no millen

nial anticipations." As the story of the formation
and dissolution of the solar system and kindred aggre
gations is but a chapter in a history which had no be
ginning and will have no end, so life as a whole upon
this globe is but a brief chapter of that history, and
the life of man a momentary episode in the chapter.

    Neither optimist nor pessimist in a world which he

"confessed was a hopeless riddle," 2 Huxley was no

dweller at ease in a scientific Zion. As in the intel

lectual sphere he had exercised the spirit of inquiry
by which alone advance in knowledge is possible, so
in the moral sphere he gave expression to the spirit of
discontent by which alone amelioration is possible.

   There  are  [he said]     two things I   really care about
--one is  the  progress                     thought, and the
                             of scientific
other is the bettering of the condition of the masses of
the people by bettering them in the way of lifting them
selves out of the misery which has hitherto been the
lot of the majority of them. Posthumous fame is

not particularly attractive to me, but, if I am to be

1 Coll. Essays, ix. p. 115.                 « II. 134.
240 HUXLEY

"remembered at all, I

man who did his best
                          would    rtahtehepr eoitplseho"ultdhabne   as      a
                          to help                                   by   any-

other title.
Even the best of modern civilisations appears to me
to exhibit a condition of mankind which neither em

bodies any     woIrthdyo  ideal nor even   possesses the merit
                          not hesitate to  express my opinion
of stability.
that, if there is no hope of a large improvement of
the condition of the greater part of the human family ;
if it is true that the increase of knowledge, the win
ning of a greater dominion over Nature which is its

consequence, and the wealth which follows on that

dominion, are to make no difference in the extent and
the intensity of Want, with its concomitant physical
Iand moral degradation, among the masses of the peo

ple, should hail the advent of some kindly comet,
which would sweep the whole affair away, as a desir

able consummation.

What profits it to the human Prometheus that he
has stolen the fire of heaven to be his servant, and
that the spirits of the earth and the air obey him, if
the vulture of pauperism is eternally to tear his very
vitals and keep him on the brink of destruction ? 1

   Moved by these gloomy facts to " work while it is

yet day," Huxley, found little, save for adverse criti

cism, in the social reform schemes which " have in

fested political thought for centuries." He had no

belief in " leaders " and " saviours " of society, or in

the " fanatical individualism of our time which at
tempts to apply the analogy of cosmic nature to so
ciety, and seriously debates whether the members of a

                   1 Coll. Essays, i. p. 423; and cf. v. p. 256.
                        THE CONSTRUCTOR                           241

community are justified in using their strength to conit,
strain one of their number to contribute his share to
the maintenance of or even to prevent him from 1
doing his best to destroy it," and which would limit
the exercise of State rights to the protection of itsa
subjects from aggression.2 Here, once more, he had
stirred up hornet's nest of criticism from variousa            a
quarters, the argument often taking the usual form of;

expletives. But, as he reminded his opponents, his

interest in these questions " did not begin the day be
fore yesterday " reflection and observation had only

deepened conviction, and the later essays on Gov
ernment, Capital, and the Struggle for Existence, em
phasised the position which he had taken up quar
ter of century earlier. Now, as then, he went to
the heart of the matter in insisting on the funda
mental importance of dealing with the population
question, since with short commons and lack of
elbow-room there was quick shunting of the ethical

process.

For the effort of ethical man to work towards                         a

1moral end              no means abolished, perhaps hardly

                    bymodified, the deep-seated organic impulses which

impel the natural man to follow his non-moral course.
One of the most essential conditions, not the chief
                                                  is

                                                    if
cause, of the struggle for existence, the tendency to
multiply without limit, which man shares with all

Coll. Essays, ix. p. 83.                                lb., p. 258.
                                                  2

                                                           i.
242 HUXLEY

ltiivpilnyg"  things.        It is notable  that " increase and                       mul
                is a                                                                  older
                          commandment       traditionally much

                                            is,
                                                                                    by
than the ten ; and that it                  perhaps, the only one

which has been spontaneously and ex animo obeyed
the great majority of the human race. But, in civ
ilised society, the inevitable result of such obedience
    the reestablishment, in                 all its  intensity, of
struggle for existence -- the               war of                                     that
is                                                   each against
                                                                                      all --
               ;
                      isthe mitigation or abolition of which was the chief
end of social organisation.1

" There no discharge in that war," and the strug

gle has rather increased in force than lessened since

Huxley wrote these words. Competition becomes

sharper and the cry for protection                           is     return to the
                                                                 a

narrow ethics of the tribe. The community that

trusts to old repute and disdains new methods, and

that artificially reduces each member of its industrial
classes to common level, will be worsted in battle
              is a
                                                                                   a
where the wounded receive no quarter, and where

starvation                the penalty of surrender. There sur

vives in many parts of the globe, notably in thickly-

peopled China, the practice of partly meeting the dif

ficulty of excess of population over means of sub

              infanticide while in former days, all the
sistence      by

                                          ;                  famine, war, and

                                                         by
world over, the ravages wrought

pestilence were unchecked. But the progress of

private and public morality has steadily tended to re
move the effects of those scourges, and the finer

                          1  Coll. Essays, ix. p. 205.
THE CONSTRUCTOR  243

spirits of the race dream of a society where no man
shall die of hunger, and no family mourn a member
slain in battle ; when the Golden Age of ancient
legend shall be fulfilled on the earth.

    Dealing with these islands, Huxley admits the jus

tice of the " insolent reproach " cast by Buonaparte.

On a soil which can feed less than half the popula

tion, we are compelled to be " a nation of shopkeep

ers." The shopkeeping implies buying and selling,
and if the goods offered are inferior to those of com
petitors, a ruinous reduction in exports will follow,
leaving a large proportion of the population, whose

only salvation is by work, with nothing to eat. A

further condition must be social stability. There
must be healthy homes, a cultivation of thrift, the at
tainment of a fair standard of material comfort, for

where la misire reigns there is inefficiency and handi

capping of the worker. And in remarking upon the
absence of these conditions in many quarters of great

industrial centres from London downwards, Huxley
drives home the fact that here, suspending their dif

ferences, " natural science and religious enthusiasm "

may work in concord towards one aim. He passes
from the importance of State-endowed education, into

which no theology shall intrude, to technical training,

the cost of which he suggests should be borne by the

districts benefited by it. But that is a detail, the im
244 HUXLEY

portant thing being to catch the " small percentage of

the population which is born with that most excellent

quality, a desire for excellence, or with special apti

tude of some sort or another, and turn them to ac

count for the good of society," whose highest aim
should be the making of men, not of millionaires ;

the development of character, not the equation of

" success " with the " accumulation of cash." " For

the increase of wealth--that               of the means of com
                               by
fort-- not, necessarily, good in itself; everything
      is                              I is,
depends on the way in which the wealth distributedis
                                                     is

                                                                                   1
and its effect on the moral character of the nation."

      No man can say where they will crop up like their
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                    ;
opposites, the fools and the knaves, they appear some
times in                       and sometimes in
the great         the palace                     the hovel but
                  thing to be  aimed at-- was    almost going to

--say,       the  most  important end of all social  arrangements
              to  keep  these glorious sports of     Nature from

being either corrupted         luxury or starved poverty,                                by

and to put them into the position in which they can
do the work for which they are specially fitted.2

      Throughout the papers on social subjects which fill

portions of the first, third, and ninth volumes of the

»1

                             it
                                          is
                                                                 by

                                                                                        ;
Collected Essays, criticism    followed                                                  definite sug

gestion. And so was with all matters, both prac

tical and speculative, with which he dealt the order

      Letters from John Chinaman, p. 27.
      Coll. Essays, ix. p. 210.
              THE CONSTRUCTOR                      245

of his mind was architectonic. To regard Huxley

as a compound of Boanerges and Iconoclast is to
show entire misapprehension of the aims which in
spired his labours. In Biology his discovery of the
structure of the Medusae laid the foundations of

modern zoology ; his theory of the origin of the skull

gave a firm basis to vertebrate morphology ; and his
luminous exposition of the pedigree of man imported

order where confusion had reigned. In the more im

portant matter of Education he formulated principles

whose adoption would bring out the best that is in

every scholar, and inspire him with love of whatever
" is of good          "
              report     ;  while  his  invention  of the

laboratory system of zoological teaching has been

adopted with the best results in every school and uni
versity of repute. In Theology he separated the

accidental elements from the essential, leaving as

residuum a religion that, coordinated with the needs

and aspirations of human nature, would find its high

est motive and its permanency in an ethic based on

sympathy.
    NOTE ON THE DOCTRINE OF THE
                    UNKNOWABLE.

   Since the passing of the foregoing pages through
the press, the following extracts from letters from
Huxley to Mr. F. C. Gould, written in 1889, have
appeared in the Literary Guide of January, 1902.
They are an interesting addition to the remarks quoted

on page 141 :

is  As   between  "Mard. ivSipdeinngcerlinaen,d"                              myself, the question

    not   one of                                                              but of an entire and

complete divergence as soon as we leave the founda
tions laid by Hume, Kant, and Hamilton, who are
                                                                               To my mind,
hm"eyAabdspobhlyiuloteHsoa"pmhpiilchtoailonl so;pfoharineedfsathtwheeersr.e"                       the
                                                                              finally knocked on
                                                                              Unknowable," in      the

                                                                                                  Mr.

Spencer's sense, is merely the Absolute redivivus, a
sort of ghost of an extinct philosophy, the name of a
Ifnegation hocus-pocussed into a sham thing.                                  I am
Ito talk about that of which have no knowledge at
all, I prefer the good old word God, about which there
is no scientific pretence.

  I have long been aware of the manner in which my

views have been confounded with those of Mr.
                                 more fully aware of our
Spencer, though no one was
divergence than the latter.       Perhaps I have done
wrongly in letting the thing     slide so long, but I was
anxious to avoid a breach with an old friend. . . .

                            246
NOTE ON THE DOCTRINE OF THE UNKNOWAbLE 247

Whether    the Unknowable        or  anqyuitoethceler arNoI uhmaveenonno
exists or
           does not exist, I     am

knowledge either way.      So with respect to whether
there is anything behind
                          Force or not, I am ignorant ;
I neither affirm nor deny. The tendency of the

human mind to idolatry is so strong that, faute de
mieux, it falls down and worships negative abstrac
tions, as much the creation of the mind as the stone
idol of the hands. The one object of the Agnostic
(in the true sense) is to knock this tendency on the
head whenever or wherever it shows itself. Our

physical science is full of it.
                            INDEX

Agnostic, an.                              BBrriotwscnh-lSi,eqPuraofreds,soDr,r.,14457..
                                           Bunsen, 148.
Agnosticism, 212.
Allman, Professor, 76.                     Canon, 205.
American Civil War, 25.                    Carlyle, 3, 15.
Amphibia, 80.                              Carpenter, Dr., 4, 107, 128.
Anaximander, 116.                          Cell-unit, 69, 78.
                                           Cherubim, 189.
Ancestor- worship, 179.                    Chimpanzee, 1 13.
Ape and man, 113, 118, 131.                Christianity, 214.
Argyll, Duke of, 51.                       Church and reforms, 167.
Aristotle, 67.                             Clericalism, 54, 161, 172.
Arnold, Matthew, 2.
                                           Ccelomata, 75.
Articulate speech, 136.                    Consciousness, 154, 228.
Ascidian, 77.                              Copernicus, 138.
Atomic theory, 155.                        Cowper-Temple clause, 40.
Authority, 160, 205.                       Cranks, 19.
                                           Creation story, 181, 188, 196.
Babylonia, 190, 199.                       Cunningham, Professor, 123,
Backbone of man, 114.
          MWr.altAe.r,J.,176, 1,10252. 8.           «35' 137-
Bagehot,                                   Cuvier, 68, 70, 182.
Balfuur,

Bathybius, 50.
Bible  in Board    Schools, 38.
  "    Huxley's    tribute to, 38-40.

Biological time, 91.                       Darwin, 7, 24, 60, 72, 97, 107,
Black, Dr. Sutherland, 192, 204.
Bonney, Canon, 186.
                                           185.
Brain structure, 121.                      Death sentences, 166.
   " of man and ape, 21, 22,                                 SHisetnerry,BiIllI,.
                                           Deceased Wife's                                27.
                                           De la Beche, Sir
         122.         at--
                                           Deluge story, 189, 195.
British Association                        Demonology, 198-200, 206.

Belfast, 49, 142.                          Descartes, 49, 130, 152, 212.
Glasgow, 123, 155.
Liverpool, 45.                             Descent of Man, 1 10.
Oxford, 20, 59, 108.                       Donnelly, Sir J., 19.
   York,
British    79.                             Draper, Dr., 21.
          Weekly,                          Driver, Dr., 186, 189, 190, 192.
                   220.
250 INDEX

Dubois, Dr., 132.                  Hades,    17E5r.nst,  76.
                                   Haeckel,
Earth, age of the, 88.
                                   Hartley, David, 135.
Eden story, 188, 196, 226.         Harvey, 69.
Edinburgh, 24.                     Heathorn, Miss, 8, 11.
Edinburgh Review, 23.
Education, 32-38, 245.             Hebrews, 186, 190.
Elohim, 175, 179.                  Hobbes,
Embryology, vertebrate, 77.        Hooker,   29,       152,   172.       62,  99,
Emerson, 197, 215.                           Sir             7, 29,
Encyclopedia Biblica, 192, 200,                        J.,

          220.                     108.
                                   Horse, 52,
Established Church, 163.           Huggins,     S8ir1-W83.,.    149.
Ethics, bases of, 55, 228, 229-    "HuHmuxel,ey1'3s0,
                                                         150.   6.
         232.
Ethics and Evolution, 59, 234.                         layer,"
Evolution and Theism, 225.
                                   Impregnable Rock of Holy
Exile in Babylon, 193, 199.        Scripture, 183, 217.
Exploratio Evangelica, 201.        Infancy, human, 1 17.
                                   Infanticide, 242.
                                   Inspiration, 194.
                                   Israelites,
Faraday,     7J3.,.  6.                   ''    173, 193.
                                        "       and Polynesians, 177.
Fayrer, Sir                                     ethics of, 215, 226.

Fishes, fossil, 79.                Jahveh (Jehovah), 175, 181,
Fiske, John, 116.
Flower, Sir W. H., 83.                     194, 227.
Forbes, Dr. Edward,                Jamaica Committee, 26.
Forster, W. E., 40.      1 1, 78.  Java, 132.
                                   Jesus, 199-202, 209, 210, 213,
Fossil man, 131.
Foster, Sir M., 64, 80, 95.                216.
Fourth Gospel, 222.
Frazer, Dr., 178, 184.             Jex Blake, Miss, 26.
Free will, 226.                    Jowett, Professor, 41, 165, 172.

Gadarene Swine, 201, 204,          Kelvin, Lord, 88,89, 91, 155.

        217, 218.                  Kingsley, Charles, 2, 16, 106.
                                   Kirchhoff, 149.
Garnett, Dr. R., 64.               Kuenen, 177.
Geological time, 91.
                                   Labyrinthodonts, 80.
Ghost-theory, 176, 179.
Gibbon, Edward, 2, 13.             Lamarck, 68, 70.                   Ray,    64,
Gibbon, the, 117.                  Lancelet, 77.
Gladstone, Mr., 25, 56, 61, 181,   Lankester, Professor

        206, 217.                         77. 95- '59-
Goethe, 19, 84.                    Lefevre, Mr. Shaw, 44.
Gore, Bishop, 56, 197.             Leibnitz, 129.
Gorilla, 115.                      Lessing, 3, 18.
Gospels, 199, 203, 208, 220.       Li"fe,  origin of, 146.
Greek speculation, 105.                    physical basis           of,  49,  77>

Green, J. R., 162.                          142.
                                   Linnaeus, 68, 86, 113.
                                  INDEX                                 251

Linnean Society, 99.                       Osborn, Professor, 118.
Literature and science, 34.
                                           Ourang-utan, 116.
Lowell, J. R., 18.                         Ow"en,  20, 58, 71, 84, 107, 218.
Lyell, Sir Charles, 71, 98, 1 10,                  and Huxley, 20, 22, 85,
                                                "3-
         112.
                                           Oxford, 20, 59.
Mallock, Mr. W. H., 51.                    Oxford, Bishop of, 21, 23, 107,

Malpighi, 68.                              218.

Malthus, 97.                               Paget, Sir James, 129.
Man"and       ape, 1 13-122.
              brute, 125.                  Palaeontology, 79, 86.
     "        gorilla, 115.                Patriarchal age, 190-192.
                                           Pentateuch, 72, 181, 186.
Man's Place in Nature,            24, 28,  Perry, Professor, 94.
                                           Picton, Mr. Allanson, 42.
        112,  W13i1ll.iam,  178.           Pithecanthropus erectus, 1 32.
Mariner,                                   Population question, 242.
                                           Preformation, 129.
Marsh, Professor, 82.                      Primates, 113, 118.
Materialism, 130, 144, 152.
Mathematics, 90.                           Protoplasm, 69, 142, 144.
Matter, 140, 141, 147.                     Psychical identities between
Medusa;, 9, 65, 74, 76, 245.
                                                   man and brute, 126.
Mental apparatus, 126.                     Pusey, Dr., 58, 186.
Meredith, George, 236.
Metaphysical Society, 159, 212.

Metaphysics, 151.                          Quarterly Review, 23, 102, 107.
Micah, 215.
Miracles, 202, 206.                        Rattlesnake, 7, 66, 76, 177.
Mitchell, Mr. Chalmers,           65,      Religion and science, 168.

     "3-                                   Reville, Dr.,   56,   181.
                                           Richardson,
Mitral valve, 163.                                        Sir   J., 7.
Mivart, Dr. St. George,
                                  128,     Rileyism, 41.

        165, 234.                          Rocks, age of, 91.
Morals, 226-234.                           Romanes, Dr., 218, 224.
Morley, John, 106, 162, 164,               Romanes Lecture, 59, 235.
                                                   College of Science,
185.                                       Ro"yal  Commissions, 47.     53,  57.
                                             "     Society, 9, 44. 48,  S3.  °°>
Nazarenes, 213, 224.
                                           86.
Necromancy, 175.
Neo-Darwinism, 103.                        Russell, Mr. George, 184.
Neo-Lamarckism, 103.
Nervous system, 130.                       Sabbath, 188.
New Testament. See Gospels.
                                           Sacerdotalism, 164.
New York, 51, 82.                          Salisbury, Lord, 59, 61, 92.
                                           Salvation Army, 27.
Oken, 19, 84.                              Sartor Resartus, 3, 15.
                                           Saul, 174.
Origin of Species, 20, 23, 67,             Sayce, Professor, 189, 190.
                                           Schleiden, 74.
       69. 79. 97. io4. «°7. '39,          School Board for London, 31.
                                           Schwann, 74, 77.
         165.

Origin of Species, Coming of
     Age of the, 28, 59.
252 INDEX

Science and religion, 168.             TThhiisrelwltoanll-,DyBeisrh, opS,ir1W59.. T., 16.
Science, training in, 5, 32.           Thummiui, 176.
Selborne, Lord, 184.                   Tidal friction, 89.
                                       Titles, 56.
Sense-impressions,     154.            Tonga Islands, 178.
Sheol, 175, 180.                       Tristram, Canon, 106.
Skull, origin of, 19, 84, 245.         Tyndall, 49, 51.
Slavery, 25.
Smith, Dr. G., 196.           '
Solar heroes, 191.
Soul, origin of, 129.                  Unknowable doctrine           of
Spencer, Herbert, 2, 4, 24, 71,             the, 140,
                                       Urim, 174, 176.  247.
104, 140, 227, 246.
Spirit and matter,
Spirits, belief in,    156.            Vertebrate skull, 19, 84.
                     199.
Spiritualism, 165.                     Victory, the, 6, 58.
Stan"ley,  Bishop, 7, 9.               Virchow, Professor, 9.
           Captain, 7.                 Vivisection, 45-47.
Stars, constitution of, 149.           Von Baer, 69, 74, 75.
Stephen, Leslie, 61.
                                       Wace, Dr., 206,
Style, 28.                             Wallace, A. R.,   209,  219.  "6,
                                                          9«.  98,
Su"n's  age, 90.
        constitution,  149.               127, 144-

Technical training, 35, 243.           Weismann, 103.          IOI.
                                       Westminister Review,
Tel-el-Amarna, 193.
Ten Commandments, 226.                 Whewell, Dr., 107.
Teraphim, 176.                         Wilberforce, Bishop, 21, 23,
Theology, characteristics of, 37,
                                          107, 218.
                                       Witchcraft, 208.
                                       Witch of Endor, 174.
Theology, Evolution of,          159,  Women, emancipation of, 26.
        166, 172, 214.
                                       Yale College, 52.
Theology in schools, 37.

                                 THE END

