Sir Henry Wentworth Acland, bart., K.C.B., F.R.S., regius professor
of medicine in the University of Oxford; a memoir by J.B. Atlay ...
with portraits and illustrations.

Atlay, J. B. (James Beresford), 1860-1912.
London : Smith, Elder & co., 1903.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t3zs31r33

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
Henry Acland
               Oxford

Printed at the University Press

        by HoBACE Hart
ACLAND IN YACHTING OILSKINS, 1880
Mr Henry Wentworth Acland, Bart.

                     K.C.B., RR.S.
      Regius Professor of Medicine in the

               University of Oxford
                     A Memoir

                                                             BY

                     J. B. ATLAY

                                            LATE SCHOLAR OF ORIEL COLLEGE
             AUTHOR OF ' LORD COCHRANe's TRIAL BEFORE LORD ELLENBOROUGH '

                     WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

                            LONDON

       SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE

                                                    1903

                                                    [v4// rights reserved^
fA ^^ ^
               PREFACE

When Sir Henry Acland died, he left a great

accumulation of private correspondence and of

papers relating to the subjects which from time
to time had occupied him during a long and

singularly varied life. To all of these, with
the exception of letters involving matters of
professional confidence, I have had, through
the kindness of his representatives, the fullest
access. I have also to acknowledge the unfailing
assistance which I have received from them and

from his family in general, while my thanks are
especially due to Miss Acland, but for whose
help and encouragement this Memoir of her

Father could not have been written.

   I also owe much to those who by letter or

word of mouth have given me valuable aid both
in recalling incidents in Sir Henry Acland's
career and in forming the estimate of his work
and influence which I have striven to present.
I should especially mention the names of
Sir William Turner, Sir John Burdon-Sander-
son, Mr. Pridgin Teale, Dr. Hatchett Jackson,
Mr. Story-Maskelyne, Professor Ray Lankester,
Dr. Billings (of New York), Mr. Lionel Muirhead,
the late Victor Carus, Dr. Lionel Beale, the
Rev. William Tuckwell, and Alderman Buckell
of Oxford.
vi PREFACE

   I have to thank the Marquis of Salisbury

for permission to pubhsh the letters from him

to Sir Henry which appear in this volume; and
also Mrs. Liddell for a similar permission with
regard to the letters of her late husband. The
executors of Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Ruskin
have kindly allowed me to make free use of the
material which has come into my hands. My
acknowledgements are also due to Father William
Neville, of the Oratory, Edgbaston, the custodian
of the papers of Cardinal Newman ; and to
Mrs. Brine, the surviving daughter of Dr. Pusey.
I ought to add that for much interesting matter
relating to the family life of the elder Sir Thomas
Acland and of the Cottons of Walwood I am

indebted to papers drawn up many years ago

for a different purpose by Miss Marriott, a sister
of the late Charles Marriott of Oriel.

            J. B. A.

May, 1903.
                   Kcmediial

                    Vv2

                    \00

                CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                              PAGE
I. The Aclands of Columb John . . . i
 II. Early Days -- Harrow -- Christ Church .
                                                                     13
....III. Thsetan'Pteinmobprleo--keA'--llAtShoeunlss, Rome, and Con-
                                                                     49
...IV. St. George's --Life in London                                 81

V. Edinburgh -- The Lee's Readership -- Mar-
         riage
                                                                     108

  VI.  Early Struggles for Science Teaching in                       130
 VII.                                                                161
          Oxford                                                     197
VIII.
       ....Home Life -- Professional Experiences --
          The Cholera

       The Fight for the Museum
IX. The Pre-Raphaelites -- The Wreck of the
         'Tyne' -- The Regius Professorship --The

         Medical Council                                             227

X. The Royal Physicianship -- Visit to America
         with the Prince of Wales . . . 259

XI. Owen and Huxley -- The Radcliffe Library
         --Work at Oxford -- Death of His Father 300

XII.   President of the Medical Council -- Royal
         Commissions -- University Politics --
          Friendships and Correspondence --Town

         and Gown                                                    334

XIII. Prince Leopold -- Ruskin-- Death of Mrs.

            Acland-- Home Life in Broad Street . 366

                   795G17
viii CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                               PAGE
XIV. The 'Lost Medical School* -- Sir Bartle
         ....Frere -- Visit to America -- Pusey and
         Newman --The Vivisection Debates .        . 395

XV. Politics -- Visit to the Holy Land -- The
         Yacht--Art and Artists
                                                      431

XVL  Retirement from the Medical Council --
        Resignation of the Professorship --
        Medical Missions -- Correspondence with       472
        Mr. Gladstone-- Last Days . . .

INDEX                                                 503

         ILLUSTRATIONS

Acland in Yachting Oilskins, 1880. . Frontispiece'.

Henry Acland : Crayon by George Richmond, R.A.,       104^

        1846                                          374

Mrs. Henry Acland : Drawing by W. E, Miller,

        1876

Henry Acland's Library, Broad Street, Oxford          392
                                                      468
Painting in Water Colours: 'A Squall coming
UP IN THE Bay of Biscay:' by Acland .
                                                   .

RusKiN AND Acland at Brantwood, 1893 . . 476
HENRY AC LAND

CHAPTER I

THE ACLANDS OF COLUMB JOHN

Few families in the West of England, or for that

matter in the whole kingdom, can boast a longer

ancestry or more unbroken descent than the Aclands

of Columb John in Devon. Shadowy Eccehns and
Acalans figure in dim succession far back in the

pedigree of 1620 which Mr. Chadwyck Healey has so
\recently completed
                     The death without offspring of

a certain Richard Akelane in the fifth generation from

the original Baldwin Eccelin is recorded as having

taken place in the twenty-first year of Edward HI, and

his nephew John is the first member of the family to
be described as ' Akelane of Akelane.' Thenceforward

the fortunes of the house march steadily on, field being

added to field, and land to land. Sir John Akeland of
Columb John was knighted by James I and served
his county both as High Sheriff and Knight of the
Shire. His great-nephew and heir, another Sir John,

held loyally by King Charles, and was created a

Baronet in March, 1645; and, the original grant of

the Baronetcy having been lost in the troubled times

which followed, a fresh patent was issued in 1677 giving
precedence over all Baronets created since 1644.

   The recipient of this latter grant was Sir Hugh
Acland, fifth Baronet -- for death had played havoc with

the succession, and it was reserved for a later genera-

tion to make length of days an accompaniment of the

  ' History of the Part of West Somerset                comprising the Parishes  of

Luccombe, Selworthy, &^c.

                                                     B
2 HENRY ACLAND

family honours. The seventh Baronet, Sir Thomas,
by his marriage with the heiress of the Dykes of
Tetton, brought that name on to the family tree, and
their descendants have ever since --with comparatively
few exceptions, of whom the subject of this memoir
forms one --received Dyke as a baptismal name.

   Though careful marriages and provident tenants for
life had made the Acland property one of the finest in
the West, the members of the house do not seem to

have played a very prominent part in the national
history outside the boundaries of their native county.

Sir John Acland, the member for Devon mentioned
above, who purchased the manor of Columb John in

Broad Clyst, near Exeter, is honoured among the
Benefactors of Exeter College, Oxford, for his munifi-
cent contributions to the fabric and revenues. The

first Baronet is described by Clarendon as standing
among the gentry of Devon, at a critical moment of the

civil war, almost alone in his adherence to the Royal
cause. Another John Acland, who flourished at the
close of the eighteenth century and held the family
living of Broad Clyst, was the author of certain some-
what crude pamphlets dealing with the question of

pauperism.

   But a more interesting personage is that John Dyke
Acland who sat in 1770 in the House of Commons for
the Cornish borough of Caliington and was one of the
most uncompromising opponents of any measure of
conciliation with the American colonies. King George

appears to have thought his pretensions to employment
on military service somewhat too exorbitant, though
praising him as * a spirited young man,' Acland, whose
'spirits' had involved him in a serious Parliamentary
encounter with Charles Fox, as well as in numerous
private quarrels, was not to be baulked. He obtained

a majority in the 20th Foot, accompanied the ill-
starred Burgoyne to North America, played a gallant

part in the assault on Ticonderoga and again in the
     THE ACLANDS OF COLUMB JOHN 3

combats in the wilderness which preceded the capitula-

tion of Saratoga. On both occasions he was severely
wounded and each time he was nursed by his heroic
wife, Lady Harriet, the daughter of Stephen, Earl of
Ilchester. Burgoyne himself has told the story of her
escape from a burning tent, and of her long vigil
through the autumn night, in an open boat on the
Hudson, waiting till the sentry could be induced to
admit her into Gates's lines, where lay her husband,

wounded and a prisoner.
   Major Acland did not long survive his recovery from

wounds and captivity. He returned to England in

1778, fought a duel on Brampton Down, and, though
he escaped without a scratch, contracted a chill which

proved fatal in the October of that year. His father,
Sir Thomas, the seventh Baronet, survived him, and
on the death of the latter in 1785, the title passed to
Major Acland's eldest son. Sir John Dyke, who died
in infancy in the same year. On his decease the
Baronetcy reverted to Major Acland's brother, Thomas
Dyke, who thus became the ninth Baronet. His
enjoyment of the estates and dignity was not for long.
 He died in 1794, leaving behind him by his union
with Henrietta Ann, daughter of Sir Richard Hoare,
a large family of sons and daughters, the eldest of
whom, another Thomas Dyke, born on March 29, 1787,
succeeded to the Baronetcy at the age of seven.

    The life of this latter extended far into the suc-

ceeding century, and when he died, on July 22, 1871,
 at the patriarchal age of eighty-four he had been Sir
 Thomas Acland of Columb John for a period of

 seventy-seven years. So prolonged a tenure of rank
 and wealth and influence could not fail to leave its

 mark on a character in which hereditary disposition and
 predilections were strongly stamped. ' Men, women,
 and Aclands' was a West Country summary of the

 varieties of the human species, and the old * Sir
 Thomas ' was the quintessence of Aclandism, if the

                                                      B2
4 HENRY ACLAND

word may be coined. Accustomed from his earliest

years to exact and receive implicit obedience, the awe

which his presence inspired was tempered by a genial

kindness of manner which extended to all who were

brought into contact with him, whether equals or
dependents. His manners have been described as
'regal in their measured graciousness and polish.* It

was obvious that he had the habit of one used to

deference and expecting                    'but young people felt,'
                it
                              a
                                      it,
wrote one who knew him when herself child, not so
                                                                               a
                                                                                      a

                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                   '
much fear of him as sense of being kept in order

which was never lost, the rather that his own children

evidently felt  even more than others did.' His

conversation/ adds the same authority, 'was in itselfa
   liberal education, ranging over wide extent of

subjects, filled with large experience of men and
                   a

things, lighted up with an unequalled play of fancy,

and, above all, keeping the listener almost unconsciously

in that high and pure atmosphere of an elevated mind

in which all things are seen on the upper sides.'

   Mr. Gladstone was wont to describe Sir Thomas

Acland as the finest gentleman in the West of
a
                                      *
                                                                            '
                                                        a
England.' Lord Houghton bore testimony to his

'delightful social bearing' and coupled him with Sir

Robert Inglis as possessing                                                    combination of gaiety

of temperament and earnestness of purpose which gave

   peculiar charm to their public and private life.' In

December, 1890, Sir Henry Acland sent to the aged                                                                     a
Sir Harry Verney, his father's lifelong friend,

replica of the statue which, thirty years before, had

been erected to Sir Thomas at Northern-hay, one of

the public walks of Exeter, as tribute of affectionate
                             '
                                 :

                                    a
respect for private worth and public integrity.' He

received the following answer

   You have sent me very precious Birthday gift, my deara
Acland, for never cease recollecting your dear honoured
Father, as supplying the example of what country gentlemanI

                                                                               a
THE ACLANDS OF COLUMB JOHN 5

in England may be, how much happiness and enjoyment he

may diffuse around him, how he may encourage the right and

discourage and oppose and very often worst the wrong. . . .
I have told
             the sort of man your Father was, how joyous

with his friends, what a centre of humorous, cheerful talk

at the Club, in the Tea Room at the House of Commons,

and what an earnestly religious man at the same time.

    Great breadth of sympathy, an intense interest in

philanthropic work, a high-minded independence in

public life, and a widely diffused benevolence were the
distinguishing features of his character. The feeling
that an Acland could do no wrong might manifest
itself in curious little ways, but it was held in check by
that consciousness of the overriding presence of God's
law which was with him daily and hourly. His

impetuous temperament and unceasing volubility never

detracted from the natural high breeding which came
of long descent and careful training. Reared in a
somewhat narrow school of religious thought, his

position in society and in Parliament carried him into
contact with every variety of practice and profession,

and saved him from that rigid exclusiveness which was
the failing of so many excellent folk among his con-

temporaries and in his own immediate circle. Queen
Elizabeth was wont to say of the gentry of Devon that
they * were all born courtiers with a becoming con-

fidence,' and Sir Thomas Acland would have answered

to the description and won her heart.
   The boy Baronet was sent to Harrow at an early age,

and thence to Christ Church, where Cyril Jackson,
greatest of Deans, was in the zenith of his rule. Sir

Thomas graduated in 1808, his name was borne on the
books of ' the House ' till his death, and at the Com-
memoration of 1831 he received the compliment of an

Honorary D.C.L. degree. On April 7, 1808, when just
twenty-one, he married Lydia Elizabeth, the only
daughter of Mr. Henry Hoare of Mitcham Grove. It
was a marriage of pure affection, for the two had
6 HENRY ACLAND

been betrothed to one another long before it was
deemed prudent for them to marry, and it remained
an ideal union till severed by the death of Lady Acland

in 1856.
   Mitcham was the chosen meeting ground of a group

of active philanthropists of whom Wilberforce and
Henry Thornton were, perhaps, the most prominent.
Mr. Hoare was himself one of the merchant princes who
used to be quoted to illustrate the right use and enjoy-
ment of an ample fortune. His house was ever open
both to those whose merits would have been a passport
to any society and to others who had httle but mis-
fortune or poverty to commend them. The tone of
conversation was largely affected by the strong religious
views entertained by host and guests alike, while the
approaching fulfilment of the prophecies of Daniel and
St. John gave constant occupation to those learned in
forecasting times and seasons ^.

    Bishop Jebb and his friend Alexander Knox were
among the most honoured and constant members of the
circle. The latter was one of those who belonged to
the Evangelical school in the Church but who saw the
need of a deeper theology, of a return to primitive
antiquity, and of a widening of religious sympathies.
As an Irishman and a former secretary to Lord
 Castlereagh he had formed strong views on all Irish
 questions, and when Catholic Emancipation rent the
 Tory party asunder, his influence over Sir Thomas
 Acland was a main factor in separating the latter from
 so many of his political allies and in inducing him to
 support the bill. His defection was much deplored

    ^ It is not recorded whether Granville Sharpe was at these
 parties, though it is unlikely that so distinguished a member of
 the Clapham school was a stranger to Mitcham. The memorable
 interview in which he expounded to Charles Fox, by the aid of
 the Little Horn of Daniel, the future policy of Napoleon and the
 Czar is related in inimitable language by Sir James Stephen in
  his Essays on Ecclesiastical Biography (1875 edition, p. 544).
     THE ACLANDS OF COLUMB JOHN 7

among his friends. A lady, whose memory of Sir

Thomas is still vivid at a very advanced age, connects
her childish introduction to him with the arrival, in a
room where she happened to be alone, of a gentleman
who displayed his visiting card and said : ' There now,

I suppose you are taught to think me a very dangerous
man because I think that to give a man a share in a

house is not the way to make him burn it down.'

   Indeed Sir Thomas Acland's political career was a
chequered one. Returned for Devon County as a Tory
in October, 1814, he attached himself to the school of

Canning, but all his life claimed the liberty to act as an

independent member. In 1818 he lost his seat to Lord

Ebrington, and though returned again in 1820, 1826,
and 1830, his championship of Catholic Emancipation,
of the repeal of the Test Acts, and of the abolition of
slavery caused much discontent among his Tory con-
stituents. He was in favour of Parliamentary Reform,
but voted for General Gascoyne's amendment which
wrecked the first Reform Bill. This vote cost him
dear, and he did not enter the Reformed House of
Commons till 1837, when he was returned as Con-
servative member for North Devon. Thenceforward

he sat without a contest until his final retirement from

Parliamentary life in 1859.
   Though his intimate associates were principally

among those whose views were congenial to his own,
and especially among the members of what was called
the 'religious party,' he clung to his acquaintances,

however divergent their opinions might be. With
Scott and Southey, Miss Hannah More and Miss

Edgeworth, he maintained an uninterrupted alliance.

Nor would he ever consent to abandon his early friend-

ship with those whom fate had carried into another camp.
   In his Christ Church days he had been a member of

a dining club which was continued in London after its
members had gone down from the University. In 1813
this Christ Church club was made the nucleus of an
8 HENRY ACLAND

institution 'adapted to the tastes of good society and
destined to unite its members round the same dinner-
table without reference to their pohtical opinions during
each session of Parhament^' Sir Thomas Acland
and Sir Robert IngHs-- member for Oxford University
and the model of an old-fashioned High Tory--were

with Mr. J. W. Fazackerly the practical founders of the

reunion which, from its habit of dining every Wednes-
day while Parliament was sitting at Grillion's Hotel in
Albemarle Street, received the name of ' Grillion's.'

Among its original members were Stratford Canning,
Reginald Heber, and Gaily Knight, and down to the
present day it has attracted the most distinguished
names in every branch of English public Hfe. Sir
Thomas Acland's catholicity of thought and action, his
comprehension, and enjoyment of difference of opinion
made him a peculiarly acceptable member of the club.

A silver reproduction of the statue erected to him at

Exeter is among its treasures, and Lord Houghton has
recorded an instance of his readiness and bonhomie

which has become historical.

One Wednesday afternoon in the House of Commons

the battle had raged with more than Parliamentary

warmth over a section in an Irish bill introduced by
Lord Morpeth which had by common consent been

alluded to as 'the amended clause.' The protagonist

on the opposition side had been Lord Stanley, the
Rupert of debate ; ' Grillion's ' had already sat down to

dinner when he entered, late and hurried, and without

a word took the only unoccupied chair, which, as fate

would have  was next to Lord Morpeth, the fellow
'

                       it,
                                                                      a
                                                                                          i,
member with whom half an hour before he had been

exchanging bitter personalities. There was an awkward
hush, when Sir Thomas Acland, rising from his seat at
the head of the table, pointed to
                                   dish of dressed

lobster and called out, 'Waiter, take that to Lord
Stanley and Lord Morpeth. Lord Stanley, Lord

Lane Poole's Life of Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, vol. p. 124.
      THE ACLANDS OF COLUMB JOHN 9

 Morpeth, the amended claws/ and the cloud passed
away in Homeric laughter.

    Sir Thomas Acland was blessed with a numerous
family. His eldest son, another Thomas Dyke, was

destined to an even longer life than his father, for he

attained his ninetieth year, dying on May 29, 1898. Of

* Tom Acland ' there will be constant mention in the

course of this narrative, and his memory is still green
with a number of those who shared the interests and
pursuits of a singularly versatile career. His success

in public life was hardly commensurate either with his
great abilities or with the promise of his opening years.

A double First at Oxford and an All Souls Fellowship

were the prelude to his entrance into the House of

Commons in early manhood, but his vote for the repeal
of the Corn Laws cost him his seat and entailed a

seclusion from Parliament for almost a generation

(1846-1865). Failing to achieve distinction in politics
he flung himself into other paths. He became a
pioneer of scientific agriculture and sanitation, and of
what used to be called Social Science. He was among
the originators of the Oxford Local Examinations, of
University Extension, of the Training Colleges for
teachers in elementary schools. Long before the Act
of 1871 he had got a clearer insight into the problems
besetting primary and secondary education than many
of our foremost educationalists have yet attained to.
He enjoyed the lifelong friendship of Mr. Gladstone,

whom he followed with unwavering fidelity, and his

Parliamentary career closed in the great crash of July,
1886. It was said of him by a relative, * Tom thinks so
fast that none of us can keep up with him,' but he will

always appear in these pages as the most warm-hearted
of brothers and the truest of friends.

   Arthur, the second son, who succeeded in middle life

to the estates of Dr. Troyte and assumed that name
under his will, possessed all the Acland versatility. As
a draughtsman, he was the equal of professional archi-
lo HENRY ACLAND

tects, and he could carry out a building contract as if he
had been brought up to the trade ^. He was a musical
composer of no small skill, and his Liturgia Domestica
and Daily Steps were once favourite manuals of family
devotion. He was profoundly attracted by the Oxford

Movement, and went far with its leaders; and after
his death, at the age of forty-four, his eldest brother
could write of him to Mr. Gladstone : * He has been
a wonderful instance of Christian love, and united sub-

jective and ecclesiastical religion in such intimate fusion
as few have done since the early days of which you

spoke to me at Hawarden.'
   The next in succession were Charles Baldwin, who

died at sea, a lieutenant in the Royal Navy; and Henry
Wentworth, the subject of this memoir. Peter Leopold,
the fifth son, took Holy Orders, became in due time
Vicar of Broad Clyst and Prebendary of Exeter, and
died in 1899. The sixth, John Barton, who still survives,
emigrated to New Zealand, became the owner of a great
sheep-run and member of the Legislative Assembly,
and has built to himself a new Holnicote beyond the

seas. A seventh son, Dudley Reginald, died when a

schoolboy.
    There were only two daughters of the marriage.

Lydia, the eldest, who came between Tom and Arthur,
was attacked when in the bloom of a singularly attractive
girlhood by an insidious complaint which made her life
a long martyrdom, ceasing only with her death in 1858.
Agnes, the younger of the two, was destined to a different
lot: she became the wife of Arthur Mills, for many
years member for Exeter ; and her happy and peaceful
existence was only terminated in 1895.

    The mother of this group of girls and boys was

    ' When open competition was invited for a design for the
erection of the Hardy Monument at Bridport, the drawing which
 he sent in anonymously was chosen by the judges ; and he sub-
sequently erected the monument himself without the intervention
of a contractor.
    THE ACLANDS OF COLUMB JOHN ii

herself no ordinary figure. We have seen what were
the surroundings of the home at Mitcham, which she

left at so early an age to become the mistress at
Killerton, the stately Devonshire seat of the Aclands.
Carefully educated after the old-fashioned manner, and

fitted to take her part in any society, she possessed the
* grand manner' in much the same degree as her husband,

though her reserved and quiet nature presented a com-
plete contrast to his vivacity and unceasing flow of
conversation and anecdote. The strong influence which

she exerted over him during the whole course of
their married life was never claimed or exercised in

public; and his chivalrous tenderness was only
matched by the wifely deference which she never

failed to pay him.
   Though brought up in practically the same theological

school as her husband, Lady Acland's opinions on many
subjects were stricter and narrower. In particular, she
held the strong views as to amusements and society in
general which were the characteristics of the Clapham
sect. In her eyes to allow young people to dance or
to see a play was a sinful compliance with the world ;
and time spent on secular literature, so far as it was not
necessary to education or to the pursuit of a professional
career, seemed a sinful misapplication of the talents
entrusted to us. Mental cultivation was essential to

a man's success in life, but she recognized no such
necessity in a woman. ' What should she want to read

beyond her Bible?' was Lady Acland's comment
during a discussion as to the choice of books for a

young woman condemned by prolonged ill-health to
hours of seclusion and solitude.

   Her husband's station as a territorial magnate, a

politician, and a prominent figure in society, compelled
her to associate with and accept as guests many persons
of both sexes with whom she had little in common,

and whom in some cases she must have regarded with
strong disapproval. But her intimate friends were
12 HENRY ACLAND

strictly limited to those who agreed with her on the all-
important matters. Such a standpoint is apt to intro-
duce into the training of children a sternness of method
and a rigid enforcement of the doctrine of rewards and
punishments with which the present generation is
unfamihar. The abiding tribute to Lady Acland as
a mother is to be found in the affection and reverence
with which her sons and daughters regarded her to the
last hour of her life. When, a few years before his

own death, Sir Henry Acland was shown some collected
reminiscences of his parents -- to which the present
writer is largely indebted for the substance of the pre-
ceding pages --he wrote : ' It just gives a faint sketch,
an idea of what my father's children owe to the Paradise

in which there was nothing but one's own nature to
dim the scene or check the teaching.'
                 CHAPTER II

EARLY DAYS-- HARROW-- CHRIST CHURCH

                                         1815-1837

   Henry Wentworth Acland was born at Killerton,
on August 23, 1815. When created a Baronet in 1890,
he was described in the patent, under the direction of
Sir Albert Woods, as ' Dyke Acland,' but the additional

appellation was not conferred upon him at his baptism ;
and in the case of his sons -- all of whom bear the name
of ' Dyke '-- it is in each instance a Christian name received

at the font. Sir Henry to his dying day never used any
initials but H. W. A., and it is possible that he con-
sidered the * Dyke ' to be part and parcel of his heritage,

to which he could lay claim or not, as he pleased ^.
   He was, as we have seen, the fourth son and fifth

child of his parents. The early sayings and doings of
the younger members of a large family are seldom
chronicled with the care which is devoted to those of
the firstborn, and there does not appear to have been
anything very remarkable about the childhood of Henry
Acland. There is a letter from his mother to * My dear
little Henry,' dated September, 1820, which mentions the
fact that he was not then able to write to her, or old
enough to learn : ' Had you been able, I should have
thought you a very inattentive and thoughtless boy
for not doing so,' As all the words, however, are

   ^ The name of Wentworth was a compliment to a certain
Mr. William Wentworth under whose will the manor of Selworthy,
together with an estate in Cornwall, had devolved upon Sir Thomas
Acland, the seventh Baronet : the choice lay between that name
and ' Hofer,' in remembrance of the gallant leader of the Tyrolese
rising, for whom Sir Thomas had conceived an unbounded enthu-
siasm.
14  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

laboriously printed, we may conclude that the recipient
was already able to read. And he must have begun
serious studies at a fairly early age; for there is pre-

served a letter in large, childish characters, emerging
from between half-erased pencil Hnes, *Ad Thomam

Acland Militem,' which runs, *0 carissime pater, videas
multos felices annos et ameris ab omnibus liberis tuis
et praecipue a tuo obediente et amante filio Henrico
Wentworth Acland 30 Martii 1822/

   Many years later, Ruskin wrote of Henry Acland:
* He quietly showed me the manner of life of English
youth of good sense, good family, and enlarged educa-
tion.' And, though the words refer to the time when
they were undergraduates together at Christ Church,

they fitly describe the atmosphere in which the young

Aclands were steeped from childhood. Education was
not neglected, though the instruments of instruction

may have been somewhat old-fashioned ; but the free
breezy intercourse of brothers and sisters, the careful
watchfulness of highly cultivated parents, and all those

little pleasures which make life in the country a Paradise

to children, were the forces that moulded the various

members of that happy household into what they after-
wards became. Whether at ' beautiful Killerton, with

its mighty trap rocks, forest scenery, wild ponies and

red deer,' or at Holnicote\ the much-beloved holiday

   ^ The old thatched house at Holnicote was burnt down in
August, 1851. This is how Acland describes the surrounding
country in a letter to his affianced wife : ' Our happy valley is one
which, lying on the north coast of Somersetshire, opens towards
the west upon the Bristol Channel. It is about three miles in
length, and the breadth of the beach about two and a half. The

north side is protected from the sea by a range of hills from
Minehead to Hurlstone Point, very steep and sometimes pre-
cipitous towards the sea, clothed with heath and pasture at the

top and seaward, but covered towards the valley with turf on the

top, furze on the brow, and plantations in the middle region. The
lower parts merge into the meadows and arable ground of the valley.

The height of North Hill is from 800 to 1,200 feet. A lower range
1 837]               EARLY DAYS                        15

home on the borders of Exmoor, there was everything

which the heart of boyhood could desire. All the

little industries which are essential to the management

of an estate, the forge, the smithy, the carpenter's shop,
were utilized as part of the practical training which the

young Aclands underwent from childhood. Many years
afterwards, in a pamphlet ^ dedicated ' to my Father, who
taught me both to work and play,' Henry recalled the
value of the habits thus acquired : * I never look but
with reverence on the features of an aged carpenter, now

fourscore, with whom, encouraged by the family laws of
my father's house, I used to work in my boyhood.' To
these early lessons must be attributed much of that

manual dexterity and neatness which he was afterwards

to display, alike in his physiological preparations and in
the contrivance of ingenious book-shelves and cabinets

for the Radcliffe Library.
   Life at Killerton and Holnicote was diversified by

visits to Sir Thomas Acland's house in Pall Mall, and
to Mr. Hoare at Mitcham. It was not an age which

encouraged * coddling,' and boys, whatever their station

or prospects, had to rough it in a way to which the
present generation are little accustomed -- a system
which seems to have resulted in the survival of the

fittest, for there must have been many who broke down
by the way. From Exeter or Minehead to London was
a far cry, but in their schooldays the young Aclands

were wont to accomplish the journey under the con-
ditions that are immortalized in the account of Tom
Brown's first coach-ride to Rugby. There were no

runs across towards Dunkerry on the south to shut in the valley

from the land. Dunkerry is nearly 1,700 feet, and has at its foot
the parish of Luccombe with a Perpendicular church. Two deep

valleys run up into  Horner and Sweeteray; these have
^

                                       it,
                                                                                                                       a
beautiful mountain stream rushing over stones and rocks, steep

sides covered with old forest trees. Dunkerry merges into the
wild heights of Exmoor. Blackgame abound, but are less plentiful

than formerly.'

Health, Work, and Play. 1856.
i6  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

 rugs or indulgences of that sort, and the guard would
 often have to lift the little fellows down from the box

 because their legs were numb with cold.

    Sir Thomas Acland had his own ideas of combining
fortitude with obedience. On one occasion two or

three of the boys, including Henry, were accompanying
their parents to London in the family travelling-carriage.
At the last stage from the metropolis a halt had been
called, and when Sir Thomas came to the door of

the inn to resume the journey he found the rumble in
the temporary occupation of his offspring. Whether

such a proceeding was actually forbidden or merely

discouraged does not appear, but the parental action
was prompt. * Hullo, boys, who asked you to get in

there ? ' They scrambled out, and he added, ' As you
don't care for the inside of the carriage you had better
walk ' : and the unlucky lads had to finish the rest of

the way on foot.

   It is also related how, one winter evening at Killer-
ton, Sir Thomas wanted a message carried to a house
distant some three or four miles away. It was a pouring

wet night, blowing a hurricane, and there was no servant
available -- tradition adds that the weather was too bad

to send any of them out. The matter was urgent, and
Henry and his brother Arthur, both young boys, under-

took the errand. On their return they found their father
nursing a brew of raspberry vinegar or some such

soothing compound to warm them before going to bed.
Suddenly a thought struck him : ' Which of you boys
remembered to shut the gate at the end of the drive ? '
There was a guilty silence, back went the posset on

to the hob, and, drenched as they were, the two started
off again through wind and rain for the gate, which stood

at least a mile away from the house.
   Yet * those hardy days flew cheerily,* and left nothing

behind but a flood of happy memories. Writing from
Holnicote on Christmas Day, 1845, Henry Acland gives
a glimpse of the life of his boyhood :
i837]  EARLY DAYS  17

   I awoke this morning not much before sunrise. There
was the same view I had seen from childhood, out of the

same windows; the bed-cover the same, the same shabby

furniture, the same rickety table and dull looking-glass ; and

before long I heard the distant chords of the same voices

that, joining in with the rude bass of the parish clerk, sang
carols in the cold morning. It was dark indeed, and all was
just as I had known it. It was Arthur's room when I was

a boy, for many years mine. When he was there I shared

with Baldwin the next one. But Baldwin is in heaven
enjoying his Carol of Redemption, and my youngest brother

has succeeded to his little possessions. Some things here
are changed. None of us are what we were. The fiddle
is older and more mellow. The singers are more gruff.

The evergreen is darker green. My father more bright,
more cheerful, further removed from the death of his

children, nearer heaven.

   And the writer adds a touch characteristic of the
simple life which the member for North Devon led
among his own people :

   I have just come down from our little church to the

Parsonage, where we always lunch. Roast beef (the under
side), plum-pudding, and table ale. The parson is old and

infirm, a mild scholar; calls every one of us 'Sir,' whom
he has known from babyhood upwards. When we are at

Holnicote he comes to service, sleeps and breakfasts, and

then goes about the parish. But he seldom does much
now. When he does he gives pennies to the bo3^s without
looking at them. They walk behind him and pick them out

of his turned-back hand. It is like feeding little sparrows.'

   Henry Acland began his school career in May, 1824,
at an establishment kept by Mr. Roberts at Mitcham,
which was transferred during the last few months
of his time to Brighton. Mr. Roberts is described as
* gentlemanly, but extremely severe '; and Dr. Pusey, who
had been his pupil in an earlier generation, gives some

instances of his Draconian disciphne^ A large mass

                               ^ Life of Pusey, vol. i, p. 9.

                                                             C
i8           HENRY ACLAND              [1815-

of letters are preserved relating to those distant days,
some of them formal and decorous documents written

evidently under the master's eye, others mere scrawls
redolent of the playground. Now it is an announcement

of the approaching holidays, now a request for money
to join in a birthday gift to Mr. Roberts. * I have
observed ever since I have been under Mr. R.'s care

that whenever any boy has left his school they were

always sent by their parents a handsome present to
give to Mr. R., and they always give one on his birth-
day.' In one letter there is a naive apology, which
schoolboys will appreciate, for addressing Lady Acland
as * Mother ' instead of * Mamma' : ' Excuse my saying

Mother, for one of the boys was looking over.'
   In another addressed to his brother Baldwin, by this

time a midshipman stationed off the Cape of Good Hope,
the writer records with too evident satisfaction the mis-
fortunes of a relative at Eton who had been flogged
twice in one day and been turned down from the Re-

move, and in consequence is duly rebuked for telling

tales. In a letter to his sister Lydia there is a business-

like passage, rather at variance with the unmethodical

habits that were characteristic of him in later life. He

had apparently asked his younger brother Leopold to

make some purchases for him, and had been met with the

request for the money, for he replies that Miss Hill,
his sister's governess, has £1 155. 6d. of his, and encloses
*a draft to Miss Hill, if you will please to give it her.'

    July 21, 1827. Miss Hill & Co.

Henry Acland would be obliged to Miss Hill to pay to

Leopold Acland the sum of seven shillings and sixpence to

buy certain articles with for myself.

    75. 6d.  Your humble servant,
                             Henry Acland.

   Writing to his mother after the school had removed

to Brighton he relates how, while walking up and down
on the Brunswick Terrace, describing to one of the
i837]  EARLY DAYS  ig

masters ' with all possible emphasis the beauties of the
hermitage and rock at Killerton, the poplar house at
Allerford, and Hurlstone Point,' he had run over and

knocked into the road an eighteen-quart milkpail, filled
with new milk, and had had to pay ten shillings for it.

* I am,' he adds, ' really I think the most unfortunate
of boys; I am completely agt'tatus fa fis.'

   The whole correspondence speaks to a hearty and
unrestrained freedom of intercourse, not only between
brothers and sisters but between parents and son, which
reflects the bright side of a somewhat strict bringing-

up. If there is not any very great indication of devotion

to study, there are signs of a happy, healthy disposition,
full of life and spirits, and with no disinclination to
mischief. Of this latter propensity an illustration was
to be given which narrowly failed of ending in a domestic

tragedy.
   The latter part of the summer holidays of 1827 were

spent by the boys at Holnicote, and during the temporary

absence of Sir Thomas and Lady Acland at Killerton they
were placed under the charge of Capt. the Hon. Matthew
Fortescue, R. N., who was married to their grand-
mother, the widow of the ninth Baronet. It need hardly

be said that gunpowder was strictly forbidden to youths
of their ages; but Arthur and Henry Acland both

possessed inquiring minds, and the unfortunate idea
occurred to them of exploding a train of that combustible
to see if it would frighten the horse of the old steward,
Mr. Birmingham. The train was duly fired, but, as has

befallen on many a graver field, the mine did not at once

ignite. Henry was dispatched by his brother to try and

discover what was wrong, and, as he arrived on the
spot, the gunpowder went off and enveloped him in
a cloud of smoke. When it cleared away the young
engineer was not only hoist with his own petard, but
so disfigured that for the moment the old maidservant
who rushed out on the scene could not tell which of the

boys was the sufferer, and it was not until the victim

                                               c2
20                   HENRY ACLAND              [1815-

was being put to bed that it was discovered that his
right foot was even more severely injured than his face.

   The horror and distress of Sir Thomas and Lady

Acland were divided between the injury inflicted on
their son and the disobedience which had caused and
the following letter worth quoting at length as an
illustration of the tone which Sir Thomas could adopt

towards his children when they had deserved reproof:
                             is
                                                                                 it,

My dearest Henry,

    The half-finished letter that mentioned to you in my
       a

        I
                     I

                           II
                                                ;
                                       I
                                                             I
last am sorry to say that must now begin again, and
it
am sorry too that have kept you waiting so long for our
    I
opinion on the fearful business in which you have been so

largely both an actor and a sufferer but have not always

my time at my command. Now as to your fault, for such

has been, and great one too, do not mean to reproach

or reprove you; first because we are really exceedingly

grieved for all your sufferings, and secondly because in these

sufferings you have received an ample punishment. You

perhaps may have thought too ample for the offence but
                             it

                                                  I
                                                          I

                                                                                              ;
that would be very wrong, because in the first place am sure

you have far more reason to thank God for sparing you as

much as He has than to be impatient under what has befallen

you. For indeed but for His mercy, which hope you see

and acknowledge most gratefully, you might have been blown

into the air or lost your eyes, and never recovered entirely.

Besides which, whatever measure either of comfort or of

privation we receive from our Maker ought to be sufficient

for us, who have nothing and are nothing of ourselves.

 Shall receive good at the hand of the Lord and shall
not receive evil?' says the Scripture.
It '                                           is
      if
        I                                                 I

                          it
                                           it

                                       I
    But another truth you are, think, able to understand,

and you use rightly, may be of some service to you.

    often pleases God that the mere natural consequences

of any bad or careless action should become its punishment.

Many and many times He preserves us from them, but not

always, and at length when He leaves us to ourselves just

to take the consequences of our conduct, the case generally

as irretrievable as  it      awful. Now in this case of yours you
                         is
i837]                               EARLY DAYS                                    21

knew that we forbid our children of your age, or near the
                                                                                  it,
use of gunpowder; you knew your grandfather to be very
particular about it; and you knew further that you were                                if

specially in honour to be on your behaviour with him during

our absence. Now you were fully aware that should you

offend against those rules, you would deserve some punish-

ment, that you should be detected you would probably
            if

experience  it     but suspect you were not aware one of the
                                 I
                ;

reasons why we enforce such rules and punish the breach

of them  is  that we know by our bitter experience that,

instead of our detecting and punishing you, you should be

left to suffer the natural consequences of your own conduct,

those consequences might be                      far heavier and more
                                                 a
tremendous punishment than any we should inflict. In it,

fact our rules and our punishments are always intended to

prevent possible not only misconduct but its awful con-if
                I
sequences. You have had pretty good experience of this.

If you are wise you will profit by not only with respect

to gunpowder -- do not expect you will get into that scrape
again -- but with respect to all the injunctions of your parents

or others who are kind enough to warn or instruct you,

seeing that they are certainly intended for your good, to

preserve you from some harm, the natural consequences of

disobedience. This natural consequence,                   repeat,                 God's
                                                          if I
own appointment, and most just one, since He has given
it                                                             a

  if                                                             if a

                                          a                                   is
us reason and laws and revelations to enable us to avoid

we choose. And this truth goes much further than

perhaps yet occurs to you.                   It  holds good with respect to

all the commands of our heavenly still more even than

of our earthly parents, and affects all our happiness not

only here but hereafter. The consequence of wicked life,

of many bad actions, certainly will be eternal miser}-.
God gives us His laws to obey here, and often punishes us

for disobedience but only in great mercy to prevent that
       if
                              ;
awful consequence which must otherwise happen in another

world not in this. If we are wise too we attend to His

first gracious warnings or lighter punishments, and by His

mercy we shall be saved from worse but not, we choose
                                                 ;

to go on perversely our own way and that hard one, He
will surely at last leave us to ourselves, and as surely we
22  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

shall fall into the necessary consequences of our own courses,

whether it please God to interfere with a special punishment

or not.

   In the case of your gunpowder no human power could be
of any avail. The thing was done past recall in an instant ;
you have suffered enough, I know. I am sorry, very sorry
for it ; but I could not prevent it. Had you not done what

you knew to be wrong it would not have happened ; but you
yielded to the temptation, you thought it would be of no great

consequence ; but you were mistaken, and you see the result,

and God be thanked it was no worse. Suppose you had been

blinded for life ! you could hardly tell whether you were or

not. A less quantity of powder might have blinded you, a

much larger certainly would. Oh, my dear Henry, you

have very much to be thankful for to God, who mercifully

remembered you when you forgot Him yourself You have
had one very awful escape --you cannot expect another. Be

thankful then and wise enough to be obedient and to have

some command over yourself in any other temptation you
may meet with. You owe a life to God so to conduct
yourself that you may really deserve it. It is a good thing
to 'remember your Creator in the days of your youth,'

   Now I have sent you a long sermon, it is that such a
lesson may not be thrown away. You see I have not
expressed displeasure. I have given you the advice of
experience and affection, of a father and a friend ; and I
give it so much now because I cannot think you so callous
as not to be warmly open to the impression. I sincerely

hope that in future you will cause but little more pain either
 to us or to yourself.

    One word more and I have done. You owe one atone-

 ment to your Grandfather ^

  ' This letter is a sample qf the prolixity which characterizes the
Acland correspondence. The gift of terse and concise statement,
even if possessed, was seldom exercised on paper. Allowance
must be made for the habits of a time when 'a letter was a letter,'

but it cannot honestly be said that their value is quite in propor-
tion to their length. Out of an enormous mass of Sir Thomas
Acland's letters which I have had before me this is one of the
few which is legible from beginning to end. His impetuous dis-
1837]  HARROW  23

    Here the letter breaks off, but one is inclined to hope

 that Captain Fortescue may have deemed that the bodily

suffering to which the little boy had been subjected was
atonement enough in itself. He was lame for many

months, and a considerable period elapsed before he was

able to leave his bed or have the bandages removed

from his eyes. To this must be added a good deal

of unnecessary torture at the hands of the local practi-
tioner who was called in to minister to the culprit. The

first time that he was taken for a drive, they passed
a cottage whose window bore a notice * Mangling done

Here,' which prompted him to ask if it meant that the
house belonged to a doctor. It was some time, however,

before he was allowed to feel that his transgression had

been fully pardoned at home ; and there is still preserved

more than one pathetic letter to his parents, imploring
their forgiveness.

   In September, 1828, he was sent to Harrow, and he
remained there till Easter, 1832. It was the exception
rather than the rule in the society which met under
Mr. Hoare's roof at Mitcham to expose their sons to the
risks of a public-school education. Only a few years
earlier William Wilberforce had written to his son

Samuel :

   I know that this is often one of the consequences of a
youth's being at a great school, especially if his parents are

pious, that he has one set of principles and ways of going

position made him dispense with sand or blotting-paper, and the
sheet was turned over, wet or dry. It is related that when his

daughter, Mrs. Mills, brought to him in despair a long letter she
had received just after her marriage, not a word of which she

could decipher, he refused somewhat testily to assist her, saying
that it was his business to write and hers to read. The task,
indeed, was beyond his powers. On the other hand Dean Liddell,
when returning in 1890 to Miss Acland a letter from one of

Sir Henry's sons, remarks : ' There has been a gradual declension
of handwriting from your grandfather through your father to your

brother.'
24  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

on in all respects at school and another at home. But it is
chiefly for the very purpose of providing against this double

system that pious parents do not like to send their children

to public schools^.

   But Sir Thomas Acland was himself an old Harrovian-.
His eldest son had crowned his career at Harrow by
winning the Peel Medal and becoming head of the
school. His second son, Arthur, had passed three years
there before going to Christ Church ; and Sir Thomas
saw no reason why Henry should not follow in the

family footsteps.
   Dr. George Butler was then at the close of his head

mastership, and he was succeeded in the following year
by Longley, destined to become in succession Bishop
of Ripon and Durham, Archbishop of York and Canter-
bury. It must be owned that William Wilberforce and
other like-minded parents had only too good a cause for

their apprehensions, and that hfe at a public school
in the first quarter of the last century, and for many

years later, was a fiery ordeal from which it was not
granted to all comers to emerge unscathed. For the
special causes which were operating at this time to the
disadvantage of Harrow, and for an excellent description
of the school and its alumni during Henry Acland's resi-

dence there, the reader may be referred to the recently
published work of Mr. Howson and Mr. Warne ^.

    * Life of Bishop Wilberforce, vol. i, p. i6. Without any disrespect
to the great bishop's memory it is difficult not to feel that a public-
 school education, with all its admitted faults, might have saved him
 from more than one error in judgement in after life.

    " He had been first at a preparatory school at Neasden, where
 Reginald Heber was among the pupils. The master appeared
 one morning with a little ruddy black-headed boy of eight, and
 informed the school 'that they had several lords for companions,

 but never before an eight-year-old baronet in his own right ; and

 he trusted that they had benefited enough by his tuition to
 appreciate the privileges which a kind Providence now accorded
 them.' Then he went away, and the assembly signified their

 appreciation in the manner customary among schoolboys.
    " Harrow School, chapters ix and x.
1837]  HARROW  25

   He was placed under the care of the Rev. W. W.

Phelps, teacher of the Under Shell, who had recently

opened a small boarding-house at Byron House, whence
in 1831 he migrated to 'The Park,' where the number
of his pupils largely increased. He is described as
a good disciphnarian, ' a man of calm, equable, and

perhaps rather cold temperament ; not wanting in firm-

ness, but never roused to anything like anger.' He

appears to have been a judicious and kindly house-
master, and perfectly frank with Sir Thomas as to the
flaws which he detected in his pupil's demeanour. He

had to lament in his earliest letter that 'the transition

from the restraints of Mr. Roberts to the latitude neces-

sarily given to boys at a public school is the occasion of
irregularity quite unusual to a new-comer . . . you will
have learnt from him that he and Mr. Butler cannot
agree on the subject of his repetition lessons. Your son

finds more than ordinary difficulty in getting lessons by

heart ; but he appears to have persuaded himself that
this is the case with him to an extent which Mr. Butler

cannot recognize consistently with a due observance
of discipline.'

   It cannot be said that his Harrow days were a part of

Henry Acland's career on which he ever looked back
with much satisfaction or happiness. He rose to be

\a monitor and attained to the privilege of making

a speech on his last speech-day (June i, 183 1) ; but his

health while ' on the Hill ' was never robust and was the

cause of his leaving at the age of seventeen, and thus
losing that last year at school which to so many boys

  ^ An entry in the Harrow Register describes him as being in

the Football XI and 'winner of the Champion Racquet.' Mr.

C. M. Dauglish, one of the editors, assures me that the entry

is an obvious error, since neither the Football XI nor the Racquet

Championship were in existence till many years afterwards. But
Acland was a keen player of racquets at school, and of fives at

Oxford, and he seems to have carried off some trophy or other

at the former game.
26  HENRY ACLAND                             [1815-

compensates for all they have gone through in their

apprenticeship.

   It is plain that he by no means succeeded in giving

complete satisfaction to those placed in authority over
him, though he won and retained the affection of
Dr. Longley and of his house-master, Mr. Phelps. On

the other hand, there are allusions in his letters to the

' blackguardism of Harrow,' and   there are  extant in a
boyish hand some ' Lines written
                                  by H ...   A ... d on

going to Harrow and being Surprised at the Habits of

the Boys there, 1828 a.d.'

    See truth and love aloof in sky,
    Above mankind suspended high ;
    See truth from youthful blossoms blown
    And cast afar in shores unknown.

    Oh ! what hours of bliss I spent
    In childish innocence content,
    When sin afar from my young mind
    Was driven like the fleeting wind.

    But now, alas, in this sad realm

    I strive to mourn and mourn in vain;
    I fain would act the Christian's part

    And banish Satan from my heart.

    But I like other sinners tread

    The path by small temptations spread,
    Nor trust in Him who died to save
    Repentant mortals from the grave.

   Among his contemporaries at Harrow who attained

distinction in after years may be mentioned the younger

Benjamin Brodie, the Hon. 'Bob' Grimston, Lord

Bessborough, the brothers Karslake (John and Edward),
Lord Mark Kerr, Prothero, afterwards Canon of

Westminster, George Butler, afterwards Canon of
Winchester, and Hugh, afterwards the third Earl

Fortescue ; but his chief ally was Hugh Pearson,
subsequently Canon of Windsor, and the intimate and
'

   1837]  HARROW  27

   trusted friend of Dean Stanley. The tone of their
   letters, after Acland had left Harrow, shows that the
   two were in the habit of opening their hearts to one
   another on subjects more serious than those which
   generally occupy the correspondence of boys of eighteen.
   And there is a passage in one of them which suggests
   that Acland, if he had completed his full course at
   Harrow, might have looked back with more pleasure
   to his schooldays. He had apparently suggested to
   his friend the advisability of joining him at his tutor's
   in Cornwall for a year, to which Pearson replies :

      There was a time when I would have jumped at the idea
   to get away from hated Harrow, but I cannot say this now.
   I think going anywhere now and leaving Harrow would be

   foolishness downright, losing almost the only time while we
   are at school of gaining any good, viz. while under the dear

   Doctor \ And besides, I cannot get over the idea that not

   any private tutor, however good, would make up the place

   of the public school. Competition is everything. I could
   not, I really could not, get courage to leave Harrow now
   prematurely. I have such an affection for the place. I have

   fairly come to the conclusion that it is worth passing three

   years or more coming through the lower school, if you did

   not learn anything, to have your last year or so with Longley.

      Acland's health, which had been more or less unsatis-
   factory for some time, broke down completely at the

   beginning of 1832. The state of his heart gave cause

   for much anxiety, and anything like over-excitement was

   pronounced to be highly pernicious. It was decided to
   remove him from Harrow at Easter, and for the moment
   he was sent to the house of his uncle and aunt, Mr. and
   Mrs. Henry Hoare, at Morden, that he might continue
   a course of bleeding and blistering at the hands of his
   doctor, Mr. John Greenwood. While there he wrote

   a letter to his elder sister which serves to show the

   fascination already cast upon him by the profession
   which he was afterwards to adopt.

                   ^ Pearson became head of the school in 1834.
28                 HENRY ACLAND                                                  [1815-

My dearest Lydia,

      You know my old desire of being a physician, which
Papa did not approve of when I mentioned it once at Easter

in town. And when he said it would never suit me I gave up

all thoughts of it. Now the army was my only choice and I,
thinking that I might do well in mentioned it. But now
                  iIt, I I
                              if

                                      it
                                               it,

                                                  II
that have fallen in the way of my old love cannot give                           it it
a
up. shall try again, and Papa does not now think me
    I II
steady enough why will settle on the army.            should much

prefer the other, and as think can do nobody any harm to

know something of        have been prosecuting the study with

vigour, and, under the kind assistance of my old acquaintance,
Mr. Greenwood, am likely hope to know something of

before leave Morden. If ever were to become physician,
          I
                          I
                            I
                                      I

                                                                              a
little foundation would be useful, and have begun regular

notes, &c., and now know something about the osteology part
of anatomy or the science of bones.

    Mr. Greenwood gives me all the help that he can, and beg
I
                  a
                               a

                                          It I
                                                                     is I
you not to say anything about him, since all such things are

done in sort of honour not to mention them unless you study,

suppose, at regular school,          am sure nothing more

calculated than this study to show to us the frail nature and

composition of man, and the great and incomprehensible

wisdom of God in His works.          would delight anybody to

see the structure, the complicated mechanism of the bones,

and how much more wonderful must be the blood-vessels

dispersed in every part of the body. To give you an idea of

the structure of the hand, for instance, there are twenty-seven

different bones in each hand, and there one bone in the
                  it
                      is

                          I

                                         it
                                                        is

                                                                        a
head united by all the tendons and fastenings like those of

the largest bone in the body, not bigger than small pin's

head.

    Excuse me this, but  cannot help mentioning it; the

pleasure take in   useful, as keeps me sedentary, which
       I

is  the principal thing for me now.

   In September he was sent as private pupil to the
Rev, Thomas Fisher, with whom his eldest brother
had read for while before proceeding to Oxford.
Mr, Fisher himself was Cambridge man, friend of
          a
                              a

                                               a
                                                                     a
1837]            HARROW                                                               29

Whewell and Sedgwick and Airy, in love of science
before his time, and a devoted admirer of Wordsworth,

an enthusiasm which he communicated to his pupils ^
He was then incumbent of Roche in Cornwall, a mining
parish in the midst of high moors, situated between
Bodmin and Truro, one of the wildest spots in that
wild country. He was subsequently presented by
Sir Thomas Acland to the living of Luccombe, near
Holnicote, and he remained to the end of his days in
intimate relations with the whole family. Years after-
wards Henry Acland wrote of him : * His mind is full
of the largest piety, his heart of the warmest and

most comprehensive love, and his head stored with
the most varied knowledge. There is no one whose

conversation upon the whole is so agreeable to me, for

I love the man. And though he is not very accurate,

nor very learned, 3'et he is full of suggestive and
expanding thoughts.'

   In such an environment it might have been thought

that life would have passed smoothly and happily, but
his letters, during the earlier part, at any rate, of his

time with Mr. Fisher, leave a contrary impression. He

failed to conceive a liking for his fellow pupils ^, and

a domestic upheaval in the village society, in which he

sided chivalrously but rather indiscreetly with those
who were suffering for no fault of their own, did not

tend to smooth matters. Although his health improved
rapidly on the Cornish moorlands, and there was a
cessation of the morbid activity of the heart, the illness
had left traces which were to be felt for many a long

^ 'The first volume I bought out of my Httle allowance,' wrote

Acland, ' was Wordsworth's Poems. From them I drew the sense

of the beautiful and spiritual in Nature such as till then no poet

had ever sung.'
2 In a letter to the Right Hon. W. H. Smith, Acland says, ' I

remember my   aot lCdhrtiusttomr,aswhthoerseaiadppheearweads/oo«vre. rdo"nWe eblly,"  his two
pupils. Then                                                                          said he

to a critical friend, "you see the two combined against me, and

now the four fight together and I look on." '
30  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

day. Bodily weakness had reacted on his spirits. His

most intimate letters betray profound dissatisfaction

with himself, with his surroundings, with his past. He

seems to have felt, and probably not without justice,
that he had by no means made the best use of his time
at Harrow, and that his parents had only too good
grounds for doubting the stability of his character and
the strength of his good resolutions. Some years

afterwards he wrote to his father :

                                                                  Aug. 31, 1845.

   The early part of my life was wasted in frivolous indo-
lence ; my conscience was dimmed ; the perception of ' the
beauty of holiness ' and the simple love of what is excellent

after its kind was I trust, though dormant, not extinguished.
I remember, I cannot write without tears, with what intense
bitterness I have prayed, ' Make me a clean heart, O God,
renew a right spirit within me, cast me not away from Thy
presence,' and I believe my prayers have not been un-

answered.

   It was in this frame of mind that the barrier of reserve

which so often keeps elder and younger brothers apart
was first broken down, and that Henry Acland entered
upon those close terms of intimacy with his brother
Tom which were to endure until death parted them.

It was to him that he first opened his heart on all the

various matters which made life seem so gloomy, and
it was from him that he received words of wise and

affectionate counsel, mingled on occasion with out-

spoken reproof. Nor was the obligation all on one
side, for in his diary for 1835 Thomas Acland makes
this entry: 'Thank God for the comfort which Henry

is to me.'

   It is clear that even in these days the width of
sympathy and universality of interest which were such
a strong feature in Henry Acland's character, had begun

to manifest themselves to an extent which caused more

uneasiness than approval among those about him, and
1837]  HARROW                                       31

the words which Mr. Fisher addressed to him some

years later were founded on observation made during
this time of pupilage :

   I trust you are taking definite means to limit and distribute

your own exertions, and that this may be affected really to
make the best of your time both for body and mind. And you
may in the meanwhile be cultivating the habit of method and
system which are so essential to the skilful economy of all our

resources ^

   In illustration of his activities outside the strictly
educational sphere I may quote the following extract
from a letter to Miss Hill, the old Killerton governess :

   I have had here more sick people to doctor than half the

regular practitioners, all the parish having the influenza, and

I have an admirable character, all my patients except one
having fared very well. It is as much almost as I can do to

make up the medicine for all and see half every day.

   Moreover the charm of romantic scenery and the
fascination of natural history had laid firm hold of him.
Sir John Herschel's Introduction to Natural Philosophy
and Mary Somerville's Connection of the Physical
Sciences successively came into his hands. Though
in 1834 he prepared the diagrams for Dr. Buckland's
Edinburgh address to the British Association ^, it does

not appear how far he had as yet begun to find pleasure
in brush or pencil. But in March, 1833, he writes

that he has abandoned the flute, and is learning the
violoncello to assist in swelhng the harmony in the
church at Perran, whither Mr. Fisher had now migrated.

* I bought one for fifteen shillings, and play occasionally

to the organ already.'

   Moreover Sir Thomas Acland had lost his seat in

Parliament, and was now enjoying freedom from some

   ^ Dean Liddell was wont to put it more tersely,  ' Acland, your
universality will be your ruin.'
'*
     Life of Dean Bitckland, p. 31.
32  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

of the more pressing cares of public life. The purchase
of a yacht was one consequence of his leisure, and in
the spring of 1834 he became the owner of a beautiful
schooner of 160 tons, built at Dartmouth for the fruit
trade, and christened by him The Lady of St. Kilda in
honour of his wife, who was almost the first English
lady to land on that island -- a feat accomplished by her

in a small open boat as far back as 1810.
   The yacht contained accommodation not only for

Lady Acland and her daughters, but for four of the
boys as well. The details were worked out by Baldwin,

now a lieutenant in the King's Navy, who gives his
brother an amusing description of the difficulties of

a naval architect vis-a-vis with so masterful a figure as

Sir Thomas Acland.

   I'm sending you the plan on the other side ; I would by no

means have you to expect that you will find it as it is there
marked out, as ' the authorities ' are coming down here on

Thursday next to look at the vessel, and will in all probability,
for the sake of keeping up the character of the family, make

various alterations.

   And there follows a somewhat irreverent allusion to

his father, who 'would make the most absurd pro-

positions, and then out came the pencil, compasses, and

I Euclid, Prop. 47, and my poor unfortunate plan

became so lined and interlined and crossed over that

neither himself, much less me, could make out anything
of it.'

   The regime on the yacht was stern, but on board of

her many delightful excursions were made up the coast
of Scotland and in the Mediterranean, and the friend-
ship between Henry and Captain Fairfax Moresby, R. N,,

who was Sir Thomas's trusted right hand on all matters

nautical, had an important bearing on the career of the
former. Nor was this his first essay as a yachtsman.
In the previous summer he had accompanied his father
in a cruise on 77?^ Vansittart up St. George's Channel
to Dublin, and then down again, across the Bay of Biscay,
t837]                CHRIST CHURCH                                       33

touching at numerous towns on the coast of France

and Northern Spain. A business-Hke ' Log of the

proceedings of 77?^ Vansittart cutter' is extant in his

handwriting, and affords proof that he had already

mastered more than the elements of navigation. If

his progress in the studies that were requisite for
a University degree was somewhat desultory, a share
of the blame must attach to the father who allotted so
considerable a slice of the year to these enjoyable dis-
tractions. In the autumn of 1834 he matriculated at
Christ Church, and went into residence the following

term.

   From veryearlyyears Henry Acland had been destined
for the medical profession, in circumstances of which

he has left a record :

   During the great Congress of Vienna in 18 14, when the

first Napoleon was in Elba, my father was in that famous

\capital He became acquainted with an Austrian noble who

gave his life as a physician to the care of the poor. He
resolved that, if it might be in the Providence of things, a
child of his should be a physician. In due time the lot fell
on me while still a boy at school. Sir Benjamin Brodie was
consulted as to my education, * Send the boy to Oxford,' said
he in my presence, ' and let him pay there no attention to his
future profession, but do as he would if going into Parliament
like you. When he has taken his degree send him to me,
and I will tell him what next.' In those days we boys were

obedient, or fancied we were. Those then were my instructions
from a chief in Israel

         happened not long after that my father bought at
country sale in Minehead copy of Humboldt's Personal
' It                         '^.

                                       a
                                                                                                  a

    On the occasion of this visit Sir Thomas made the acquain-

tance of von Hammer the historian and of the Archduke John,

and he was present at the funeral of the Prince de Ligne.

      In the Life^ of Dean     Buc"klSainrdB(epn. ja3m1),inA,"clsaanidd  gives another
glimpse of the     interview.                                            my father, "
                             a

                                       '

                                                              is

                                                                                                                ?

                                                                              I
                                                                                     I
want to make this boy physician -- what  to be done " was

frightened out of my wits as the eagle-eyed man looked at me

from head to foot.'
34  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

Narrattve in seven volumes. He gave it to the supposed
scientific boy of the family. The book made a profound
impression on me. It filled me with a certain vague love of

external nature and a yearning to see it in every form and in

every clime. The following summer I was fishing on a hot
day in a small stream in Devonshire, and I proceeded to
' clean ' a small trout on the bank. I was amazed to see the
heart still beating. To kill the fish, as I thought, I then

removed from the body all the viscera ; there the heart still

lay beating in the palm of my hand. I was awestruck by the

phenomenon and sat watching on the bank till all pulsation
had ceased. Half a century after, as witness before the
Royal Commission on Vivisection, I remarked that men

were divided into two kinds, those who had watched the

pulsation of a living heart and those who had not.

   The letter to his sister Lydia quoted on an earlier

page, seems to indicate that the boy's profession was not

quite irrevocably fixed at this date, and that Sir Thomas

entertained serious misgivings whether his son was
qualified either by health or strength of character and

purpose for so arduous and absorbing a vocation as

that of medicine. It is proof however of the bent of his
own mind, and there are other traces of the enthusiasm

for anatomy and physiology which was first aroused by
his experience with the fish's heart. One of his fags
at Harrow used to tell how he won his favour by
procuring him portions of the skeleton of a cat, and

there is a suggestive passage in a letter addressed to him
by Mr. John Greenwood, written just before he left

school : ' As to your quack friend, a stuffed lizard or an
adder in spirits I should consider a fair equivalent for

his prepared arm.'

   In any event Sir Benjamin Brodie's strict injunction

to enter on no professional studies, direct or indirect,
was equally applicable. There had been some hesitation
as to which of the two Universities would be better

adapted for a youth of Henry's temperament and
aspirations, and there is a letter from Thomas Acland
1837]  CHRIST CHURCH                  35

to his brother, written at Vienna in June, 1834, which
puts the contrast between Oxford and Cambridge in
a hght which loyal Cantabs would hardly be prepared

to accept.

   Cambridge offers some means of physical information, and
more decidedly active intellectual development, Oxford is
more gentlemanlike -- I mean in the high moral sense of the
word, not about eating with knives and so on -- secondly,
more sober-minded, less liability to run away with false
excitement ; on the other hand, less stimulus to exertion.
Thirdly, a more chastening and healthy discipline of the whole
man, moral and intellectual.

   It must be remembered that Thomas Acland was
fresh from a brilliant double First in the Oxford schools,
and that his means of estimating the inner life of the
sister University are unknown. Nor can the events
of the next few years be said to bear out his judgement
as to the immunity of Oxford from excitement; but

Oxford was decided upon, and there could be no
hesitation in the choice of a college. Sir Thomas's
name was still on the books of ' the House ' as a
gentleman commoner and D.C.L, His eldest son had

only forsaken it for a Fellowship at All Souls, and

Arthur Acland had recently taken his degree from the
same seat of learning,

   Christ Church was then under the rule of Dean Gais-
ford, and a glance at the University Calendar of that

date shows how firm a hold it retained upon the best
blood and the bearers of the most historic names in the

kingdom. Twoyearslater, in January, 1837, John Ruskin
was entered there as a gentleman commoner, and his

impressions and recollections live for us in a well-

known passage ^ :

   On the whole, of important places and services for the
Christian souls of England, the choir of Christ Church was

       ^ Praeterita, vol. i, p, 350.
                        D2
36       HENRY ACLAND                                                                                                                  [1815-

at that epoch of English history virtually the navel and seat

of life. There remained in it the traditions of Saxon, Norman,
Elizabethan, religion unbroken -- the memory of loyalty, the

reality of learning; and in nominal obedience at least, and in

the heart of them with true docility, stood every morning to

be animated for the highest duties owed to their country the

noblest of English youth. The greater number of the peers

...of England, and, as a rule, the best of her squirealty, passed
necessarily through Christ Church.  In this choir, written

so closely and consecutively with indisputable British history,

met every morning a congregation representing the best of
what Britain had become -- orderly as the crew of a man of

war, in the goodly ship of their temple. Every man in his

place, according to his rank, age, and learning; every man

of sense or heart there recognizing that he was fulfilling or

being prepared to fulfil the gravest duties required of English-

men. A well-educated foreigner admitted to that morning

service might have learned and judged more quickly and

justly what the country had, been and still had power to be

than by months of stay in court or city. There, in his stall,

sat the greatest divine of England ; under his commandant

niche, her greatest scholar ; among her tutors, the present
Dean Liddell, and a man of curious intellectual power and

simple virtue, Osborne Gordon. The group of noblemen

gave, in the Marquis of Kildare, Earl of Desart, Earl of

Emlyn, and Francis Charteris, now Lord Wemyss, the

brightest types of high race and active power. Henry Acland

and Charles Newton among the senior undergraduates, and I
among the freshmen, showed, if one had known elements
    It

                                                                                                                                    :

                                                                                           it,
of curious possibilities in coming days. None of us then

conscious of any need or chance of change, least of all the

stern captain, who with rounded brow and glittering dark eye,
led in his old thunderous Latin the responses of the morning

prayer.

        would be an exaggeration to say that the standard

among the Christ Church tutors w^as high Gaisford

discouraged the class-lists and thought lightly of any
distinction gained outside the walls of the House, But
in January, 1836, H. G. Liddell was appointed to fill
1837]           CHRIST CHURCH                                  37

a vacancy, and in the first batch of pupils assigned to
him was Henry Acland ^. It is hard to imagine a

greater contrast than that between the somewhat un-

pohshed country clergyman, with all his singularities
of dress and manner, from whose guardianship Acland
had just emerged, and the magnificent-looking young
tutor, elegant in his attire, and with reserve and dignity
written on every line of his countenance, the man whom
Ruskin declared to be ' one of the rarest types of nobly
preserved Englishmen.' No wonder that Acland was
somewhat alarmed at what he describes as * the splendid
appearance ' of Liddell, and his awe could hardly have

been diminished by an incident which is best narrated

in his own words :

   Shortly afterwards my father--a devoted lover of Christ
Church -- was in Oxford, and came with his son to call on the

boy's tutor. My father was a man of great power, body

and mind, and an earnest Churchman of that period, a

student and lover of Butler, Hooker, Jeremy Taylor, Milton,

Cowper, and Pope. I do not know why, but he spoke to

Liddell somewhat disparagingly of Wordsworth, as at that

date many did. I see now Liddell quietly walk to his

bookshelves, take down the Wordsworth, and, looking full
                                              '
at  my father,  say, ' Sir  Thomas,  listen      and he  read  in
                                             !

his clear fine voice the Ode to Immortality. My father,

with great appreciative heart and mind, said, ' Mr. Liddell,

I am grateful to you.*

   It required the possession of no common courage and

no common self-rehance for a young man of twenty-
five to deal thus faithfully with the head of the Aclands,
and from that hour dated the admiring devotion of

pupil to tutor, which was to last for sixty years and to
remain as absolute when the one was Dean of Christ

Church and the other Regius Professor of Medicine, as
in the old undergraduate days. How complete was the

    ^ Acland's first tutor had been the Rev. Augustus Short.
38  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

influence which Liddell was to exercise over Henry
Acland is expressed in the latter's own words to the
widow of his friend : * I will write down as well as
I can from memory some of the circumstances which
made me feel more and more every year when I was
with him that I was in the presence of a person who
seemed to me almost infallible in every subject on which

he gave any opinion at all.'
   The desultory nature of his previous education, the

state of his health, and the prolonged interruption to
his studies consequent thereon caused Acland's mode
of life while in statu pupillari to differ somewhat from
that of the conventional undergraduate. * That I have

been extravagant here,' he writes to his father in February,

1837, ' I must most freely confess-- arising, I fear, from

a wish on my part to couple the expensive hook habits
of a reading man with the qualifications of a gayer man,

added to which out of Oxford I have never been saving.'
And he must have pondered more than once on the
valedictory words of Hobbs, his brother's valet. This
worthy had been originally Tom Acland's scout at Christ
Church, and as he packed Henry's portmanteau he
remarked severely, * We got a double First ; a Third is

good enough for you.'

   His friends were drawn from all quarters. He was

intimate with the reading men at the House ; and such
contemporaries of his eldest brother -- survivors of a
brilliant academical epoch-- as retained their connexion
with the University were prompt in making his acquain-

tance. At the same time he was a member of Loder's,
that exclusive Christ Church club which still has its

rooms in the High Street, and continues the wines and

 Sunday breakfasts to which there is not unfrequent
 allusion in his diaries and correspondence. He rode

 regularly ; and there are letters preserved in his corre-
 spondence which show that he kept on terms with the
 ' larkiest ' members of the sporting set. Then, as ever,
 he possessed that peculiar secret of sympathy which
'

   1837]  CHRIST CHURCH  39

   made him a welcome companion in the most widely
   divergent circles.

      He did not read for Honours, but he contrived to get
   a good classical grounding, while he availed himself of
   the opportunity of attending the lectures of Professor

   Buckland.

      Your father --he wrote to Mrs. Gordon '-- got hold of
   me, being very friendly with mine ; assured me geology had

   nothing to do with medicine (in reference to Brodie's advice),

   and bade me attend his lectures. I can never forget my
   debut as his pupil. . . . He lectured on the cavern of Torquay,
   the now famous Kent's cavern. He paced like a Franciscan

   preacher up and down behind a long showcase, up two steps
   in a room in the old Clarendon. He had in his hand a huge
   hyena's skull. He suddenly dashed down the steps -- rushed,

   skull in hand, at the first undergraduate on the front bench--
   and shouted, ' What rules the world ? ' The youth, terrified,

   threw himself against the next back seat, and answered not a
   word. He rushed then on me, pointing the hyena full in my

   face -- 'What rules the world?' 'Haven't an idea,' I said.
   'The stomach, sir,' he cried (again mounting his rostrum),
   ' rules the world. The great ones eat the less, and the less

   the lesser still.*

      In after years, when it fell to his lot to influence the
   scientific studies of the University, Henry Acland never
   wavered in his belief that the old Oxford enforcement
   of the Humanities was the foundation without which

   natural science lost much of its efficacy both for practical
   purposes and as an educational instrument. Yet to a
   man of his wide range of interests and intense desire

   for knowledge in all its branches the extreme narrowness
   of the Oxford curriculum was intensely repugnant. He
   was repelled by the failure to recognize anything beyond
   the Greek and Latin books prescribed for the schools,
   and a moderate amount of mathematics; by the dis-
   couragement of self-culture ; and by the erection of the
   class-lists into a fetish to which all else must be sacrificed.

                            ^ Life of Dean Buckland, p. 31.
40  HENRY ACLAND                   [1815-

How strongly his feelings were moved by this idolatry

of the market-place comes out in a letter to his friend
Charles Courtenay written at the close of his first year :

   To think after a long discussion with almost our cleverest

acquaintance that he should say that no man should read but
to obtain a class, and laugh to scorn the idea 'that it might
be well for a man to read for his own improvement, in-

dependently of University Honours.' Were I convinced that
the benefit to be derived from the University was reduced
to so small a degree, or rather that the principles of our
collegiate education rested on so low a foundation, I would

ask my father to remove me to Edinburgh or whatever place

be the fittest to prosecute my medical studies.

   And to the impression produced upon those about
him by his earnest views Ruskin has borne a memorable

testimony ^ :

   To Dr. Buckland geology was only the pleasant occupation
of his own merry life. To Henry Acland physiology was
an entrusted gospel of which he was the solitary and first

preacher to the heathen ; and already in his undergraduate's
room in Canterbury he was designing -- a few years later in
his professional room in Tom Quad he was realizing -- the
introduction of physiological study which has made the

University what she has now become. Indeed that curious

point in Acland's character was its early completeness.
Already in those yet boyish days his judgement was unerring,
his aims determined, his powers developed ; and had he not,
as time went on, been bound to the routine of professional

work, and satisfied in the serenity, not to say arrested by
the interests of a beautiful home life-- it is no use thinking

or saying what he might have been : those who know him
best are most thankful that he is what he is.

   Acland's intimacy with Ruskin was a turning-point
in the lives of both. The former had been in residence

for a couple of years when the latter entered at Christ

Church. Mr. CoUingwood, in his biography of Ruskin,

    ^ Praeteriia, vol. i, p. 381.
1837]  CHRIST CHURCH  41

states that Acland's attention was directed one day to
the sight of a young undergraduate being ridden round
Tom Quad by some of the rowdier of the gentlemen
commoners, and that he interfered to protect the victim.
Another version represents that his indignation was
aroused by an attempt to make the boyish-looking fresh-
man tipsy at a wine-party ^ In any case the attraction
was immediate and irresistible. Let Ruskin himself

describe the friendship :

   Fortunately for me --beyond all words fortunately -- Henry
Acland, by about a year and a half my senior, chose me ;

saw what helpless possibilities were in me, and took me

affectionately in hand. His rooms next the gate on the
north side of Canterbury were within fifty yards of mine, and
became to me the only place where I was happy . . . and the

friendship between us was never changed but by deepening

to this day. I have above noticed the farther and incalculable

good it was to me that Acland took me up in my first and
foolishest days, and with pretty irony and loving insight --
or rather, sympathy with what was best, and blindness to
what was worst in me -- gave me the good of seeing a noble

young English life in its purity, sagacity, honour, reckless
daring and happy piety; its English pride shining prettily
through all, like a girl's in her beauty. . . . One day when
the Cherwell running deep over one of its most slippery

weirs, question arising between Acland and me whether it

was traversable, and I declaring it too positively to be
impassable, Acland instantly took off boot and sock, and
walked over and back. He ran no risk but of a sound
ducking, being, of course, a strong swimmer ; and I suppose

him wise enough not to have done it had there been real
danger. But he would certainly have run the margin fine,

and possessed in its quite highest, and, in a certain sense,
most laudable degree, the constitutional English serenity in
danger, which with the foolish of us degenerates into delight

   ^ Ruskin, it may be remembered, alludes to the surprise of the
guests on the occasion of his first ' wine,' both at the goodness of

the parental sherry and at his own capacity for imbibing it without
ill consequences.
42                   HENRY ACLAND                                           [1815-

in but with the wise, whether soldier or physician, the
basis of the most fortunate action and swiftest decision of
deliberate skill
      it,                                                                   it
                                                                              is
                  \

    There are other glimpses of Acland                              a       his under-
                                                                        in
graduate days. William Cotton, afterwards his brother-

in-law, and described by him as man to whose kind-
                                                         '

                                                           a

ness and sound learning, coupled with most cheerful

disposition, owe much,' alludes to him now and again
      is
in letters to his family circle, to which Acland had
already been introduced. At one time he sends homeof
               I
*a small sample of exquisite Minorca honey from
H. Acland,' the spoils of Mediterranean tour in Theit I I *

                                                  a
Lady St. Kilda. Again, in writing to his sister Sarah,

he mentions that young Acland considerably better,
                                                       I I a is
but not allowed to read, consequently learning the
                                                                    is

organ from Elvey, and has started piano in his own               a
rooms to practise on.' And in letter to the same

young lady he remarks that 'as was walking along

the London road passed Acland, who was walking

with Newman.         heard afterwards that the latter

remarked that        looked as                       if        had let my pocket-

handkerchief fall out of my pocket, and that was

running along to try and catch me up                                a

    The future cardinal was then at the height of his                  ^.'

influence, and like all the more thoughtful of his con-

temporaries Acland was deeply influenced by the Oxford

religious revival. Newman had been friend of his

eldest brother's. With Pusey he was acquainted

through family intimacy of long standing^. Charles

Marriot, whose father had been curate at Broad Clyst,

he knew well, and letter from him written during
Acland's exile from Oxford shows that the latter was
      '        i, '  is
                       a
"^ '  Praeterita, vol. p. 364.
      This last sentence possibly due to William Cotton's 'cheer-a is

ful disposition.' Newman           generally described as taking his

daily walk with set face, oblivious to all mundane happenings.
         a

^
     Lady Emily Pusey was Herbert of the Carnarvon family,
who were connected with the Aclands.
1837]  CHRIST CHURCH  43

\on friendly terms with most of the members of the

Oriel set
   But of all his undergraduate acquaintances the one

to whom he opened his heart most unrestrainedly,
and with whom his relations were most intimate and
sacred, was the Hon. Charles Courtenay, younger son
of the Earl of Devon, "knd in after years Canon of
Windsor and Chaplain to Queen Victoria. The friend-
ship which began at Oxford continued unbroken till the
death of Canon Courtenay in 1894 ; and the interchange
of hopes and fears and encouragement and sympathy
which for many years they carried on in weekly and
daily letters, forms a chronicle of manly Christian piety
and of friendship passing almost the love of women.

In the course of his first Long Vacation Acland was
invited to Powderham, the seat of the Earls of Devon,

and for the next few years it was a second home to
him. Harriett, Countess of Devon, was one of those

bright and beautiful characters which instinctively
attract the affection and confidence of young men.
Henry Acland had won his way to her heart by his
intense devotion to her son, his care for him in illness,

and his anxiety for his success in the examinations;
and, during the few years for which it was ordained

that their riendship should last, she was the recipient
of confidences and aspirations which he shrank from

imparting to his own nearest relations. Henry Acland

never quite got over the awe with which his mother

had inspired him from childhood, and when Lady

  ^ In this letter occurs the following passage : ' I am afraid
you will bring back lots of sacred playthings : pray take care.

One is more in danger of levity than of anything else, when
one sees much of religion (particularly if it be in a Christian form)
that one cannot approve. I hope, however, that you will come back

not the worse Catholic or the less serious for all that. If being

from home did nothing but teach one to pray for one's oiKiloi, it
would do much still towards forming a character capable of com-

munion with real things.'
44  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

Devon died in December, 1839, she left a blank in his
life which was never exactly filled.

   In his letters to her we find ghmpses of undergraduate

life in the days before athletics occupied their present

all-absorbing position :

   According to your recommendation, through the great

kindness of my eldest brother, I have the daily use of a horse,

which is a great comfort to me, both as enabling Charles and

myself to take our exercise together, and also as taking me to
a further distance from the cloudy air of Oxford than has
been my wont in the course of a walk.

   This day (May 30, 1837) I have been into collections, and

therefore all my college duties are over until next October.

I draw all my mornings, walk or ride all my afternoons \ and

am merry for half of my evenings, solitary and sulky the other
half. All engagements for next week are positively refused

by me, because I will have a thorough holiday from Oxford

affairs when Charles and your party come down. There is

to be a very good concert on Tuesday next at which everybody

is of course to be.

   And a final extract shows that Acland was already
engaged in those pursuits which were such a solace to
him in the future :

   I myself have had the rashness to go out sketching with

my tutor, who is now teaching me the fine arts ; and instead of

   ^ He had also his little boat on the river, and was a keen
oarsman, though he does not appear to have been under the
discipline of the college rowing-club. With some friends of his
own, including Charles Courtenay, he founded an aquatic fraternity
called 'The Lunatics.' In November, 1839, he wrote to his father:
' The Lunatic Society, of which I am president, held its meeting
last Wednesday. Now the lunatics are those who, being good
boatmen, at full moon make a long excursion so as to return to
Oxford by moonlight. It is necessary that they should be in good
condition, if in scrapes able to extricate themselves, and with some
nerve to pull about the bad places in the dark. The society
flourishes, and her members (which is her object) are in good
health.' The same letter contains an allusion -- horribile dictu--io
a town and gown ' rough,' videlicet row.
            1837]  CHRIST CHURCH        45

Greek and Latin I constantly take drawings to him to be looked

over and corrected. Some few fine days have been a very

great temptation to me, and I act the anomalous part which

a man who walks about in a cap and gown and carries a

campstool at the same time is obliged to play. But it is

better to be a little marvellous than a good deal unwell, and
drawing out of doors is the best and very sufficient amuse-

ment that I can have. I had a plan for beginning some
Greek play, but Mr. Liddell to-day advised me to abandon

and continue my lighter studies in painting.
is
         '
                '
                                                                                                            a it,
               No man was better qualified, by range of artistic
a           sympathies or technical skill, to direct the studies ofaa
            young enthusiast than Liddell, pronounced by Ruskinaa
        a ofto be the only man among the masters of my day who
            knew anything of art.' On their first walk together hea
            had taken his pupil up to Bagley Wood to listen to the
                                     a
            nightingales, and had set him down to gaze on the city
            from Turner's stile, while he discoursed on Turner and

            his false ideals.'

               The tone of the letter from which the last quotation
               taken shows that Acland's health was again causing
            him discomfort and apprehension. In the previous

            year {1836) he had suffered from violent pains in the
            head which had rendered him incapable of continued

            application to his studies, and were suggestive to his
            medical advisers of some dangerous irritation of the
            brain. Total cessation from work had been ordered,

            and he had been absent from Oxford all the summer
            term. His family were in the Mediterranean in The
            Lady St. Kilda, trip undertaken for the sake of his

            eldest sister, whose long and painful illness was now
            beginning. Sending on written account of his case
            from doctor, together with letter from the Dean of
            Christ Church, Acland started off from England in

               steam-packet, got on board King's ship at Gibraltar,
            and at Malta found message telling him to join the
            yacht, which he did at Messina, not little apprehensive
            of the manner in which the loss of the term would be
46  HENRY ACLAND  [1815-

regarded. During the summer, Syracuse, Agrigentum,
Minorca, and Lisbon were all visited ; and such a trip
ought to have provided the invalid with a stock of
health sufficient to carry him through the residue of his
Oxford career. This however was not the case ; he

was constantly unwell, and in June, 1837, a crisis was

reached.

   He had been spending a quiet term, riding and
sketching in the open air, and had been out 'of all
measure delighted by the success of Charles Courtenay

in the schools ^ when he was attacked by a succession
of violent headaches accompanied by intense nervous

irritability. A few months previously he had received

a disquieting opinion from Dr. Chambers, the most
eminent London physician of the day ; and he now
took refuge with his relatives the Hoares at Morden,
to be under the hands of Mr. Greenwood, who
had attended him when he broke down at Harrow.

A total cessation from all study was enjoined, since any

continued mental exertion was immediately followed
by a recurrence of pain and confusion in the head.

The only chance of recovery lay in keeping the body

employed and the mind idle.

   At this moment Captain Fairfax Moresby, the
intimate and deeply obliged friend of Sir Thomas, who

had made Henry Acland's acquaintance both on shore
and on The Lady of St. Kilda, proposed that he should
accompany him on board H.M.S. Pembroke, a seventy-

two-gun ship under orders for the Mediterranean, to

which he had recently been posted. This offer coin-
cided with Sir Benjamin Brodie's prescription of sea
air ; the requisite arrangements were hastily made with

   ^ He had been awarded a Fourth both in classics and mathe-

matics. The distinction may not seem a very remarkable one, but in
those days the mere fact of reading for Honours was something
out of the common, especially at Christ Church ; and a * Graduate
in Honours' was invested with the same halo of mysterious dis-
tinction that to the eyes of a former generation bedecked the
* Barrister-at-Law.'
1837]  CHRIST CHURCH  47

the Christ Church authorities, and preparations were
hurried on for a start in the first week of July. He
was in the midst of a family leave-taking when a letter
from the Admiralty was placed in his father's hands.
It announced that Baldwin Acland, then serving as
lieutenant in The Scout off the Bight of Benin, had
succumbed to tropical fever and been buried in the
island of Ascension.

   He was five-and-twenty (wrote Henry Acland to Lady
Devon) ; the most affectionate brother, the most dutiful son,

and if I venture to say so, the most sincere and upright

Christian of all our family ; and the more happy do we feel
about him because the integrity of his life was the more
valuable as he of necessity encountered the most temptations

and the fewest assistances.

   The bereavement was not allowed to interfere with
the plans for the voyage. He joined the Pembroke at

Plymouth on July 28; but she was short of her proper

crew by some seventy men, and before the anchor was
finally weighed Acland had to mourn another gap in

the family circle. His youngest brother Dudley, a
little boy of ten, had been for weeks past lying danger-
ously ill at Dorchester, and the end came suddenly on
July 31. Henry, who was spending a few days with
Mr. Fisher near Tavistock, only learned the news
accidentally from a Cornish newspaper. It was indeed
from a house of mourning that he started on his voyage

to the Mediterranean^.

   ^ An extract from a letter to Sir Thomas Acland by Mr. Fisher
gives a picture of Henry Acland at this date, and at the same
time throws a certain light on his worthy tutor : ' His health
has exhibited marks of that anomalous uncertainty which seems
to have been its prevailing character, and his spirits have under-

gone a corresponding fluctuation, yet upon the whole he has
been well and comfortable, and seemed particularly to enjoy
the quiet and sequestration which in the absence of pupils this
peaceful place affords. His mind is strongly determined to

thoughts and feelings which he beyond this visible diurnal sphere,
and I have within certain limits of matter and manner talked with
48 HENRY ACLAND

him upon these subjects. But I soon perceived that these materials

under his delicate and excitable circumstances require to be
handled carefully and skilfully. His whole moral position, under
which I should include the impressions of faith and piety, is very
pleasing and hopeful for the best purposes.' The general election

consequent upon the death of William IV was then in full pro-

gress. Sir Thomas was a candidate for North Devon, his eldest
son for West Somerset. They were both returned, Sir Thomas
unopposed ; but Henry Acland, steeped in gloom, writes of them
to Charles Courtenay as ' being called into public life against their
inclinations and judgement, and to the probable ruin of their
fortunes.'
               CHAPTER III

  THE PEMBROKE-- ATHENS, ROME, AND

       CONSTANTINOPLE-- ALL SOULS

                                         1837-1840

  Captain Fairfax Moresby, under whose care Acland

was destined to remain for the next eighteen months,
was one of the dwindhng band of survivors from the
French wars. Entering the navy in 1799, as a boy of
thirteen, he served through many of the most exciting
episodes in the great struggle with Napoleon. In the

Amazon frigate, under Sir William Parker, he joined in
the long chase to the West Indies, and he shared his
captain's ill-luck in being detached from the fleet on
the day of Trafalgar. He helped Cochrane to annoy
the armies of Macdonald and Suchet on the coast of
Catalonia. He was present at the battle of Maida, and,

armed with a musket which he had snatched from a

seaman, did good execution among the French. He

saw much varied service in the Archipelago, where the
extirpation of pirates, and of French privateersmen
fitted out in Turkish waters, involved many of those
dashing exploits which lend their savour to nautical
novels. In 1812 he was presented with a sword of
honour by the merchants of Malta, two years later he
received the Austrian Cross of Maria Theresa for his
services at the siege of Trieste, and by his own Govern-
ment he was made a C.B. and a post captain. As
senior officer at Mauritius he highly distinguished him-
 self in combating the attempted revival of the slave-
 trade, and he was continued on that station through the

intervention of Wilberforce. His health is said never
 to have fully recovered from the effects of the coast of
 tropical Africa; but as he survived till 1877 his con-

                                                  E
50                         HENRY ACLAND      [1837-

stitution must have been a remarkable one. He rose

to be Commander-in-Chief on the Pacific Station in

1849, to become a G.C.B. in 1854, and Admiral of the
Fleet in 1870. In 1874 the University of Oxford con-
ferred upon him an Honorary D.C.L. degree, and it

may be imagined with what pleasure Henry Acland

joined in this compliment to his old chief.

   In 1814 Moresby had married a Miss Fortescue, a
connexion of the Captain Fortescue who was the second

husband of the Dowager Lady Acland. During one of

those spells of compulsory idleness which are the fate of

senior officers in time of peace he had rented AUerford
House, near Holnicote, from Sir Thomas Acland, and the

latter had formed a warm attachment for the breezy
sailor. He became Sir Thomas's chief adviser in all

matters nautical, and was practically put in command

of The Vansittart, whose head quarters were in Porlock

Bay. The tale is still told how Sir Thomas and the

captain took the neighbouring clergy for a sail one

Saturday afternoon, how a gale blew away all the

canvas, and how at ten o'clock on Sunday morning

a set of unshaved, sea-sick, and belated clerics were

seen scampering on ponies over the Exmoor hills in

a desperate effort to catch up their congregations.

   It was one of Sir Thomas Acland's whims to have

always ready in the stables at Holnicote some famous

trotting colts, and he would, at a moment's notice, run

down to Moresby's house and drag him off for a ride

to Bude ' to see the Atlantic come in from which
                                         ^,'
                                              *

                                                     a

                                                                it
may be opined that Captain Moresby was not cavalier
of the school of Commodore Trunnion. Your grand-

father's cook,' writes the Rev. William Thornton of

North Bovey to one of the present generation, must
                                     I
have had lively experience of life.
                                                             it
                                                             a'
^                                        can see the old

                a
                        a
Baronet now with the bell ringing for dinner and man

      Bude was nearer sixty than fifty miles away, and was of
course necessary to get fresh horses on the route. Sir Thomas

Acland owned httle place there, Eflford Cottage.
1840] THE 'PEMBROKE'                           51

in the hall from Cloutsham to say that a stag was eating
his oats. Walter Halliday always said that he never

talked about less than three things at once !  Oats, deer,
dinner! he would see to the lot! ** Horses,    Moresby! "

and round came the trotting horses and away they

went. Lady Acland looking disconcerted, and old
Mrs. Fletcher in the hall wringing her hands and
shaking her head and saying, " Was there ever such
a man?" and then with deep conviction, "No, there
                           "  '
never  was  such  a  man
                          !

No wonder that Henry Acland wrote to Lady Devon,

' My captain is the most kind-hearted good creature that
ever was ; and, as I feel convinced that he would rather

have me than not, I know we shall pull together very

well' Indeed, to Moresby's unfaihng kindness, bon-

homie, and consideration for his charge, the latter's

correspondence bears perpetual testimony; while the

captain's own letters show that the disparity in years

was no bar to a complete understanding and strong

mutual friendship between himself and the young
Christ Church commoner.

   The Pembroke was an interesting vessel ; she had

gone through much service, and when peace came in
1814 was engaged in blockade duty off the port of
Toulon. One of the last shots fired in the war carried
away her wheel and killed two men on her deck. Acland

went on board her for the first time on July 31, 1837,

and wrote that he ' found a very comfortable little cabin,

about six feet by eight, having a large port-hole though

no gun in it. The ship is a very fine one, and the
officers, as far as I have seen of them, very agreeable.'

   Her sailing was retarded by want of the full com-
plement of seamen, and when the start was actually

made in September, a further delay was caused by the

necessity of touching at Cork and taking in suppHes.
Lisbon was reached on October i, and the next two

months were occupied in covering ground which his
Mediterranean trip of the former year had rendered

                                 E2
52  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

familiar. Gibraltar, Barcelona, Ceuta, Cartagena, Rosas

Bay, and Malta presented little novelty to him, though
the conditions of life as the captain's guest on board
a ' seventy-two ' were in sufficient contrast to those of his
former visit to these coasts. But as the winter wore
on the fleet made for the coast of Greece, rounded
Cape Matapan, and by the end of November was off
the Piraeus. The entrance to the Piraeus was character-

istic of the manners of seamen in an old ship-of-war;
for an Irishman having let go a rope without orders,

the boatswain threw his tarpaulin hat full in his face, and
shouted from the forecastle, ' Take that ! and,' pointing

towards the Acropolis, 'the next time I'll throw the
devil in your face, or some other heathen deity, now

we are among them.'
   The Eastern Question had entered upon one of its

stages of periodical activity : Mehemet All's successes
in Egypt, and the approaching certainty of open warfare
between his forces and those of the Porte, were occa-

sioning much searching of hearts. England, France,
and Russia, in a state of mutual distrust, were assem-

bling their fleets in Graeco-Turkish waters, with one

eye on the Dardanelles, and one on each other's move-
ments. Greece itself showed little sign of setthng down

under Bavarian rule, and there was every prospect that

the Pembroke's stay might be indefinitely prolonged.
Anxious to make the most of his time, and with the

approval of Moresby, who wished him to enjoy his
educational opportunities to the utmost, Acland resolved
to take up his quarters in Athens. He found a pleasant
unfurnished lodging, at a moderate price, in full sight
of the Acropolis, and within fifteen minutes' walk of
though outside the town. Thither he transported him-
self with his household goods, consisting of bed, chest,
coffee-pot, kettle, and lamp, and book-shelf; and there

he remained for about ten weeks, making occasional
excursions for change of air in one of the Pembroke's

boats, which the captain placed at his disposal.
    a

                                        '

                                                 it,
1840] THE 'PEMBROKE'                                         53

In this way he saw Salamis, but many of his excur-

sions were made independent!}^ of the protection of the
British flag. An adventurous trip to Corinth in a small

sailing-boat exposed him to some danger and more dis-

comfort, expecially as the Advent fast of the Greek

Church rendered it almost impossible to procure food

for love or money. The island of Euboea, the plains

of Eleusis, Delphi, Parnassus, and the cave of Tro-

phonius are only a few of the hallowed spots which

presented themselves to the eyes of a young man not

yet emancipated from Oxford studies, to whom the

Greek poets and historians were still among the stern

realities of life. A scrupulously kept diary and his

letters, especially those to Charles Courtenay, show

the enthusiasm evoked by such scenes in a mind as

artistic  as it was   observant     ^     but  travels  in  Greece
                                       ;

have now become too ordinary an incident of tourist

life to admit of quotation from these writings intended

for purely domestic consumption.

Exception, however, may be made for the description

of his daily round during this sojourn in a winter city :

' talking bad Greek by the hour ; making friends among

farmers, soldiers, and robbers ; living in the morning in

books, in the afternoon in mountains, in the evening in
                 '
books     again    ;  and  on  the  eve   of his  departure  he

writes :

  I have made nevertheless some use of my stay at Athens.

I have gained some strength, some health, some information,

much pleasure, little learning, a considerable insight into the
character of men, their objects and dispositions, high spirits,

an upright carriage, one friend, two female enemies (no !
dislikers?), a little modern Greek, twenty-three sketches,
profound admiration of Grecian and increased veneration for

Gothic architecture, some increased bachelor habits, a few

Whig principles, and have spent since July £98.

   ^ Yet one cannot refrain from noticing that, ' standing on Acro-
corinth's brow,' it is St. Paul, to the complete exclusion of Byron,

who colours his reflections.
54  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

   Indeed, for an invalid, Acland's time had been pretty

well occupied. His was a mind which in spite of all
doctors' injunctions could never be idle. Various note-

books and memoranda attest his struggles with modern
Greek and his careful measurements of classic monu-

ments. In Mr. W. D. Leves, who was engaged at Athens
under the auspices of the Bible Society, he found a most

hospitable friend and congenial companion. By him he
was put on the committee for settling the plans and esti-
mates of a Protestant church, the erection of which was
then in contemplation by the English residents. He

provided himself with the requisite materials, and, fresh
from the interest which had been excited in him by the
building of the chapel in the park at Killerton, he
prepared the design of the well-proportioned httle
building which is still standing to-day, though it was
unroofed by the great hurricane of 1852^. He succeeded,
moreover, in interesting his friends, and particularly his

father and brothers, in the undertaking^, and in obtaining

substantial contributions from them.

   Mr. Leves was the constant companion of his walks

and sketching expeditions, and on one occasion they
found themselves in the unsolicited society of three

Klephts, armed to the teeth, and notorious members
of one of those bands which then and for many years
afterwards infested the neighbourhood of Athens. The

brigands were for the nonce in the mildest mood ; there

   ^ It was this gale which levelled the centre one of the three
columns at the west of the Temple of Zeus Olympics.

  ^ Two years later Mr. Leves turned to him in the hope of ob-

taining donations in money and books for the struggling University
of Athens, and Acland made bold to appeal to the Dean of Christ
Church, from whom he received scant encouragement. ' I doubt
much,' wrote Dr. Gaisford, ' whether I can give you any assistance
in your project. In conjunction with some friends, in whose judge-
ment I much rely, I have always been unfriendly to such donations
from the University ; and indeed I am not certain that the books

which we print, excellent for ourselves, are at all suited to the

exigencies of Greece.'
1840]                   ATHENS         55

was no suggestion of captivity or ransom, they expressed
dislike of their lawless trade, assumed airs of penitence,
and one of them, who proved to be no less a celebrity
than Spiro Bibisi, the terror of the capital, was actually

persuaded to accompany the Englishmen as far as the
city walls in the hope of obtaining by their good offices
a pardon for his misdeeds. Here his heart failed him,

probably not without good cause, and he turned back ^.
Eighteen months later Mr. Leves narrated the sequel :

Bibisi and his party are under sentence of death. He is

the same desperate creature as ever. Thrice has he attempted
escape from his prison (an old Turkish bath) near the Temple
of the Winds -- once through the door and once by under-

mining the foundations. The first time he was caught as he

was getting through, the second he was betrayed, and the

next day in a fit of desperation he and one of his fellows
attempted to escape through the door -- Bibisi having with his
fist knocked down the soldier on guard -- and they both got
out into the street. His companion was dangerously wounded

by the bayonets of the soldiers on guard, and Bibisi, seeing

he had no chance of escape, quietly walked back of his own
...accord into prison.  I think the responsibility of having

induced him to follow us into town that evening, had he

listened to us, might have been painful and unpleasant, and

that it is as well we were spared it.

  A very sensible conclusion ; and, having in mind

Acland's impulsive disposition, it is not difficult to guess
with which of the two companions the idea of reclaiming

the ' chief of the sicarii ' originated. It is satisfactory
to know that Bibisi was not ' hanged after all,' and that

   ^ Mr. Horace Hart, the Controller of the Clarendon Press, in

some reminiscences which he has obligingly communicated to me,
recalls the incident : * One day after I had rendered some small
service to Sir Henry he sent me a drawing by himself to which
he had affixed the printed title and description, " Sketch from a
ravine of Hymettus by Henry Acland in 1837, in friendly company
of the dreaded brigand chief Spiro Bibisi and two of his men. The
sketch being finished, they escorted him to Athens after dark." *
56  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

Acland was the means of mitigating his sojourn in

prison.

   It should be added that he made full use of his time
at Athens in making acquaintance not only with the
British residential colony, but with the cosmopolitan
diplomatic society into which he was thrown. Though
the Palmerstonian regime was in full swing at the

Foreign Office, his experiences were not altogether
gratifying to his patriotism, and he writes bitterly of

   The utter contempt in which our nation is held by the
foreign courts ; the decrease of our naval power and the
overwhelming superiority of other nations in this our national
pride, give me some food for moping. To all here, perhaps
(where we are in contact with ambassadors of all the powers,
and hear matters fresh discussed), it appears that a national
blindness veils the eyes of our country, and that the economy

displayed, in conjunction with the few ships we have in the
Mediterranean, will of necessity in a short space of time be

our final ruin.

   From Athens the fleet went back to Malta early in
March, 1838. There was a tedious detention in quaran-
tine, and then came the tempting prospect of spending
Holy Week and Easter in Rome. The plan met with 1
the ready approbation of Captain Moresby and with the I
somewhat hesitating acquiescence of his father ; and

Acland quitted the Pembroke upon the tacit understand-
ing that he was to rejoin her in the summer if the doctors

refused to sanction a return to Oxford. At Rome he
found himself in the midst of friendly surroundings.
His eldest brother had been a resident for some months
in the spring of 1834, and Sir Thomas had spent the

preceding winter there with his wife and daughters, |
forming a warm friendship with Bunsen, then the Prus- '
sian Minister, and the hospitable centre of Protestant

society in the Eternal City^

   ^ Bunsen paid a visit to Killerton in the November of 1838, and
subsequently saw a great deal both of Sir Thomas Acland and his
eldest son in London. See his Life, vol. i, p. 500 et seq.
1840]  ROME  57

    Mr. Bunsen's house was to me as a home (wrote Acland
many years afterwards), and were I to relate all that I learned

there from him, from Lepsius, from Abeken and George

Richmond, I should have to tell some of the most interesting
and instructive incidents of my whole life. I studied, for

instance, the early Italian art to which Richmond's religious

and cultivated sense was devoted. I first learned the elements
of Egyptian hierogl3'phics, which Lepsius was beginning to

understand, from the obelisks and the few Egyptian remains
whose existence was then known. Mr. Severn, afterwards

consul in Rome, and a highly esteemed painter, was, with
them, to me kindness itself.

   These reminiscences must be taken to include a second
visit to Rome, which extended from the middle of January
to the middle of March in the following year. On the first

occasion he was incapacitated by ill-health from deriving
full enjoyment out of the place, though his diary is full
of entries in which the above-quoted names constantly

occur. His first lodging, 11 Trinita di Monte, had been
the reverse of cheerful -- ' a house overlooking the city ;
there I meditate half the day, musing away the time and
waiting for some artist or antiquarian --a note arrives,
saying they cannot come. It is solitary grandeur to live

in a home without even a servant and without many
friends outside.' From these quarters he was driven,
by a severe attack of rheumatism and a suspicion of
fever, to try the air outside Rome, and a pleasant

picnicking expedition to Tivoli in company with a band
of roving art students was the result. On his return he

took up his abode in a large house on the Capitoline

Hill just over the Tarpeian Rock, known as the Ospedale

Protestante.

   In close proximity on the Capitol stood the Palazzo

\CafifareUi where Bunsen had made his home for the

last twenty years, and where he was wont to gather

round him all the leading spirits in the intellectual life

  ^ A fine lithograph of the Palazzo Caffarelli is to be found at

p. 23 of the first volume of Bunsen's Lt/e.
58  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

of Rome. Of him it was aptly said that he was not
merely sent as minister of the King of Prussia to the
Papal Court, but as the representative of German learn-
ing to Roman antiquity. George Richmond was also
a visitor at Rome that winter with his family. He and

Acland were already acquainted, and in the previous

spring the latter had induced Charles Courtenay to give

him sittings for a portrait in coloured chalks. His
presence in Italy was due to a breakdown in health
consequent upon overwork -- a fact which evoked a
touching outburst from Acland to his bosom friend in

England.

   Richmond is here, he is a good man : he has suffered
precisely what I have, and thinks I do not overrate the

services which you did for me at Oxford . . . for no man can

tell without undergoing what I did, and no one can guess
what that was who has not had the same. With all the
affection which I believe I have for you, it is quite luke-

warmness to the feeling I had when I was ill, because then
I literally was in misery if you were absent an hour.

   Nor was Acland without justification for despondency.
He had just learnt the verdict of Dr. Chambers, com-

municated from home through Captain Moresby, that
he must not think of returning to Oxford for that year.
In deep dejection he wrote to Charles Courtenay :

   I do not feel sure that I shall be fit to go to Oxford until

long, long after it is too late for me to think of the medical
profession, nor of this do I believe I shall ever stand the
excitement. It is quite enough that I have been told this in
confidence by four men, of whom three are Chambers, Green-
wood, and Liddell of Malta, still I do not think it right or

necessary to change.

   And, though in another passage of the same letter he
contemplates taking a farm on his father's estate and
* farming in a broad-brimmed hat and Scotch economi-

cals,' whatever the latter may be, it is plain that the goal
1840]  ROME  59

of his early ambition was kept steadily in view through

his darkest hours.

   Oxford thus out of the question, and Captain Moresby's
hospitahty being still open to him, Acland started off to
rejoin the fleet. He reached Naples on the 30th of May,
hoping to get on board the Pembroke on the following

morning ; but there was no Pembroke in sight, and he
learnt that she had gone no one knew whither, some
said for England. There was nothing to be done but
explore the neighbourhood -- Baiae, Vesuvius, Pompeii,
Virgil's tomb, the cave of the Sibyl, and Avernus. Then
came tidings of the arrival in the bay of another British
ship-of-war, the Bar/iam, a crack frigate of fifty guns ; and
by permission of the captain, Acland was allowed to join
her as a passenger. The Barham's first destination was
Toulon ; there he spent the 29th of June, 1838, half
deafened by the noise of the salutes fired in honour of

Queen Victoria's coronation, and he shared in a splendid
fete given by the officers of the French navy to their
British comrades to celebrate the same auspicious event.

By the middle of July the Barham was at Malta, and

Acland was once more made welcome on board the

Pembroke.

   The fleet's destination was again the Aegean, but the
admiral's orders were to touch at Tunis, and this gave
Acland an opportunity of visiting the ruins of Carthage,

a chance vouchsafed to few travellers in the days before

the French occupation. How fully he availed himself
of the privilege is shown in a voluminous letter to

Charles Courtenay, rendered all the more vivid by a

carefully executed map and neatly coloured sectional
drawings of the Cisterns and other remains, Roman
and Punic. There are some vivacious passages in
which point to recovery from the depression under
which he had suffered at Rome.
       a
                                          is

                                                                            it,
   Two miles north-west of the town the palace of the Bey,
called the Bardo. Here lives the most veritable despot of
the world. Not that he exercises with peculiar rigour this,
6o  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

his prerogative ; but being himself judge, jury, and lawyer, he
dispenses from his seat on his own legs the most offhand
justice that a feudal lord could desire. Enter Moor --
explaining that ' this iniquitous Bedouin did last night steal
my horse ' : an advocate says, ' May it please your Highness,
that Arab stole this Moor's horse ; but that Arab very poor,
this Moor very rich.' ' Bastinado the Arab, and give him
a fine of two horses ; let me have the Moor's horse which

was stolen.'

    The Bey appointed one day an audience for the admiral
and the captain. We all collected in sundry vehicles at
Tunis, and drove out in Moorish state ; some of us had

postilions with stockings and boots, others with neither.

The admiral had the Bey's State mules, and the Bey's
coachman, who of course rode the wheelers. In dimensions
he surpassed considerably the Very Rev. the Sub-Dean of

Christ Church \ and supposing that dignitary rigged in a very

long beard and long moustachios, a hat of ostrich feathers
3 feet 9 inches in diameter, a red jacket, dirty Greek panta-
loons, and boots without stockings, duly exhibiting his calves,

you would have some notion of the aforesaid coachman,
adding a scimitar and a Bedouin's cloaks Thus headed

we approached the presence of his bow-stringing Highness.

We were received in the Hall of Justice; on either side of

 the hall were ranged the old advocates, all cross-legged and

on ottomans, writing down notes of the cases brought before
 the Bey, and his decisions. Two Arabs are brought in,
 accuser and defendant. The former tells his story, being

 met at the door by an advocate of large dimensions. Being

 frightened at the sight of the Bey, they are well shaken by
 the Mamelukes, and told to respect Allah and the Bey, and
 if this frightens them more they are fairly pushed out of the
 hall unheard. But if they be collected enough, the advocate
 walks up the hall roaring out the case as he walks. The

 Bey gives the sentence, and they are ushered out and
 others ushered in. This occupies, in an aggravated case of

 murder or such like, about four minutes, in others something

   ^ Dr. Barnes.

  "^ A spirited pen-and-ink drawing of a gentleman much resem-

bling the Gordian acrobat of Bon Gaultier is added in the MS.
i84o]  TUNIS  6i

under. We were walked up the hall much in the same

style.

   After relating various instances of the Bey's ' short
way with Dissenters,' he proceeds :

   To this I may as well add one more scene of horror, and
have done. It is the slave market. At 8 o'clock all Tunis is
alive to business, the bazaar is full of buyers and sellers.
The merchants are seated cross-legged in their cells, the

Bedouins are come in from the desert, armed with their guns,
not less than six feet long, their hats of ostrich feathers, and

a huge double-handed sword ; the auctioneers roar out the
merits of a dress, a scimitar, or a painted box ; the water-

carriers ring their brazen jars and wet you with the dripping

pig-skin as they pass, and a Mameluke swaggers by in the
plenitude of power. Presently the divan of the Bey appears,

beadles and cooks precede, and a poor Oxonian, who was

seen unwittingly sketching at the steps, was seized by the

shoulders, pushed headlong into the street, separated from
(oh, horror !) his sketch-book. Remonstrances are vain.

Procul o, procul este, profani. In the middle of his fright he

is again seized, transported whence he came, seated cross-

legged on a sofa, and condescendingly nodded at by the holy
council, and bid proceed in his work. ' Heyday,' says one,
* a Christian took part of this street to England last year, and
now you have the rest on your paper. Well, it will all be

gone soon.'

   I had a great desire to see the interior-- I do not mean

Timbuctoo, but something within a reasonable distance. . . .

By stealth almost I carried off a lieutenant (for it is not

allowed by the admiral), and with Harris, the American
consul's son, and a young Cantab I started one morning

early for Carthage, remaining there all the day.
    Before starting on my journey the next morning it was

necessary to have an order from the Bey, and a Mameluke
as a protector. I had been all the day at Carthage, and did
not reach Tunis till after the gates were shut. What was

to be done ? If we waited till the next morning we should

be too late for the country. So under the guidance of Harris

we proceeded to take the town by storm, and mount the walls.
62                 HENRY ACLAND                     [1837-

This was speedily done, we were inside, and glad to rush
through the Moors who were in the market, lest we should
be severely handled for our intrusion. There is a tradition
that the Europeans will take the town on a Friday between
one and two in the afternoon. For this cause the gates are then

shut, in addition to the nightly closing which also takes place.

We reached the American's house in safety, and after a

sufficient supper, much astonishment at our arriving inside
the walls at this late hour, and reproof for our rashness from
the old consul, we lay down. At two we were up, but no
Mameluke appeared. They knew that not having entered

the town before sunset, we could not get in, and had given us

up altogether.

While the fleet was in the Bay of Tunis, dependent

upon the progress of political events, it was met by the

steamship Rhadamanthus, bound for Besika Bay and

the Dardanelles. Acland was invited to join in the

expedition, and on the shortest notice he found himself

on board her, early on the morning of the 26th of

August. After rounding the coast of Greece, and

catching sight in the distance of his much-loved

Hymettus, he reached Besika Bay, * a few miles to

the north of Alexandria Troas and about seven from
                                     '
the  entrance  to  the  Dardanelles     ;  and  in  the next  two

days he had an opportunity of making a preliminary

sur\^ey of the Plains of Troy, with a view to a more

complete sketch on some future occasion. On the

3rd of September he embarked on a French steamer,
and by the middle of the following day had arrived at

Constantinople. ' Concerning this mighty work of
Nature and of man,' he wrote, ' I feel as unable to

say anything as I did when first I went to Rome.'

Mahmoud, the destroyer of the Janissaries, was then

drawing near to the close of his Sultanate. Its last

years had been fertile in changes, especially in ail that

related to intercourse with the nations of Western

countries. As far back as 1832 Lord Stratford de Red-

cliffe, on revisiting Constantinople after only a short
1840]  CONSTANTINOPLE  63

absence, was struck by the astonishing alteration inii,
Turkish manners. When first he had been accredited
to the city of the Sultan it had been something like
Pekin prior to 1900. But now ' the Sultan and his

ministers for the first time appeared to treat "infidels"
as though they were equals. It was possible to transact
business with some of the officials without either humilia-
tion or threats. The younger generation of Turks were

becoming positively civilized ^.'
   Acland was enabled therefore to indulge in an amount

of sight-seeing which a few years earlier would have
been out of the question. But his visit was cut short
by the sudden appearance of the British fleet at the
Dardanelles. An intricate game of international cross-

purposes was then being played by Great Britain, France,
and Russia, in which Turkey and the newly-risen power

of Egypt were the pawns. How it terminated three
years later in the triumph of Palmerston's diplomacy,
in the expulsion of Mehemet Ali from Syria, and in
Turkey being placed formally under the protection of
Europe, is outside the scope of this narrative. Acland

was far from anticipating any such result.

    England (he wrote) is in a falling or a weakened state :
her army is weak compared to other powers, her navy is

wholly inefficient. It is difficult to get officers. There is
not a ship, hardly, afloat complete of officers or men even

on the peace establishment, which is about one-third less
than the war ; and France has a half more than we have

afloat, more than twice as many building. Turkey has a
fleet in the Mediterranean in number superior to ours ;
Egypt the same ; Russia nearly double in the Black Sea, and
the same in the Baltic.

   For the moment the English and the Turkish fleets
were in close alliance ; and shortly after Acland had
rejoined the Pembroke, they set sail together for Vourlo
Bay, near the site of the ancient Clazomenae. The
Turkish navy owed much of its efficiency to Captain

                                    ^ Life, vol. p. 76.
64  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

(afterwards Sir Baldwin) Walker, whose services had
been lent by the British Government. Achmet Fehmi,
the Capitan Pasha, or Lord High Admiral, was particu-
larly well-disposed towards the English ; and orders had
come out from home to conciliate the Turks in every
way. Achmet was destined in the course of the ensu-

ing year to earn an unenviable renown by passing

\over with his whole fleet to the Egyptian navy on the

eve of a critical engagement; but for the time being

he was in full favour. Captain Moresby was on the
best of terms with him, and Acland was invited to spend
some time as his guest on board the Turkish flagship
-- a chance which gave him the opportunity of observing
at first hand the ways of the Turks at sea.

   But before this, while still fresh from the Plains of

Troy, a further occasion for improving his mind with
the study of antiquities had been unexpectedly afforded
to him. The two fleets were ofl" the coast near Smyrna,

when one evening Captain Moresby informed him that
he had procured a firman from the Sultan in virtue of
which he was to visit the * Seven Churches of Asia,'

and to return with a sketch and a written account of

each. Lieutenant (afterwards Admiral) Prevost, who
was son-in-law to the captain, together with the son
of Admiral Stopford, then living as his father's guest

on the Princess Charlotte, made up the party ; they
were to travel on horseback, and their luggage was

restricted to a knapsack and a rug apiece, with the
addition, in Acland's case, of his drawing materials.

   For three weeks the young Englishmen wandered
through some of the least known and most desolate
tracts of Asia Minor under the sole charge of Hadji

their kavass, and a muleteer. Pergamos, Thyatira,

Sardis, Philadelphia, Laodicea, Ephesus, and Smyrna
were all visited, and watercolour sketches of each were

   ^ The episode, it may be remembered, was used with great
dexterity by Disraeli in one of his ParHamentary assaults on Sir

Robert Peel: see Hansard, vol. Ixxxiii, p. 113.
i84o] 'SEVEN CHURCHES OF ASIA'       65

faithfully produced for Captain Moresby's inspection.
Those drawings were in after days one of the many
noticeable features of the dining-room in Acland's
Oxford home, and sixty years later they were photo-

graphed for distribution among his children and friends.
The daily events of the expedition were carefully set
down and subsequently written up in a journal which
even now would need little apology for publication.

It must suffice, however, to give an extract from a long

letter to Liddell, one of those in which the absent pupil
attempted to render an account of his stewardship.

   I went hence to Smyrna. Visited Clazomenae and took

a plan of the piers and harbour, and then to the Seven

Churches in Asia, which I was able to do through a firman
of the Cap. P. It took eighteen days, making no delay

beyond what was necessary for barely seeing the places ; and

I was not able to do it more leisurely, which I should have

much wished. Still it was one of the most happy times

I ever passed. I cannot say how much pleasure it gave me,
though, as I have felt in all my travels, I am unfit to enjoy
their benefits. I went to the northerly places first -- Pergamos,

Thyatira, Sardis, and the ruins of Laodicea. Pergamos has

splendid ruins. A great church dedicated to St. John, and

\shown as the tomb of St. Antipas is to us one of the most

interesting. The theatre is in the mostgorgeoussituation of any

I have seen but Taormina. Above all others Sardis charmed

me most. There is but one inhabitant in its neighbourhood.
It stands desolate and awful. Oh, the wandering through
these tombs of the Lydian kings ! Who on the spot can
believe the reality? All the early visions of Herodotus, all
the childish astonishment at his tales rush before me. And

the great plain of the Hermus, seventy miles in length and

fifty without a bound to the eye E. and N. ; the lofty rugged
fantastic Tmolus and the Acropolis of Sardis itself projecting

towards you. Rome, Athens, Troy, Carthage, did not pro-
duce so much real emotion in me as did the climbing of the

   ^ Rev. 13 'And thou boldest fast my name, and hast not denied
my faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful

martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.'
ii.

          :

                                  F
66  HENRY ACLAND           [1837-

simple bare side of the tomb of Alyattes. This I can only
account for by my ignorance. In present interest Hierapolis

would rank next, the ruins are so perfect, the cemetery so

grand, and its situation so beautiful that it would rank very
high among the wonders of the world. Laodicea next.
Ephesus next. But of what use is it to thus play with such

things? I ought to say nothing, and only add that I kept
a sort of journal, of which Charles Courtenay will in turn,
I hope, have a copy, which he is instructed to show to you,

though the only novelty in it to you will be some fresh
forms of bad grammar and new phases of stupidity.

   The success of the expedition was in no small measure
due to Hadji, an ex-janissary and 'a man of very few
words, with great determination, very kind so long as
he was at liberty to use his scimitar in such way as he

thought fit and at whatever time seemed to him de-

sirable.'

   When we were between the Churches of Thyatira and

Sardis, that is crossing the great alluvial plain of the river

Hermus, and near the tumulus of Alyattes, I, riding on my

mule behind Hadji, called to him, ' Do you know where is
the ford to cross the Hermus ? ' to which Hadji replied, not
stopping, only turning his head, ' Bakallum ' (' we shall see
On which rode halfway up the tumulus, from which we
    a' I

                            a
                                   '
                                ('

                                         is
                                                             '),

                                                                                                                      *

                                                                                                          ').
could see no sign of road, and called to Hadji, Do you

know the way?' Hadji turned his head, and said in an

angry tone, Mashallah  God great and did not halt.

Not being Moslem, but only an Oxford undergraduate,

I  was not satisfied with those two answers, and called out

again, 'Hadji, do you know the way?' on which he spurred
his horse and dashed into the river which we had just reached,

calling out, 'Inshallah' ('God merciful'). Not to be outdone,is

we all dashed in after him, and came safe over to the other side.

   On the day after their return, Admiral Stopford, witha
the bulk of his fleet, sailed for Malta, leaving the Pem-

broke and two other battleships, besides some frigates,
behind him. On October 31 Captain Moresby gave

   dinner to the Capitan Pasha and other notabilities,
1840] CONSTANTINOPLE                                                                     67

and it was then proposed to Acland that he should
accompany the Turkish admiral to Constantinople.
By November 5 the fleets had reached the familiar
anchorage of Besika Bay : Captain Moresby, who was

included in the invitation, immediately packed up, and
by midday they were both on board the Turkish flag-

ship. At that moment England and Russia were popu-
larly supposed to be on the brink of war, and the Turks

were between the upper and the nether millstone.
Acland's remarks on their navy and its commander are

worth reproducing :

They have the finest ships in the world, for they keep in

pay an American who indulges his fancy and every whim by

building stupendous and splendid vessels. I am now in

a two-decker which is probably 1,000 tons larger than our

flagship in the Mediterranean, the fellow ship of Nelson's

Victory. Men are placed in these ships, which are ready-

made for them, who could not manage a brig. And what

happens ? That they cannot set even a sail properly. But

they are quick, energetic, and have their souls in their work.

Orders came from England to desire us to assimilate with

and assist the Turks in every possible way, leave no means

untried to improve and perfect them. Our fleet met the

Turkish squadron early in September : it consisted of eight

sail of the line and three frigates. Theirs of five sail of

the line and ten double-banked frigates from forty to sixty-

four guns, and smaller vessels. From Vourlo they pro-

ceeded to Scio, Scio to Besika Bay. We put on board the

Capitan Pasha a commander the best in the fleet ; on board
the Reali and another vessel a lieutenant each. In a few

weeks the guns were better managed, and the discipline more

regular and effective. . . . The Capitan Pasha is a middle-aged

man. He as you know, inferior in rank only to the Prime
Minister and the Sultan, He was not born sailor. He
             is,
                  a

                                                                                     a

                                                                                     is
was Pasha of all the country from the Dardanelles to Con-

stantinople, and then Ambassador in Russia. He                                           an

energetic man, above all useless ceremony, aware of the

inferiority of his country in many respects, and anxious to

correct them,  Mussulman without prejudice. In his office

                             F2
68  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

of admiral he learns from others, and the teacher is a man
of extraordinary quickness of eye and hand, and shows his
men, even to washing the decks himself He is now near

me, cutting out hammocks, which no one but himself under-
stands. He is therefore loved by some and hated as an
innovation by all old Moslems, . . . Captain Moresby is the
most intelligent of our captains, and most in the confidence

of our admiral, and, through his perfect frankness and good-
nature, in that of the Capitan Pasha. Through him I have

received a great deal of kindness and attention and heard
and seen much which nothing but such a concurrence of

circumstances would have obtained for any private man.

It does not happen to every man to hear the confidential
laments, hopes, and fears of the First Pasha in Turkey.

   On shore the Capitan Pasha's guests were quartered
in a set of apartments at the Admiralty, and Acland's
second visit to Constantinople under such auspices was
naturally full of interest. But it was 'splendid cap-
tivity.'

   First of all I lived in state. I need not tell you how
I should feel under such trying difficulties. I would only

suggest the analogy of a bear in the uniform of a life-

guardsman. Second, I was compelled thrice a day to over-

eat myself, to smoke myself yellow, and sit on a divan cross-
legged. Third, to go to the Pasha's warm bath and have

my various members dislocated and my skin pulled off,
beginning with the scalp. Fourth, to walk with a soldier

before me, but once or twice I dodged him down an alley
when he was not looking, and gave him the slip. Fifth, to

sleep on three feather beds and under two.

   On November 29 the return journey commenced,
and Acland, having received a magnificent damascene

sword from the Capitan Pasha, rejoined the Pembroke,

who, with her consorts, immediately set sail for Malta,

having on board, as a passenger, Mr. (afterwards Sir
Henry) Bulwer, the Secretary to the Embassy at

St. Petersburg.
   The quarantine which the squadron was compelled to
1840] THE 'PEMBROKE'  69

 submit to at Malta marked the end of Acland's con-

nexion with the Pembroke^. He was in some hopes
of being allowed to keep the Summer Term at Oxford,

and it was thought desirable that he should not miss
the chance of revisiting Rome. Early in January, 1839,

he got away from Valetta on board a steam-packet,

leaving with unfeigned regret those who had been his
shipmates, off and on, for a period of eighteen months.
Next to Captain Moresby his principal friends on board

were Lieutenants Prevost and Frere, but he had been

on the best of terms with all the ship's company^. He

had gained much in health, in self-reliance, and in ex-
perience. He had seen sights which fall to the lot of
few, and he had breathed more of the spirit of antiquity
at Carthage, on the plains of Troy, and amid the ruins
of Sardis and Ephesus than is acquired by nine out of
ten First-Class men. Above all, that free and candid
criticism which is the essence of a seafaring life, whether
in the ward-room or the gun-room, left no chance for
the growth of those little tricks of mannerism which in
all time have been the hall-mark of the typical Oxford
man. Much of the camaraderie, of the unconscious
diplomacy, of the power of adapting himself to all sorts
and conditions of men without abating a jot of his
dignity, which were so characteristic of Henry Acland,

may be attributed to his apprenticeship on board the
Pembroke, and to his rovings in Europe, in Africa, in
Asia Minor among soldiers, sailors, Greeks, Jews, Mus-

sulmen, and Bedouins.

   ^ Acland's final farewell to the ship was not paid till 1868, when
he writes : ' What do you think I found in Harwich harbour ? the
old Pembroke as a coastguard ship -- and found my old cabin and

the dear old 32-pounder as they were on the lower deck thirty
years ago. It made me a child again.'

   ^ Amongst them was a Mr. Eckman, a lieutenant in the Swedish
navy, who, like Acland, was a supernumary, but with the object of
perfecting himself in his profession. He afterwards rose to high

rank, and in 1878 Acland visited him at Gothenburg. The friend-
ship has been continued to the present generation.
70  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

   Arrived at Rome, he went back to his old quarters
on the CapitoUne Hill, where the Richmonds had now
become residents. The house was a Protestant hospital

which supported itself by letting the vacant rooms as
lodgings in the ratio of one patient to forty-four lodgers.
Bunsen had been driven to resign his position by Ultra-
montane intrigue, and was now in England ; but Abeken ^
remained, and the intimacy and liking between him and

Acland grew closer and stronger. They were in daily
intercourse, and explored together the churches and

galleries in a manner which had been beyond his
power on the previous visit. Rome was full of English
visitors, including Lord Carnarvon and a large Oxford

contingent, while Gladstone and Manning and Charles
Marriott had only just departed. The * Palazzo Tarpeio,'

as the Protestant Hospital came to be nicknamed, was
a mile from the head quarters of the English colony ; but

Acland mixed freely in the social life and entertainments,

though he declared that ' the irregularities and ridiculous

hours of the beau monde ill suit an honest sailor or

homely student.'

   As to Oxford the doctors were obdurate, and the
following autumn was pronounced the earliest date for
the resumption of his studies ; but they raised no objec-

tion to his return to England and to his putting in a
formal residence. Quitting Rome in the middle of

April, and spending Easter at Florence, he proceeded

to Venice, and up through the Tyrol into Bavaria. A

stay of some days was made at Munich, and thence he

   ^ Abeken's remarkable career only terminated in August, 1872.
Originally a Lutheran minister and Chaplain to the Embassy at
Rome, he followed Bunsen to London, and took a prominent part
in the negotiations for the Jerusalem bishopric. He subsequently
entered the Prussian Foreign Office, attracted the attention of
Bismarck, and was his indefatigable and invaluable secretary --
never leaving him through all the vicissitudes of the Austrian
and French wars : he earned the sobriquet of ' Bismarck's Pen.'

See the Times for August 14, 1872, and the Life of Max Mu/kr, and

Busch's Bismarck, passim.
1840]  OXFORD  71

moved by easy stages to Heidelberg and on to Rotter-
dam. By May 12, 1839, he was back again in England,
and the following week was in his old rooms in Christ
Church, keeping the Summer Term.

   The two years that had elapsed since his last residence

at Oxford had played havoc with his acquaintance ; but

his younger brother Leopold shared his rooms at
Christ Church, and he retained his membership of
Loder's. When he was in the Mediterranean his

friend Edward Clayton had written about the internal
politics of that society and the mischief done to it by
the indiscriminate admission of strangers to its break-
fasts. In his diary Acland records the names of the
members present at a * wine ' after his return to Oxford --
Lord Craven, Lord Kildare, Ruskin, Somers-Cocks,
John Harrison, Seymour, Scott-Murray. He makes
mention too of luncheon with * Northcote of Balliol,' and

of the interest which both Liddell and Dean Gaisford

took in his travels, and in the sketches which he had

brought back from Rome and the East. In another
passage we get a glimpse of an old Oxford custom

long since decayed : ' Missed chapel, and have an im-

position which foolishly enough cuts me to the quick.'

It was a humiliating experience for one who a few

months previously had been the honoured guest of the
Capitan Pasha. But he had his revenge in the follow-

ing term by insisting, when a lecturer wanted him to
translate oCos rvpos as ' goat's cheese,' that it was * sheep's
cheese,' and that he had eaten it often in Greece.

   Commemoration over, he buried himself at Holnicote
with the object of reading for his ' Little Go.' He

had undertaken, however, to prepare a pamphlet to
accompany the publication of his panoramic sketch of

The Plains of Troy, a task which involved a good deal
of classical reading in authors not then recognized
by the Oxford examiners. The combined work was

more than his health, by no means fully restored,
could stand. His letters and his diary are expressive
72  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

of fatigue, vexation, and despondency, which show that
he was still hardly fit to encounter the realities of pro-
fessional life. At the beginning of Michaelmas Term

he was back in Oxford, and obtained the Dean's permis-

sion to defer his appearance at Responsions till the
New Year. It was a great weight off his mind, though

he writes that during the past vacation he had laid aside
all his pleasures -- * drawing, music, letters, company, the
unmeasured delight of my father's conversation '-- for the
one object of his degree. In November his brochure

\was published and he wrote, * My father is so hearty

and so pleased about Troy. Hurrah ! '
   It was a publication which would have done no dis-

credit to a college tutor with the classics at his fingers'
ends, and there was nothing in it by which the author-

ship could have been attributed to an undergraduate
who had not passed his ' Little Go,' and whom a de-

sultory education and broken health had precluded from
attempting Honours. The panorama itself (a drawing
some 7 feet long and 15 inches high, delicately engraved
by Lewis) was a revelation of accomplishments which

were rare at Oxford. The drawing was taken from

a tumulus rising some 260 feet above the sea, and then

generally known as ' the tumulus of ^syetes,' and it is
dedicated to Dean Gaisford. It received the compli-
ment of an article all to itself in the Quarterly Review

for September, 1840 ^, which spoke in high terms both
 of the ' beautiful panoramic drawing of the Troad '
and of * the modest but scholariike description ' which
accompanied it. The reviewers concluded by saying:
 ' We accept with pleasure and gratitude such delightful

 results of genial scholarship as those which Mr. Acland

  ^ ' The Plains of Troy, illustrated by a Panoramic Drawing taken
on the spot, and a Map constructed after the latest survey. By
Henry Acland, of Christ Church, Oxford.' The original tracing of

the sketch-map mounted on a stained oilcloth is still preserved, as
well as the original drawing.

   * Vol. Ixvi, p. 357.
1840] 'THE PLAINS OF TROY'                           73

has now given us ; not careful to believe all that he

believes, yet sympathizing with his enthusiasm and his

moderation.'

Praise from such a quarter may well have compensated

for the absence of his name from the class-lists, and the

reclame arising from the publication was of real service
to Acland in another way. His letters had hitherto

betrayed an uneasy feeling that he was somewhat of

a disappointment to his parents ; after this, his first
piece of success, his steps are surer and more confi-

dent.

But for the moment his satisfaction was more than

balanced by grief at the death of Lady Devon, which
occurred on December 15. ' Stunned and stupefied '
are the only words he can find to describe his feelings.

In the following February he passed Responsions,

and now concentrated all his energies on the final

examination for his degree -- the 'Great Go' of those
days--which was to be essayed in May. The Easter

vacation was spent with his brother Tom at Malvern,

and such time as could be spared from Herodotus and

logic and the Articles was given to excursions to Wor-

cester and Ledbury and to the study of church archi-

tecture. He writes hopefully and cheerfully, ' spirits
                           '
better,  memory  improved    ;  and  mentions  with  satisfac-

tion that he had been able, through his friendship with

Sir Robert Inglis, to help his college friend Charles
Newton to obtain an ' assistantship ' in the British

Museum.

The ordeal at Oxford was successfully passed, and

it is curious to read of one who was to help in founding

a new Honour School, and for many years to direct

the medical examinations of his University, that he was

in so excited a state during the whole week that he had

intense difficulty in restraining himself * from all sorts of
madness.' ' I had to bathe my head constantly during

the two days of the examination, being let out for the

purpose.' The examiners offered to excuse him the
74  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

' viva voce,' but he declined, * for I want not nerve.'
On May 10, 1840, he put on his gown, dined in hall at
the Masters' table, and went to common-room. The
next day he was in London, interviewing Dr. Cham-

bers with regard both to his own health and the
commencement of his medical studies. The advice

received is given in his diary : ' to enter at once at St.
George's -- learn drugs -- little of botany and chemistry

·-- be up by October i in town -- begin then anatomy

and chemistry, materia medica and hospital.'

   On May 16, 1840, he entered his name at St. George's
Hospital :

    Made my bow to the physicians and authorities, and sub-

scribed to their reading-room and all other things pertaining
to the duties of an embryo Hippocrates. My father is

very kind indeed in all respects, evidently in high spirits

and delighted about my future prospects, and, I think, not

a little pleased at my having almost unknown to him, within
twenty-four hours of leaving Oxford, entered the hospital.

   Before we follow Acland in the medical career upon
which he was about to embark, it will be as well to
round off this stage of his Oxford life. He had had
in view for some time past the possibility of obtaining
election to a Radcliffe Travelling Fellowship, on which

foundation there would be a vacancy in June, 1842.
During the course, however, of the present summer

it was suggested to him that he should stand at All

Souls in the coming October.

  All Souls was at this date little more than ' a club for

young men of good family, who had shown or were
believed to possess some aptitude for work.' The
doctrine of * founder's kin ' had been extended until
there was hardly a family of any antiquity in the king-
dom that was not eligible under it ; and, in the words
of the first University Commission, * founder's kin

introduced into All Souls many members of ancient

families who might naturally wish to perpetuate in the
college persons of their own condition in hfe.' In this
1840]  ALL SOULS  75

charmed circle of county families the Aclands might
well be reckoned, and 'Tom'-- elected in 1831 -- had
only relinquished his Fellowship in the preceding
November. Many of the younger Fellows were well
known to Henry : he had certainly shown ' aptitude for
work,' and, moreover, the Statutes provided for four
Medical Fellowships, only one of which was then occu-

pied. Election was preceded by examination ^, but it
was of a perfunctory character, and the college was not

bound to follow the report of the examiners. Yet it

was the exception rather than the rule for a candidate

to be chosen at the first trial, and there were always
enough competitors to render election somewhat of a

lottery. His elder brother, though keen for his success,

scarcely dared to anticipate it ; and it was to the mingled
delight and surprise of his family that he was placed
first on the list, his colleague being the Honourable

F. A. LiddelP.
   Mr. Charles Pearson, in his fragment of delightful

autobiography, narrates how some twelve years later

he was debarred from standing at All Souls by his

scruples about swearing obedience to Statutes which
enjoined in the strictest manner a residence at Oxford

which he was unable to promise :

  I asked Acland how he had prevailed on himself to take

the oath. He replied that he had felt scruples, and had con-

   ^ Acland mentions a Latin essay [Pars sceleris dubitata fuif) and
a translation from the Spectator as being the two papers on the
first day (Oct. 29, 1840). Otherwise his diary merely relates that
he was 'much annoyed by the folly of the candidates; the Fellows
are very properly behaved ; the former play the fool the while,
especially Lane Fox, who being a stranger to me is very im-

pertinent.'

   ^ His diary says : ' In the evening, after dining with Jelf,
Leopold comes to my rooms. At 11.30, Kenyon, Leighton,
Egerton run up announcing my election. I had just been reading
Colossians iii, the lesson for the day. After they were gone
I read it aloud to Leopold, very much impressed with the occasion

of it.'
76  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

suited Dean Gaisford, who addressed him in this fashion :

' Well, Acland, your father was a Fellow of All Souls, and
A and B and C, whom you know and respect, were all
Fellows, and none of them felt themselves hampered by this
scruple. And if you think it necessary to entertain doubts
where they didn't, all I can say is that I think you must
be a very conceited young fellow.' To a man of Acland's
loyal mind the argument from authority was sufficient, if not

conclusive.

   It is a good story, and we can well believe that Gais-
ford may have returned just such an answer. It is
marred, however, by the fact that the elder Sir Thomas
never was a Fellow of All Souls. And Henry Acland's

correspondence with his mother and eldest brother
shows conclusively both that he felt the difficulty and
that he overcame it by considerations very different
from those which the Dean of Christ Church is credited

with. In a letter from T. D. Acland, written just after

the election, we find the matter put on a clear footing ^ :

   You take the oath, I am sure, in the belief that the Statutes
contain the expression of the founder's will and mind, and
you mean to fulfil them so far as change of circumstance
admits ; but you also know that the literal observance is
sometimes impossible, sometimes unlawful. The interpretation
of some parts is fixed by competent authority of the Visitor,
in others by the Warden and officers ; in other cases it is
clearly not to be settled definitely by your private judgement,
and therefore it must be a work of time for you to collect the
real practical sense, not dn'kSys but np6s <re.

   It was strange that the robust common sense of the ad-

vice should not have been apparent to Charles Pearson.
   Another passage in the same letter is worthy of quota-

tion:

   I think I have no special advice to give ; old Vaughan was

   * The writer of the letter had himself shown a most scrupulous
regard of the Statutes, by resigning his Fellowship because he had
not taken orders by the end of seven years, though a technical

exemption, almost universally adopted, was open to him.
1840]  ALL SOULS                                                                77

always kind to me; Leighton and Kenyon and Doyle my
chief friends. Popham very warm-hearted. Baugh always
very kind. I like Barrington ; he is well-informed, but pre-

judiced and sometimes haughty, hut there is great good in
him. You had best take a line about cards at once as

a convenience, otherwise you are liable to be kept late often

to make up a rubber. You should force yourself, if you can,
to not unfrequent walks with the Fellows ; several of them
like long walks : I used to fail sadly in this. And as a general
rule I would never break through any college habit or custom
till you quite see your way. Those little etiquettes are a main

element for holding together the good feeling which pervades
the very various elements of the society.

It is to be feared that this caution was neither un-

necessary nor fully heeded. Though he remained

a Fellow of the college for six years, and at a later

date contemplated offering himself as a candidate for

the Wardenship, Henry Acland never seems to have

been thoroughly at home within the walls of All

Souls. On the face of                     more congenial surround-
       a
         a

                                     it,
ings for son of Sir Thomas Acland could scarcely

have been imagined. The Warden, the Rev. Lewis

Sneyd, with his 'easy yet impressive dignity, stately

suavity, and refined courtliness of presence and man-

ners,' was type of the cultivated aristocratic society

which used to gather beneath his father's roof in

London and at Killerton. The Rodneys and Bathursts

and Lascelles, the Legges and Wrothesleys and Berties,

the Portmans and Grimstones and Bagots, were the very

class of men with whom he had been wont to associate

all his life. If was no longer the case that, in the
       a

             it

                                                            ;
                                                                '

                                                   it
                                                        is
                                                                            'a
words of Bishop Heber, written in 1808, the 'very air

of the place breathed study,' still there was no lack of

well-informed, well-read companions with whom his

varied experiences and accomplishments should have

established bond of union yet             clear that the

atmosphere of the place jarred upon him. To man of

most unconventional ways the little etiquettes of the
78  HENRY ACLAND  [1837-

college were tedious and distasteful. Brought up in
somewhat ascetic habits, with a fine disregard for the
pleasures of the table ^ and an engrained dislike of parade
and ceremony, the stately dinners in hall, the prolonged
sittings over the wine in common-room, were an in-
tolerable infliction. ' I never contemplated,' he wrote,

* the stomach-bondage under which we are held ; nor,

indeed, did I know the precise nature of the duties

which the soi-disant college habits require.'

   Full of enthusiasms and interests far removed from the
ordinary pursuits of the men surrounding him, he found
himself in a circle where nil admirari was the prevail-
ing note. However much he might have persuaded him-

self that he could conscientiously swear to the Statutes,
it was obvious to him that the spirit of the founder's

directions could not have contemplated anything re-

motely resembling the existence passed by the All Souls
Fellows of his day 2. And he soon discovered that the

dry bones of statutory authority could be invoked to
check any insidious approach on his part towards revo-
lutionary practices. When appointed to the office of
Reader of Natural Philosophy in the college, which

custom had always treated as a sinecure, he applied
to the Warden for permission to lecture to the Bible

clerks-- then, as now, the only representatives of the

undergraduate element at All Souls. He was told that
he might do so if he liked, provided that the lectures

were given at 6 a.m., the hour prescribed by the Statutes.

   ^ Almost the only note of complaint on the score of food which
I have come across among Acland's papers is the remark in con-
nexion with some seaside lodgings, 'The cookery is not delicate;
the roast meat looks like pounded cart-ruts.' It should be added

that all his life, till a very late period, he preferred to make the
mid-day meal his dinner. The contrary practice added to his

sufferings at All Souls, and he writes : ' I fancy the late dinner

hour begins to work its usual effect upon me.'
   ^ After the November election of 1844 he enters in his Diary :

* Much dejected at the non-election of an admirably quahfied

candidate, on the ground that he was in manners not haut ten.'
1840]  ALL SOULS  79

It was an ingenious and not unkindly way of administering

a snub, but it was none the less galling to the would-be

reformer. Acland, as his letters show, was at this period
going through a time of mental storm and stress, and he

was less prepared to acquiesce in what he could not ap-
prove than one of more balanced temperament, or than

he himself in later days would have been.
   That there was a somewhat querulous and exaggerated

note in his criticism of All Souls and its society appears

plainly in a letter from Charles Courtenay :

   On mature consideration you decided that it was right to
stand for All Souls. It pleased God that you should be

elected, and there you are, surrounded with many advantages.
Do not lose sight of them and look only at the dark side.
By doing so you make yourself unhappy. When things are

decidedly wrong, set yourself against them at once ; but,

I would say (though I do it with diffidence, as I know it is

dangerous), make concessions when your conscience tells you
you may. Besides, I cannot help thinking that you magnify
some of the evils. ' The sinful neglect of devotion, the
shameful performance of Divine Service, the habit of listen-
ing to oaths,' I will not defend, because, if it is so, no defence
can be made, and you must consider them as the trials of the

position in which it has pleased God to place you, and pray
for strength to avert the evil. What you mean by the luxury

of the place, I do not know, as I never saw there anything
but what befitted the condition of the Fellows, never anything
but what would become the house of a temperate prudent

man \ As to the frivolous quantity of card-playing, I do not

see how that affects you, as I suppose you need not play ; and
I thought that every Fellow could retire to his own room as

soon as he liked after the move into the coffee-room, so that

you surely might have a part of the evening to yourself; and

you must recollect that in your own or any one else's family
you would be tied to the dinner-table and drawing-room for

about two hours and a half.

   ^ Charles Courtenay had himself been twice an unsuccessful
candidate. His eldest brother, afterwards Lord Devon, had been
a Fellow,
8o HENRY ACLAND

   As time went on Acland grew more in sympathy
with his surroundings, more tolerant of the usages which
fettered his movements and inchnations. The strong
spirit of corporate loyalty which was the redeeming
spirit of the college in its darkest days got hold of
him. On October 31, 1842, he writes to his father : * We
at All Souls are not ashamed that one of the Select

Preachers is chosen from among us, and that, as last
year the head of the Vice-Chancellor's Court was also
taken from our body, so now the Mathematical Examiner

is just appointed of All Souls. These things make me
happy and thankful' And again : ' In the college I am
happy ; I have taken a quiet line which cannot be

meddled with.'

   He seems to have resided more than was usual with
the bulk of the Fellows. He never shirked any college
b'ffice that devolved upon him, and he took his full share
in the yearly examination; but the complaints which from

time to time break out in his letters show that he can
never have quite succeeded in the fulfilment of his pro-

mise to the Warden to be ' an out-and-out All Souls

man.'
                    CHAPTER IV

       ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON

                                          1840-1844

   We have seen that Acland had formally commenced

his medical studies a few weeks before his election at

All Souls. It was characteristic of Sir Thomas that

the advice with which he launched his son on the
world of London was condensed in the simple words :
' Always live like a gentleman.' Equally characteristic
was the way in which the latter put it into practice by
immediately going out and purchasing a seal and a
dispatch-box.

   In his choice of St. George's Hospital Acland had
been guided by Sir Benjamin Brodie, the benefit of

whose judgement had been already given to him on

\more than one occasion The habits of life on shipboard

and the easy discipline of Christ Church must have made
the transition to hard grinding study in London somewhat
painful under any conditions. The physical repulsion
which scarcely the most callous can avoid on their first
introduction to the operating theatre and the dissecting-
room made his chosen career for the moment wellnigh
intolerable. It is true that he had cherished no illusions.
Within a few days of entering his name he had written
to Charles Courtenay:

   I have been talking with Arthur '^ about the hospital. I
declare in some things my heart wellnigh fails. I have an
instinctive horror of death ; all of it that I have seen has been

  ^ Sir Benjamin had himself entered at St. George's as far back
as 1801, and had become assistant-surgeon there in 1808. He still
continued to lecture with more or less frequency, and his course
of instruction was eagerly followed by the students.

   - Arthur Acland had spent some months in 1838 in working
in the wards of St. George's.

                                                             G
82  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

of drowned and drowning men, save only some awful acci-

dents ; no calm, peaceful departure has been my impression

hitherto. To hear that I shall have to see daily four to ten

corpses, naked, uncared for, carried down and examined

before reckless students ; people whom I shall have, perhaps,

been anxious for, and shown kindness to, emaciated and dead
of long disease ; to think of this is very appalling to a sensi-

tive man.

   Scarcely less appalling at the first contact were the
general surroundings of a medical student's existence :

   Everything wears the air of low men, of low habits, such as

I have never hitherto come in contact with. In consequence

of my being treated uncivilly by my bookseller in Greenhill's
presence, he (G.) made the pregnant remark : ' You must be
prepared for that wherever you are known to be a medical

student.'

   In much the same strain he writes to his mother
after attending the inaugural lecture on the ist of

October :

   I strongly suspect that when my grandfather^ took his

great dislike to the life of a physician he must have been at

a medical lecture, for verily they are the most bearish set I
have ever beheld as a mass. I cannot tell you why, but the

whole tone is essentially low-bred ; in other words, there is no
breeding at all, for ' low-bred ' is too good a word by half.
The notion of a master being cheered by his pupils is enough
to sicken an Oxford man at once. It is a system as diamet-
rically opposed to all that we have been taught to esteem as
a lady's boudoir to a dissecting-room.

    And he enters in his diary :
   I am greatly horrified with the want of order and plans --
the want of control and authority exercised among us students.
The teachers truckle to us, joke ; especially the evening
lecturer, he will make any allusion or talk any folly to amuse

 the men.

   ^ Capt. Matthew Fortescue. It is a familj' legend that he refused
to hold any further communications with his step-grandson after
the latter had ' entered in the physic line.'
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-- LIFE IN LONDON 83

The lecture which had extorted the former of these

           is,

                                                                                       :
diatribes  we may hope, caricatured in the Medical

Listener of the day, an extract from which Acland

enclosed for his mother's edification

At one o'clock on the first of October, the theatre of St.

George's Hospital was crowded to excess with medical

gentlemen of all ages and grades physicians, surgeons,
                                      a

                                                ;
accoucheurs, and pupils to all three, of all ages, sizes, appear-

ances, and station in life. In few minutes side door
                                                                                          !
opened and Dr.                        the lecturer, appeared. He bowed
           I                                                                                   a
                                   ,
repeatedly to his audience, and they in return stamped and

kicked uproariously. He began Gentlemen (tremendous
                                      :

cheers) when see before me so respectable an assemblage
(enthusiastic plaudits, violent stamping, beating of sticks,
clapping of hands and the like), gentlemen (hear, hear), my

feelings are overpowered You are about to begin your
!

    a

                          ;
                                      !

                                                             !

                                                is
medical studies; the sole objects of such study are two first,
                                                                                                  :

to get name secondly, to get money (violent applause).
   Now both of these must be got by perseverance and patience,

and by those alone (audible sighs and faint murmurs).                                             Gentle-
men connexion, birth, education, are worth nothing                                                at all --

nothing. Why, gentlemen, in the Law (base profession), in

Diplomacy, in the Church, much done by favouritism but
                                                                                                     !

let me tell you, gentlemen, that the pampered man who will

commit the souls of three thousand of his fellow men to the

care of an incompetent man, will not trust one hair of his own

body but to the ablest adviser the world will afford.
   Now, gentlemen, work away-- you have the best physicians

am one), the best surgeons, the best hospital, to deal
(I

   It

                                                            G
                                                         2

                                                                     a!
                                                                                         a
with. Frenchmen are nothing to us We have arranged

everything so as to cut them out. You have only to work

hard, and you will all get money, all get names, and all be the

finest fellows as ever is. (Violent clapping, jumping, and the

like.) Exeunt omnes.

       was no aristocratic hauteur, no Oxford exclusive-
ness, which made Acland write in this manner of the

men who had chosen the same profession as himself.

His varied experiences had brought him wide ac-
quaintance, and the ward-room of man-of-war in those
84  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

days was no school of refinement ; but here there was
a peculiar style of ' raffishness ' to which he had hitherto
been a stranger. The medical student in the earlier
decades of the last century stood alone and apart. We
have met him in the persons of Bob Sawyer and
Benjamin Allen and Sam Huxtable, and in the now-
forgotten pages of Albert Smith. He was a man more
sinned against than sinning, as Henry Acland freely
acknowledged. * I notice/ he said many years after-
wards ^ in his address on the opening of the new
school at St. George's, * that the typical medical student
is still sometimes by aged idlers held up to ridicule.
By your conduct you will speedily live down this
traditional trifling. At a time when vice and careless-
ness cankered society the medical student was utterly

neglected by the State.'

  A letter written to Dr. Babington in 1843 helps to

explain the difficulty which he found in accommodating
himself to the atmosphere about him :

   The habits of my family, most remarkable for self-indulgence

and irregularity*, my own age and past life, have rendered
the character of medical student very unpleasant to me.
The more so, because it was my happiness at Oxford to

associate from the day of matriculation with men who from
their age, piety, and learning, were strangely my superiors --
so that I have long lost the habits of young men, and when

I put them on, carry them clumsily.

    Indeed that air of maturity which so strongly
impressed Ruskin was Acland's companion through
life. In some respects intensely boyish to the end, and

   1 October i, 1868.

   ^ The words are scarcely appropriate to the curious mixture
of rigour and freedom, of punctuality and unpunctuality, which
characterized the Acland household. To 'self-indulgence' in its
ordinary acceptation the lives of Sir Thomas and his sons afford
the most striking contrast. Never were men on whom the sense
of public duty weighed more strongly. The ' irregularity ' perhaps
refers to what he elsewhere calls the family habit of always
transacting the most important business after midnight.
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON 85

full of sympathy for the aspirations of the young, their
manifestations did not always strike a responsive chord
in him. We may feel confident that the rougher sort
of student took little pains to spare his sensibilities ;
and Acland would often speak in after years of the
horror which came over him on his first day in the
dissecting-room, when he was initiated into a phase of

life rougher than any with which his previous training
had made him acquainted. From the account which he
has given of what he there witnessed it must be admitted
that there was a plentiful lack of refinement, and much
which would not now be tolerated in any well-organized
metropolitan hospital. There were occasions when,
during the earlier days of his initiation, he seemed to

have entered on a task beyond his strength ; and some-
times in the house of George Richmond he could scarce
refrain from breaking down as he spoke, after a more
than usually trying experience, of the sights and sounds
of his daily life ^

   Fortunately the course of study into which he was
plunged afforded a good deal of distraction.

   I rise at six (he wrote to Charles Courtenay), and at seven
go out to walk till a quarter to eight, which hour finds me in
Westminster Abbey at morning prayers. At half-past I am
returned and at breakfast. On Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday I read until 10.30, when I have a lecture; from 11.30
to 1.30 I read again; take one mile and a halfs walk and
dinner till 2.30, then lecture again. From 3.30 I walk till six,

   ' How he strove to support himself through the ordeal will be
understood if I append the following short prayer, ' to be used
daily on reaching the Hospital,' which is preserved among his
papers : 'Almighty and Everlasting God, who makest me to do
those things that be good and acceptable to Thy Divine Majesty,
let Thy Fatherly hand, I beseech Thee, be over me in these my
fearful studies. Let Thy Holy Spirit be with me, guiding my mind,
restraining my passions, purifying my thoughts ; and so lead me
into the knowledge and obedience of Thy word, that in the end
I may obtain everlasting life through the merits of Jesus Christ
our Saviour.'
86  HENRY ACLAND                                  [1840-

and then having tea, I read all the evening. Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday, I have a chemical lecture till nine,
and the rest of the day the same, save that on Thursday I
have operations from one till two, and so cannot dine till six,

unless indeed the operations be few and speedy.

   Though it does not bear directly on his medical work,
the rest of the day's epitome is worth recording :

    It is my wish to keep professional matters out of my home,
I shall read these chiefly at the schools and in the dissecting-

room. At home I shall read my Bible, Lord Bacon's works,

Cicero, and Horace.  When I can, also some Greek.

Your Cicero I carry about and read a few lines of carefully

while my dinner gets ready, and when I wait about elsewhere.
Thereby I trust to keep up Latin, or rather acquire it. I am
in the Amicitia. Of Lord Bacon I have begun the Atlantis.
I have also been reading The Merchant and the Friar of

Sir Francis Palgrave ; a deep and fanciful book.

    A few months later he writes to the same cor-

respondent :

   I find as much as ever that whereas my work begins with
the sun and ends not much before him, so I am so fatigued
by 'Ave Maria' that I can neither read, talk, or write. I was
so last night. I could do nothing at all, so I cut myself for

some blood, and examined it all the evening in the microscope.

   But in February, 1842, he was able to say, after
detailing to Charles Courtenay a fatiguing week :

   You will wonder at my frame bearing this. Thank God, it
does. I am not now shocked or disturbed at the hospital or
its adjuncts. My labour is therefore only worth the in-
tellectual effort and the unhealthiness of the occupation, be it
what it may. Last year the sight of the place gave me

grievous pain.

   Dr. Chambers, it may be added, had expressly warned
him to avoid a multitude of lectures, ' only one anato-

mical lecture a day, and that the lecture in the theatre,
not a demonstration in the dissecting-room. Anatomy
thus commenced, with chemistry and materia medica,
must be your work at present. With regard to the
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON 87

practice of the hospital itself, I am well aware you can
make very little of it till you know something of anatomy
and chemistry. Still, however, I should advise you to
frequent the wards and examining rooms of the
hospital when you have any intervals of leisure.'

   The necessity for intermittent residence at Oxford
caused interruption in the course of his regular medical
studies, which he strove to counteract as much as
possible by attending Dr. Kidd's lectures on anatomy
at Christ Church, by doing clinical work under his
direction at the Radcliffe Infirmary, and by making the
most of any opportunities for dissecting which presented
themselves there.

   In December, 1840, Charles Courtenay was ordained ;
it was naturally an occasion of deep interest to Acland,
whose letters for long after are full of tender solicitude
and of grave discussion as to the duties and responsi-
bilities of the sacred calling. He not only advises him
on matters of conduct and conscience, such as the
obligation of fasting, but he proposes schemes for his

sermons \ and takes the utmost interest in all the details

of parochial work. Nor is it difficult to detect moments

when he is seen in hesitation as to whether he shall
follow his friend's example and abandon an occupation
which had so many uncongenial features in favour of
what they both regarded as the holiest of callings. On
Christmas Day, 1841, in a letter to the Rev. William
Barker ^, the incumbent of Broad Clyst, after dwelling
on the absorbing nature of his own studies, he goes on

to say :

   It is this very press of employment which has made and

   ^ e.g. May 18, 1841 : 'Do you wish me to help you with a
sermon ? There are some most excellent of Bishop Andrews
for Whit-Sunday, and as they are not in your reach I will prepare
one of them for present use.'

   2 Mr. Barker was one of Acland's godfathers, and his portrait
always hung opposite his bedroom door, ' to keep him in order,' as
he said.
88  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

makes me shrink from my secular profession and cling in
thought to taking orders, but from various and urgent reasons
it appears to me that this change must never take place.

   And a month or tv^o later (Feb. 1842) he wrote to
Charles Courtenay :

   You know I take my present place because it is my obvious
duty, and it is my duty because I am not deemed fit for your
blessed life. Let me be satisfied in faith that by this degrada-
tion I am not hereinafter impaired or separated from you.

   There can, I think, be little doubt that on every
ground Acland chose the right path when he resolved

to persevere in that profession to which he had been
dedicated from childhood. He would have made an

excellent parish priest, and he might not improbably

have attained high rank and distinction in the ecclesias-
tical world. But there was other work before him,

both at Oxford and in a much wider sphere, for which

he stood equipped beyond all his contemporaries.
Deep personal piety, transparent sincerity of belief, and
a courage which never shrank from expressing religious

convictions, were mightier witnesses to Christianity and
to the Church of England when united in the person of
the Regius Professor of Medicine than they could ever
have been in an ordained or consecrated minister of the

Gospel.
   In the autumn of 1841 Acland took a step to which

he was impelled by the uncared-for condition of his

fellow students at St. George's and in the m.etropohtan

hospitals generally. He resolved to show to the best
of his ability 'that trifling with death, whereby the
affections are ruined, and want of moral control, are

the causes which operate to make the medical student

what he is ; and that these things can be remedied by
the country at a very trifling cost'

  The Rev. J. H. North, afterwards brother-in-law to

Sir James Paget, and then Chaplain to St. George's

Hospital, had recently published A Letter addressed to
1844] ST. GEORGE'S- LIFE IN LONDON 89

Sir Benjamin Brodie Bart., on the Application of the

Collegiate System to the Medical Schools of the Metropolis.
On Nov. 17, 1841, there appeared,addressedtoMr, North

himself, A Letter from a Medical Student on some Moral

Difficulties in his Studies, and on the Duty of the State to
aid him in lessening them. Acland was the author, but
his anonymity was carefully preserved, and the details
of publication were settled for him by his friend, the
Rev. F. D. Maurice, then Chaplain at Guy's Hospital,
to whom his eldest brother had stood sponsor when he
was baptized at the age of twenty-six.

   The plan suggested was that houses should be pro-
vided, with the aid of a temporary subsidy from the
national exchequer, in or near the hospitals, in which
the students might live economically and simply 'as
fellows of a well-ordered college under an all-powerful
head, rather than as undergraduates under a wakeful
tutor.' But the writer disclaims the too close analogy
with the Oxford and Cambridge system which Mr. North
seemed to favour. ' It were well,' he thought, * to make
the admission to the college a favour, and existence in

it dependent solely on good conduct.'
   The heads of some such scheme had been drawn up

a year or two earlier by the Governing Body at Guy's,

though they failed to bring forth fruit ; and in 1843
a hostel on these lines was founded for the benefit of the
students of St. Bartholomew, through the munificence
of some of the Governors of that hospital, but without
recourse, it need hardly be said, to the public purse ;

Sir James Paget was the first Warden, and a full account
of its working will be found in his Life"^. Nothing,

however, was done at St. George's; and the chief interest
of Acland's pamphlet is to be found in its grave and
earnest pleading on behalf of a class of young men who
stood sorely in need of all the advocacy they could obtain.

The influence of Sir Thomas Browne is apparent in many

passages : e. g.

                                          ^ See pp. 123, 124,
90  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

   It is a disadvantage that no other class of youth labours

under, the being deprived of that natural instinct which leads
men to think of their own death when they hear of that of
others ; to be habitually called to a sense of religion (undefined,
it is true) by the sound of the tolling bell. To us the mention
of the dead calls up far other ideas.

   The personal experiences related in the letters from

which extracts have been made, lend point to the
writer's picture of the introduction of the medical student
to the scene of his vocation :

   He enters a large hospital, with no adequate notion of

medical study or its nature ; no idea which had painted for

him its wearisome details (if so he please to judge them), its
many drawbacks, its sad accumulation of physical and mental
sorrow. He had not thought upon the number of the sick

and dying with whom he was to take up his abode ; he had
not been fully prepared for familiar contact with the dead,

nor learned as yet to view his fellow men as machines with-
out souls. Hitherto, it may be, he knew of disease only that

it was from God ; that it was a remedy applied to the body to
cure the disorders of a sinning soul ; a mark of chastisement ;
an act of love from the hand of a wise Father. As yet he
had but thought death the flight of an immortal creature to
some immortal abode ; the passing of a lost being before the
tribunal of an offended God, or the embracement of a saint

in the arms of his Saviour.

  A corpse, maybe, he had never seen ; or if he had, it was

that of a parent or a brother, or a friend, over which in his
tender spirit he had wept and prayed ; on both, on disease
and on death, he had looked as the result of sin, the fruit of
the fall of Adam, the perpetual remembrance of his forefather's
guilt and his own wickedness. How could he do otherwise?
As a boy he had shrunk instinctively from the contemplation
of them ; as a youth he had dreaded their approach ; as both
he had felt death itself a moral rather than a physical change.

   It is now so with him no more : henceforth there is no

mystery, no awe ; he is guided to the dissecting-room and

mystery is dragged out into fact, and awe banished and the
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON 91

dead revealed in a guise that at first sight might appal the
man that would mount a breach.

   His affections, it ma}' be, are yet untainted, and he is
shocked to watch the indifference visible on every side. The

jest, the laugh, the game, fall heavily on his unaccustomed
ear, and he wonders, perhaps fears, or what is worse he goes
prepared to brave it ; he enters determined to show himself
careless at the scene -- there is small effort needed to part
with innocence -- he succeeds, and all his days remains un-
moved.

   Liddell must have had this passage in mind in his
characteristically frank criticism :

   My dear A. -- You have written like an honest man and
a Christian, but I fear not enough in the persuasive vein.
I like least what I fear you like most, your argument from
reverence to the dead.

   More encouraging were the comments of Mr. Glad-
stone, the friend of his eldest brother, but as yet scarcely
known to him personally :

   I cannot avoid writing a few lines to say how much I have
been pleased with your tract. I have a prejudice against

anonymous writing in general, but in this case it is not

difficult to appreciate the reasons of 3'our choice. Of the
bone and matter I will only say, that any one reading the

pamphlet, and not acquainted with the author and his age,
might I think be in doubt whether to ascribe it to a young
person on account of its ingenuous freshness, or to one of
years more advanced, for its practical sobriety.

   Three years later, Acland told Lady Brodie that
though he did not regret the publication of the letter,
3'et had he then enjoyed his present knowledge of the
world, his profession, and himself, the feeling that it
was presumptuous on his part would have effectually
deterred him. Presumptuous or not, the letter is an
illuminating revelation of the influences which then
were working within him.

    The following year (1842) brought a great disappoint-
92                  HENRY ACLAND                                [1840-

ment in its train, but at the same time put an end to

a period of uncertainty which had long tended to obscure

the ultimate goal of his efforts. Ever since the restoration

of his health had permitted his return to Oxford, his

mind had been set upon obtaining the Radcliffe Travelling

Fellowship which was to be vacated in the June of 1842.
The present emoluments and duration of the post, as well

as the qualifications of the candidates and the election by

examination, date from the year 1859 ^ But under the
founder's will, which had not then been in any way

modified, the Travelling Fellow was simply required to
be a Master of Arts ^, ' entered on the physic side ' ; he

received i!^3oo a year for ten years, half of which time
he was obliged to spend abroad, nominally in the pursuit

of medical studies. The electors were the Lord

Chancellor, the Chancellor of the University, the

Bishops of London and Winchester, the two principal

Secretaries of State, the two Chief Justices, and the

Master of the Rolls. In a body so constituted Acland

could reckon upon meeting with considerable support,

and among the Oxford Masters of that day there was

not likely to be any plethora of candidates.

    In January he wrote to Charles Courtenay : * Do not

talk about but the notion of Kidd and Weston that
a                                                                 is
                   a it,

                              it
no one will stand against me for the T. F. This had

much better not be named to any one.' As time passed

on, however, Dr. George Joseph Bell appeared as

    candidate, and                became apparent that the contest

would be severe one. The meeting of the electors

was fixed for August 10, at the House of Lords but                    it
                                                                ;
was adjourned without any conclusion being arrived at.
                                                                  a
On the afternoon of the nth Acland wrote to Charles

     There now yearly election, and the Fellowship tenable
for only two years. The candidate required to have taken First

Class, or won University Prize.
     Acland took his M. A. on May 14, 1842 his prolonged

absence from Oxford only just enabled him to keep sufficient

terms to do so.
^^                                                            is

               is
                       a

                              a
                                                       is

                                                           ;
i844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON 93

Courtenay, whose father, the Earl of Devon, was taking
a hvely interest in his candidature :

   The event of yesterday was not according to expectation.

I shall anticipate the same result on Friday, for this reason :
they divided yesterday three and three. We have sent for

the Bishop of Winchester. If he comes he will turn the

scale. But I conclude Lord Lyndhurst will do the same

with Lord Aberdeen or the Duke^ (I do not know which

was absent yesterday ; I mean whichever was absent will be

fetched) ; and then they will divide four and four and adjourn
to the winter.

   Later in the evening he adds more hopefully :

   I intend writing a note to Sir James Graham (the Home

Secretary), and leaving it to-morrow at breakfast-time, begging
him to be at the House -- in other words, reminding him of the
appointment -- for he would be likely to forget it on the day
of proroguing Parliament. The Archbishop and Bishop of
London will not forget. The Bishop of Winton, should he

come, will, of course, be there. Your father and I agree that
Lord Aberdeen will not attend ; if so, it will be decided for

myself.
    PS. The Bishop of Winton has written saying he shall put

off some diocesan appointment to come.

    But it was not to be. An unexpected defection turned
the scales, and Dr. Bell was elected. It was a severe
disappointment, both to the unsuccessful candidate and
to his family. ' My father,' he wrote, * was more dis-
appointed than I was.' He sought consolation and
distraction in a visit to Killarney to Lord Devon's Irish
property in company with Charles Courtenay. On his
return to London in the autumn he set to work at the
hospital with renewed vigour, though the following
letter (Sept. 20, 1842) shows that Sir Thomas Acland
was b}'' no means satisfied with the course which affairs
 were taking :

    ^ The Duke of Wellina;ton -- 'The Duke' par excellence -- was
 Chancellor of the University of Oxford.
94  HENRY ACLAND  1840-

   My father still holds out an idea of a ' scientific man doing
the same as if he was a Travelling Fellow,' and he offers me
£100 a year in addition to my allowance for every year I like

to spend abroad. Such a plan appears to me to be proposed
either from want of thought or ignorance of what makes
eminence or greatness in study -- study, I mean, of abstract

science in the practice of a profession. I do not conceive

that wandering habits gave Mr. Owen his knowledge, nor, for
myself, do I see any hope of turning to account a loose and
inaccurate mind without regular drill and much self-denial.

What to look forward to afterwards, whether practice in

London, a college life in Oxford, or a county town as Exeter,
I do not now determine. The only practical question is how
to acquire the soundest knowledge of the means of curing

disease.

   It was obvious that the failure to obtain the Fellowship

would necessitate a considerable change in the nature

of his studies. Two years had now been spent in hard
work at the hospital, but apart from his ineradicable

tendency to ' diffuse ' himself over a wide area, the
preparation for ten years of travel in pursuit of learn-
ing, as a Radcliffe Fellow, differed widely from the

narrower path to be trodden by one whose present aim

was to become House Physician at St. George's. A

new bent had been given to his mind, as appears in

a letter to his mother :

                                                                                              October 4, 1842.

   The upshot of the directions given by Dr. Chambers may
be stated very concisely. That the art of curing disease or

alleviating it is to be learnt in one way, and one alone : close
application, a mind deeply set on the various forms of

sickness, and entire carelessness to every subject or branch
of a subject which does not tend directly to this one end.
The business of a physician is to heal, and not to study as

a philosopher. I have never seen the matter in this light

before, nor even understood what I have undertaken till now.

My own weakness, the Travelling Fellowship, and the way in
which my future life has been mostly talked of by those
around me, have all conduced to keep me in the dark.
i844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON 95

   And writing to his father a week or two later, he puts
the matter even more directly :

    The whole of Dr. Chambers' and Dr. Babington's profes-
sional advice was summed up in this : that everything must be
renounced now for the one end of acquiring particular know-
Hedge. That was a very difficult lesson to set before me.
-All my habits and education have tended any way but doing
.as plain men have done before. Following the directions

jgiven to me, I have been applying very diligently to the

.'Study of disease, and have in a month learnt far more than in
tthe two previous years; indeed, of anatomy also. I find
imyself backward to an absurdity, yet not irrevocably. The
'work I have entered upon is very fascinating to me, and

I think that in six months' time or by next summer I shall be
in a very different state to what I now am. Mr. Babington

has done more than give me mere directions. He made me
understand plainly that I was deficient in those powers of
 mind that are essential to a great scientific man, a thing

which I have long known, but that a veil was thrown over my

 eyes by the Travelling Fellowship and some other things.
 It remains for me now, therefore, to give all my faculties for
 the next few years to medicine alone in its most unadorned
 and simple form ; and if I have strength and leisure hereafter
 to engraft collateral knowledge on practical experience, I may.

    The value of this advice was largely enhanced by the
 character of the men who gave it. Dr. Chambers had
 known Henry Acland from boyhood, both personally
 and professionally, and Dr. Babington ^ was the one

    ^ George Gisbourne Babington, cousin of Lord Macaulay and
 uncle by marriage of Charles Pearson, was a man of singularly
 subtle intellect and great capacity for acquiring knowledge of the
 most various kinds ; a profound linguist, his favourite studies
 outside his profession are said to have been military tactics and
 controversial theology. Unfortunately, a neglected pleurisy had
 ruined his health just at the moment when he was rising to the
  first rank, and in Dec. 1843 he gave up his practice to reside in
  Rome. But the friendship begun at the hospital was only severed
 by death, and some of Acland's most intimate letters are addressed
  to him.
96                 HENRY ACLAND                                       [1840-

member of the hospital staff in whom he placed implicit

confidence and reliance ; ' far the most superior man

about St. George's, with an enlarged mind that has

ranged far and wide ; in his extensive practice he pos-

sesses a knowledge very useful to his fellow creatures,

a heart yearning to use     and grasp powerful to
                            a
wield it'
                               it,
    For the next eighteen months Acland pursued the
                                 I
line thus indicated.
                                      a
                                           a                        October 21, 1843.
                                              a
      am occupied very much (he writes to his mother), and
on Monday next shall be much more so. In addition toa is
II
Dr. Nairn's Clinical Clerkship shall then have a lecture           :
   IIdaily on Botany, one on Medicine -- besides some on Anatomy,
       I                                                 is
Insanity, and Chemistry, which are not daily.                         It       my
          I
                                                                           is

intention during July to devote great deal of time to

Practical Pharmacy, and this in druggist's shop.                      I  have

made some arrangements with an eminent chemist for this

purpose, and shall continue my study with him after my
             I

short summer holiday    I\

And to Charles Courtenay he writes

When you consider that young man knows that on his

knowledge depends his usefulness, and on his intellectual

labour depends the collecting, sifting, retaining that know-

ledge, you will perceive how greatly he urged to guide all

his thoughts and time to the one pursuit he engaged in
                                                                      it

                                                                           .
                                                                               .
                                                                                   .
would never go to bed at all, would my health bear and

...my head keep clear.      have been very late in the morning

           have to-night for the first time clothes-puller that

hope will do something for me.

   The latter sentence throws some light on an undated
letter from Liddell, which seems to refer to these or

similar excesses
                :

    was very much grieved to hear how seriously ill you had

been.        feared you were unwell when you were in Oxford                            ;

but really you are yourself so much to blame. Why can you

                   '    See p. 325, infra.
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-- LIFE IN LONDON 97

not learn common prudence at your time of life, with all your
experience too, practical and medical ? What could induce
you, first, to give up your horse, when it answered so well ;
next, when you found yourself getting ill, to talk metaphysics
with that strange Somersetshire parson ? But why load you
with reproaches ? Merely to try and make you remember
another time. ' There never yet was an Acland with common

sense,' I have heard it said. You, I hoped, were in a fair
way to give the lie to such a doctrine. But I shall give you
up if you go on in that way. There ! you have not had such

a lecture, probably, since you left school !

   Towards the close of the year (1843), a change of plan
was recommended. In a letter to his mother (Dec. 31),
after lamenting that the work of self-discipline was ex-
ceedingly painful at his age, when he had to do * what
ought to have been done ten years ago, in ordinary
habits of self-restraint, calmness, regularity, bridling the
tongue, cheerfulness, urbanity, and the like,' he goes on
to say :

   Among other things I have begun negotiations about a year
at Edinburgh, but I have not fixed the date of its commence-
ment. I am tired out of St. George's, and think to leave it

at Easter for some other place ; but whether Dublin, Paris,

Edinburgh, or Guy's, I have not fixed.

    Early in 1844, he writes to thank his father for a
liberal present of game to his two late masters, * for the
days of my servitude to that strange being, Dr. Wilson,
are nearly ended, and ended with real regret.' The
middle of April found him on his way to the northern
 capital, pausing at Kidderminster on a visit to his
 brother Leopold, who was a curate there ; and at
 Birmingham, where he renewed acquaintance with
 Dr. Prince Lee, Master of King Edward's School and
 shortly to be consecrated the first Bishop of Manchester.
 He made a short stay at York, where his diary records
 a minute examination of the Minster organ and a call
 at the Lunatic Asylum. He turned aside at Abbotsford

                                                  H
98           HENRY ACLAND                               [1840-

and cut himself a stick in the woods. He saw 'fair
Melrose,' and re-read the Lay of the Last Minstrel^ and
reached Edinburgh on April 23.

   The three years and a half which Acland spent as
a medical student in London proved, as was almost in-
evitable, the pivot of his whole career. It was during
them that he laid the foundation of his professional

knowledge, and that his mind received that stimulus

towards scientific pursuits which was destined to leave
such lasting traces at Oxford. And the society in which

his college friendships, his family connexions, his

travels in Italy and the East, combined to launch him
was in itself an education of the highest value. Into the
London world of balls and routs and fashionable dinner-

parties he had neither the time nor the inclination to
enter. In spite of the self-reproaches as to wasted time
and neglected opportunities which recur with almost

painful iteration in his diary, it is clear that he was

studying with the utmost assiduity and with a vehemence

that often unduly taxed his health. Next to Sir Ben-
jamin Brodie and Dr. Babington the most important
intellectual influence exerted over him was that of
Richard Owen, to whom he made twenty years after-

wards ample acknowledgement :

   Among my first teachers of scientific anatomy you were
the chief. At the College of Surgeons, while Mr. Clift was

still there, and you were yet ascending the ladder to fame, you

received and helped me with kindness ; you first opened my

eyes to the magnificent illustrations of physiological laws

collected by your great master John Hunter ; and long before
the use of the microscope had become a fashion you first

showed me how, without        anatomical science would have
                            it,
been still in stunted state.
                                I

                                         ?
                                                     a
             a                therefore owe you all the

                 I
regard --shall not say reverence --of willing pupil     \

He had first heard Owen at the Royal Institution

      For the circumstances in which the letter from which this
extract taken came to be written, see p. 304, infra.
^

         is
\'1844] ST. GEORGE'S-- LIFE IN LONDON 99                              3

         it,lecturing on the New Zealand dinornis and the dodo,                   I
and he made personal acquaintance with him at the
^house of Sir Robert Inglis. The following letter from                                                  a
their host shows that the charm of manner and sympathy
  Itwhich were Henry Acland's passport through life were                                                                                             ;
      J.already opening to him opportunities which were beyond
the reach of the ordinary medical student :

    Professor Owen has paid you so high a compliment that

I must record it. He offered to call on me to-morrow on
business at eleven. I said : ' Come at half-past nine to break-
fast.' He said that he feared it was impossible. I added : ' I

have asked Henry Acland, but do not know whether he will

come.' He replied : ' If he comes I will.'

   That this was no mere compliment on Owen's part is
shown clearly by a letter of about this date from Acland
to his father :

   He, Professor Owen, is except Cuvier the greatest Physio-
logist of some centuries. He very kindly offered to have

a microscope made for me very cheaply. I replied that I did
not think to use a microscope now. I intended and desired
to be a practical physician, and if I began to amuse myself
with microscopical researches I should fail in them, and be no
physician either. He answered: 'Quite right; but I will, if
you will like do something else for you. If you care occasion-

ally to spend an evening alone with me will show you my
researches, and that will be both relaxation and instruction
for you

   Under the hospitable roof of Sir Robert Inglis he
made or renewed acquaintance with some of the cele-
brities of the day --with Sir Francis Palgrave, with Vice-
Chancellor Shadwell, with Archdeacon Wilberforce
while Sir Benjamin Brodie, both in Savile Row and in
his house near Dorking, made him welcome to pleasant

         was either at this time or earlier that Acland and two fellow
students joined together to learn the use of the microscope from
Mr. T. Quekett, Owen's assistant at the College of Surgeons.

                                          H
loo  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

and cultivated circle. The Chancellor of the Exchequer
(Goulburn), Professor Owen, the Dean of Salisbury,
Hugh Fortescue, and Judge Erskine, are among the
guests whose names he notes at a dinner-party at Sir

Benjamin's in 1842; and on another occasion he sets

down some interesting remarks made by the latter on
the disadvantages entailed upon the younger Pitt by
his secluded bringing-up and ignorance of the world :
' Old Lord Chatham even attended him to the dancing-

master ; all that Pitt had of mixing in life was learned

at the University, and that was reduced to a minimum
by the jealous care of Pretyman.'

   Bunsen was now the Prussian Minister at the Court
of St. James's, accompanied by Abeken, and Acland
writes of repeated visits to them and * much learned
talk.' At his eldest brother's he met Mrs. Norton, and

he often walked over to Guy's Hospital to breakfast
with Maurice. Dr. Chambers showed him much kind-

ness ; he speaks of going there to a juvenile ball, and
on another occasion of taking his microscope to exhibit
to the family. The doctor's conversation must have
encouraged him in the habit of keeping up his general

reading, as an entry in his diary shows :

  A professional man of liberal education must read classic

poetry constantly : it invigorates and purifies the mind.
Dr. Chambers recited much Ovid to-day, Penelope to

Ulysses.

   And the following list of books taken at random from

his diary shows that his taste was at any rate diversified :

Bacon, Coleridge, Crabbe, the Sibylline leaves ! Schlegel
on Shakespeare, Hooker, the Pere Goriot and Eugenie
Grmidet of Balzac (the latter he pronounces to be a
touching and graphic work), Malebranche (whom Liddell
advises him to leave severely alone), Pascal, Talfourd's
tragedies of The Athenian Captive and Ion, Burns,

Southey's Life of Bimyan, Gay's Fables, the Life of
Sir Hnmphry Davy, Fairfax's Tasso, and Sense and
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON loi

Sensibility. On Liddell's recommendation he made
a careful study of Locke ; and he writes, ' were all litera-
ture save one branch cut off from me, the one branch

I would preserve would be biography.' But he was

at this date a somewhat austere critic of men and
manners. He mentions meeting Lord Devon, Thesiger,
and Sidney Smith at dinner :

    The latter was infinitely amusing, and showed how slow
men are to condemn lowness of thought when veiled under
elegant language. He called Carlyle's language 'clotted
nonsense.' But though the whole dinner was very amusing,
it was strangely without thought and unprofitable.

   More congenial than such an evening must have been
the occasional revival of old Oxford days. Charles
Newton, now established at the British Museum, was his
constant guest at tea or breakfast, and introduced him
to Panizzi. He mentions 'a most agreeable party' at
his lodgings, 'Richmond, Ruskin, Newton, and Phillott^'
In November, 1841, he records a * day spent with curious
Ruskin and his more curious household.' Readers of
Praeterita will understand the adjective well enough to
know that the impression conveyed by it would be no
bar to the mutual regard which was to subsist between
Acland and the parents of his friend. The same entry
records unmeasured admiration for Ruskin's collection
of drawings ; and though it bears no date the following
letter from Ruskin himself seems to belong to this
period :

   Some months ago --when I asked you why you had not

made shadow darker than the dark side, you told me, you

were not aware that it should be so. And some days ago --
when I asked why you had no yellow ochre -- with your
Indian red -- you replied --you did not know that it was

  ^ The Rev. H. W. Phillott, then a master at the Charterhouse
and afterwards Canon Residentiary of Hereford, was one of
Acland's earliest Christ Church friends.
102  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

necessary, to make a grey. Now both of these admissions
surprised me -- because theirs/ piece of knowledge, is requisite
to the true representation of every soHd form ; and the second
to the production of the most important of all colours -- grey.
And both of them are things that you should have known
from the time you first took up a pencil -- and a brush.

   And your saying this led me to suppose -- forgive me if
incorrectly -- that you have paid very little attention to why's
and wherefores -- that you have acquired your very great
power of drawing by feeling -- and a high degree of natural
taste and intellect -- and by the study of the best masters--
acquiring of course in practice -- a habit of observing rules --
of whose necessity you were not altogether aware.

   Now --if this be so -- and you have done so much -- without
study --you may rely upon it you can do anything and every-
thing with it. And you will find your art infinitely easier--
because more of a science, and infinitely more amusing.

   And your success in this study will depend far more on
yourself-- and on the education you give your own mind --
than on any instruction from men or books -- if you accustom
yourself-- with every shadow and colour you notice to
enquire -- Why is this shadow of such a form -- and such
a depth -- how will it change as the sun moves -- how does
it depend on the form of the object casting it -- how far is it
a repetition of this form -- wherein and why does it differ --
whence the colour is cast -- why cast-- when it is possible --
and so on-- with every circumstance -- if with every thing that
pleases you -- or the contrary -- you inquire which is right
-- you or it -- and why right, you will gradually acquire an
acquaintance with facts and principles -- which will render
your drawings not merely pieces of fine feeling -- but em-
bodied systems of beauty-- with the stamp of truth on every

line.

   I have not time to press upon you the necessity of this
study -- and partly I am afraid to do so -- because I can

hardly believe that you are not engaged in it in some way
 or other.

    But partly to illustrate my meaning -- and partly -- because

 I have some views -- which I believe to be my own, on the
 subject -- I have thrown together -- on the enclosed sheets
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-- LIFE IN LONDON 103

a few hints relating to the first principle of composition
showing how it-- and all others -- are to be arrived at.

   All that I hope is -- that I may be able to induce you to

follow up the study of laws and rules -- as necessary to all art
--by showing you how high in its order -- how far above dry
or degraded technicality -- that study ought to be.

   Now -- I do not say that you will, but I know many people
would, when they had read thus far-- (if they had your power
of drawing) throw the paper into the fire -- muttering -- Here's
a fellow -- who never did anything but a bit of neat pencilling
in his life -- talking to me about composition and study as if
he were Claude -- or I a child. But -- whether I am pre-
suming -- or conceited -- or whatever I may be -- consider if
in this instance I may not be speaking truth. Might you
not double your power -- if you gave some time to technicali-
ties ? if they are to be so called. Do not you feel -- in your
efforts at fulfilling your really beautiful and classical con-
ceptions -- the want of the mechanical education of the hand
-- the absence of an accurate knowledge of the truth of effect ?
In the management of your light and shade-- and other
materials of composition -- do you know exactly where you
depart from truth -- and how far-- and why. Depend upon it --·
unless you do --you will be subject to perpetual mortification
from a sense of failure -- without being able to detect the
reason of it. Your eye will tell you that something is wrong
-- and you will feel that your eye knows better what it is

about, than your mind.

  I know of no book which is a sufficient guide in this

study. Most artists learn their rules mechanically -- and
never trouble themselves about the reason of them. You
had much better arrive at the rules by a process of reasoning
-- you will then feel as well as know them. And above all --
in every good work of art -- find out the mainspring -- the
keynote of its melody. Seek for the primary idea of the
artist-- and observe how he has adorned and set it off-- for
it is in the subjugation of his secondary features that his
powers of composition are chiefly shown. Watch nature
constantly -- and let the spirit of your contemplation be a
perpetual 'Why.'

   As I have time-- by fits and starts -- I will send you such
I04  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

ideas as I have received on the subject from the conversation

of artists-- and my own modes of accounting for these rules.

If you find my letters a bore -- you can throw them into the

fire -- or tell me to mind my own business. And once more
--forgive me for seeming to assume the slightest claim to
be able to teach you. I appreciate -- and envy -- your classical
feeling -- and fine perception of beauty in the very highest
walks of art. But --when I came first to Ch. Ch. I showed

Hill -- with some pride -- an effort to solve a problem which
had puzzled Biot. Hill said it was 'very fine* but puzzled
me with a quadratic equation. One day-- I was declaiming

to Gordon on the poetical merits of a noble passage in one
of the Dramatists -- but could not construe the first line
accurately-- when requested so to do. In Drawing only,

I learned my grammar thoroughly -- and it is only as a
grammarian -- that I speak to you.

   I have been chiefly induced to write you all this stuff --

because you have several times said something to me about

not being able to do what I could --in some mechanical
points. Now as I believe you mean't what you said -- and as
I can tell you exactly how I have acquired any power I may

have --you may as well know it.

   In the house of George Richmond, Acland had from

the first found help and comfort and delightful com-
panionship. The artist w^as then living up in Hampstead,

though shortly to move dov^n into York Street, and
Acland would often vi^alk out to tea or breakfast.

Richmond v^^ould return the compliment, and on one of
these occasions Acland writes :

   Richmond sat with me till late: told him all the circum-

stances of the Travelling Fellowship, which I had no business

to do, and must have bored him very much. He is a dear
fellow, and I am never with him without learning something.

   And there is a charming letter in which, a year or two
later, he depicts the family life of his friend. It was
Christmas Eve, and he is writing in the train on his way
home to Holnicote.
                        V-

              HENRY ACLAND

CRAYON BY GEORGE RICHMOND, R.A., 1846
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-- LIFE IN LONDON 105

   I found I was opposite Baker Street at nine, and so I went to

Richmond. He was in bed, but was soon routed up, or down,
or both, and then I had tea and bacon with all the children, and
danced about the room with them to the utter despair of the
day governess. For Richmond was going to a Christmas
tree at Roehampton to-night, and yesterday he bought a wolf's
skin for five shillings, and two glass eyes large enough for a
whale, and then he made a great head of it that would fill

a washerwoman's basket, a magnificent red tongue covered
with foam, teeth like sharks, and nostrils of black calico
glossy with gum water : made it so fierce a wolf as is not to be
seen in any menagerie in the Queen's dominions. The owner
of the said wolf gambolled round the room with the head on
his own shoulders, amidst the roars of Tommy, and the half
terror of all the Julias and Marys, and the whole was
crowned by wolf drinking tea out of the governess's cup.

   It was shortly after the date of this letter that
Richmond executed the crayon drawing of Acland
which is reproduced here. The artist regarded it as
almost the most perfect specimen of his own workman-

ship, but for some reason it did not meet with the
approval of Ruskin. The story goes that, on being

brought to see it in the studio in York Street, he

examined it critically for some time as it stood on the
easel, and then turning to his friend said : ' Now,

Richmond, where is Henry?' The embarrassment of
the three-- for Acland had come with his friend -- may be

imagined ; and they are said to have taken up their hats
and walked off silently arm-in-arm, not speaking until
they had completed the circuit of the Regent's Park.

   Acland's correspondence with Charles Courtenay
was kept up with unabated vigour. The latter had

been presented by Sir Thomas to the family living
at Broad Clyst, the parish in which Killerton stood.
But in April, 1843, Sir Robert Peel conveyed to him the
invitation to occupy the post of Queen's chaplain.

Acland's delight may be imagined, and the alternation
between Windsor and Buckingham Palace brought the
io6  HENRY ACLAND  [1840-

two friends more constantly together than at any time

since their Oxford days. A touching illustration of the

care with which Acland watched over his Pylades, as

he loved to call him, appears in a letter which he wrote

to a friend who held office about the Court, begging that

owing to his extreme delicacy special care might be
bestowed on Courtenay at Buckingham Palace. The
message reached the ears of Queen Victoria, who was
pleased to express a very kindly interest in her young
chaplain, and to direct that * an excellent room and bed '

should be provided for him.
   During these days he kept a diary with fair regularity.

We find him calling on Lady Emily Pusey, the mother
of the Professor of Hebrew ; and he records how on

another occasion he ' talked much on the real character

and high value of so-called Puseyism.' He goes to see
Mr. Severn, his old acquaintance in Rome; calls on the
Bishop of London (Blomfield) at Fulham ; and spends an
evening with Dr. Bird watching the circulation in a frog's
foot, a favourite demonstration in those days. More than
once he alludes to dinners at the house of Lady Raffles
(widow of that Sir Stamford Raffles who saved Singapore
to the Empire, and founded the London Zoological
Gardens) ; he spends an occasional evening with Sir
John Taylor Coleridge, Justice of the Queen's Bench
and father of the late Lord Chief Justice. He dines
with Stafford Northcote to meet the bride of the latter,

and one day he is introduced to ' Mr. Paget, Warden of
 St. Bartholomew's School,' that realization of the scheme
 sketched out in his letter to Mr. North. He made the

 acquaintance of Mr. Gull, then a student at Guy's ; and

 there occur with growing frequency allusions to Henry
 Cotton and to visits to Walwood.

    For the greater part of his student days Acland

 occupied lodgings at 67 Jermyn Street, but in 1842,
 after a sharp attack of illness, he removed to his eldest

 brother's house, 12 Queen Street, Mayfair, and remained

 there as a guest for some considerable time. Mrs. T. D.
1844] ST. GEORGE'S-LIFE IN LONDON 107

Acland, a daughter of Sir Charles Mordaunt, became one
of his fastest friends: 'Mary's gentleness, forbearance,

and good nature, her pleasant, light, cheerful spirit, had

made her loved by us all in no common degree.'

   Of the routine of his daily life we have already had
a sufficient outline. He was working at high pressure,

probably beyond his physical strength, for there is a
morbid strain in his diary. In more than one entry he
mentions that Liddell, who was a frequent visitor, had
urged on him the necessity of mental relaxation. And
he deplores his ' foolish habit of going to bed often at
2 a. m. ; a habit most baneful in itself, injurious to pro-

gress and study, and in any case fatal to devotion either

at night or morning.' His amusements were few and
simple : sometimes Lord Courtenay lent him a horse ;
on one occasion he speaks of bathing below Westminster
Bridge at 7 a. m. But as a general rule his recreation
was nothing more than a modicum of walking exercise
to Lincoln's Inn Fields, Regent's Park, and the houses
of his friends in the suburbs.

   He occasionally indulged himself with a concert
ticket, but for the theatre he had little taste ; in strong
contrast to Liddell, who was perpetually proposing
visits to see Macready in his Shakespearian roles. His

sensitive disposition made the stage too realistic and

exciting a diversion. In later years he is said to have
been so affected by the burning of Joan of Arc, in the
play of Tom Taylor's to which he went accompanied by
Richmond, that he was ill for a week, and could never
afterwards bear to hear the Maid of Orleans alluded to.

   In 1844 he had been elected to the Athenaeum ; his
first mention of that club is in connexion with a dispute
about Ward, author of the Ideal of a Christian Church.
Acland records that at Oxford he had been prejudiced

against him for his levity, and had no notion that he
was a man of such powerful intellect. He adjourned to
the Athenaeum to read his article on Mill's Logic in the
last number of the British Critic.
                     CHAPTER V

  EDINBURGH-- THE LEE'S READERSHIP-
                         MARRIAGE

                                          1844- 1846

   AcLAND took with him to Edinburgh letters of intro-
duction from Sir Benjamin Brodie to Ahson, Aber-
crombie, and Christison, then the leaders of the medical
profession in Scotland. They were duly presented, and
he soon found himself engrossed in a continuation of
his London studies, attending lectures and accompany-
ing Dr. Alison round the wards of the infirmary. Great
were the obligations under which he lay to the latter,
and the acquaintance now begun ripened in due time
into affectionate intimacy ; but the man of all others who
exercised the greatest* influence over his immediate
future was John Goodsir, the Demonstrator and Curator
of the University Museum. The interest in comparative
anatomy which Owen's lectures had first aroused in
him was rekindled under this stimulating and inspiring
teacher. Before he had been ten days in Edinburgh
he had been ' round the Pathology Museum of the
College of Surgeons with Mr. Goodsir, with whom
I was pleased,'

   He seemed earnest, and conversant with all he had to do ;
but of course we went into special topics, conversing about
points of arrangement, classification, and such like. He
stated that they are spoiling the Museum of Coll. Chin in
London by adding to Hunter's collection. The latter was
a perfect representation of Hunter's views, and burthening it
with specimens was useless. And we agreed that the true
forms of collection must be twofold, one enumerating the
changes to which organs are liable, all the various forms and
                      EDINBURGH                                                                    109

characters, and another assorted to show the cause, progress,
and ultimate result. This last scheme, the higher one, is not

attempted generally ; but, as he remarked, it is the only one
worthy of a great museum.

   Among the professional lectures he attended were
those of Dr. Trail on Medical Jurisprudence, and he

was successful in winning a Gold Medal offered by the
lecturer for the best Essay on the Detection of Feigned
Insanity ; a considerable number of the candidates were
graduates in medicine and much his senior. The result
was encouraging to him, for the time had been one of

great mental depression, as is shown by the letter in

which he announces his success to his mother and begs

her acceptance of the medal.

' I arrived in Edinburgh, impressed with the conviction that

my strength was failing, and considerably alarmed about
myself, as I had been for several weeks before I left London.
I determined to struggle against
                                ;       but soon was obliged to

put myself into Dr. Alison's hands. He thought my mindit,

was excited from want of regular application.' The competi-
tion for the medal was the result and the writer adds that --

'All this time my mind was quailing under the misery which

was seeing.           was now put in charge of women in childbed.
II
                   I
had to visit them in circumstances akin to starvation.
                                                                                                I
                                                                                                       I
had to study very closely for them, and was besides engaged

in some other investigations of painful kind which need
                      a

not dwell upon.'

Early in his Edinburgh days he had come upon

obstacles that put no small tax upon his moral courage.

One of the lecturers, whose syllabus dealt with theme
                                                                                                a

which lends itself only too easily to indehcacy and in-

nuendo, was in the habit of indulging in coarseness and

ribaldry beyond anything that Acland had ever met with

in his London studies, though Sir James Paget tells us
that similar abuse was by no means unknown even
     ^a

                '
                                                ^

                                                                                             '
there  With much pain and difficulty he called upon

                      See his Life, p. 50.
no  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

Dr. C. and told him, * with an apology for obtruding my

private feelings,' that he should be unable to continue

attendance at the lectures if they were to be couched in
the same strain. It is pleasant to read that after his

initial astonishment the lecturer received the rebuke in

good part, and as an act of reconcihation sent his son to
call upon the remonstrant. The offence was not re-
peated, and a few days later Acland mentions in his
diary : * an excellent lecture on washing babies and on

Cavoiding choosing nurses for our patients, on holding our

tongues, and listening withal. Shrewd man Dr.
   In after years Acland wrote of the teaching body at

St. George's as ' able men of the old school, despising

the stethoscope and the microscope,' which they regarded
as 'unpractical toys^' The same reproach could not
have been levelled against Edinburgh. Alison was

most delighted with the microscope which he had brought
with him from London, and Acland declares 'that almost

all points of physiology pass under the judicial eye of
this instrument, and many of chemistry and practical
medicine are, if not determined, yet simplified by it;
and it provides more topics for controversy than Church
Government'

   The possession of a microscope, then a comparative

rarity, gave him both an advantage over his fellow-
students and a sort of standing among the teachers.
In these few months indeed he made a considerable

acquaintance, professional and otherwise. The North-

erner is not as a rule spontaneous or demonstrative in
his attentions to new-comers. Acland was a little hurt

   ^ In another place he Hmits the rebuke to ' some of the teachers,'

and in particular to the physician to whom he was clinical clerk.
' Acland was accused of wasting his time, because in conjunction
with his brother Arthur he studied Laennec's writings, and mas-
tered the art of mediate auscultation to such effect that they were
able to diagnose and locate a cavity the presence of which the
physician of the case would not admit until convinced as to the
accuracy of the observation by the stern facts of the necropsy.'
British Medical Journal, Oct. 27, 1900, p. 1282.
1846]  EDINBURGH  iii

by the way in which his introductions were received ;

and even in cases where, after a moderate delay, he was

treated with abundant kindness, he at first speaks bitterly

of his cold and formal reception. One person was ' dry
and fidgety to get me out.' Another said, 'that he
should be happy to see me at anytime -- at the infirmary.'
But the acme was reached by a certain advocate on
whom he called with a note from a London acquaintance.
The worthy Scot, in the very spirit of Dr. Portman of
Brazenface, 'was much overwhelmed in the strife of
life -- tho' it is called vacation -- otherwise should have

real gratification in showing kindness or attention to
a friend of Mr. Blackwell's. And after some further
conversation, lunch being on the table, I walked off.'

   His rooms were at 118 Princes Street, 'in a cheap
respectable lodging, fit for my station as a student.' He

had been much oppressed by the noisomeness and the
stinks of the venerable wynds and closes, and he noted

as a query for reference : ' Is there such a thing as the
idea of a smell?' Once settled down, he proceeded to
interest himself in the welfare of those around him. He

instituted family prayers and Bible-readings, using his
experience as a traveller in Asia Minor to illustrate the
journeyings of St. Paul, and on occasion expounding
portions of the Shorter Catechism to the Presbyterian

handmaidens. With this high thinking he pushed plain
living to a very unwise degree. He directs his landlady
to give him ' no more than eight ounces of meat with
the bone daily and a pound of bread.' One is not
surprised to find him complaining of constant indigestion

and sleeplessness.

   Among those from whom he received much hospitahty
were Edward Ramsay -- afterwards that Dean Ramsay

whose Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character are
a treasure for all time --and Dr. Abercrombie. At the
house of the latter he made the acquaintance of Dr.
Chalmers : ' he did not talk much ; the little was with

great kindness towards me : after lunch he called upon
112  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

me and talked about Greece.' This was the beginning of

an intimacy which was afterwards continued at Oxford,
and Acland was a not infrequent guest of the Free

Kirk leader. He also attended the High Commissioner's
Levee, and dined with that functionary at Holyrood.
He appears to have had a good deal of friendly disputa-
tion with various of his Presbyterian acquaintances, and

to have attended occasionally at St. Giles's, where he
says that they sang horribly out of tune, although the

baptismal service impressed him with its simplicity and

solemnity. He mentions on one occasion being in-
structed in the art of golf, but long rambles in the
neighbourhood were his staple form of exercise ; and,
weary of his confinement in the old city, he breaks
out after one of these country walks, ' Cocks crowing
and hens clucking are become sounds as of Eden

to me.'

   Coming south at the conclusion of the medical term
he had an unsatisfactory interview with Dr. Chambers,

who told him that he was at present wholly unfit for the
responsibilities of practice. And Sir Benjamin Brodie
now renewed an invitation to spend a few weeks of

quiet, under his eye and in his charge, at Broome Park,
his country house near Dorking, until he felt better

able to face his family circle, 'where,' as he wrote,

* the good people live in a fever that would soon drive
a nervous creature wild.' Of this visit, and of Brodie's
kindness to him, Acland never tired of telling. Years
afterwards, when delivering the obituary notice of the

great surgeon before the Royal Society, he spoke
of him as ' training his powers from youth upwards by

linguistic and literary studies, by scientific pursuits, by
the diligent practice of his art, by mixing with men '; and

as 'bringing to bear on the multitudinous questions
which come before a great master of heahng a mind

accustomed to acquire and to communicate, a temper

made gentle by considerate kindness, a tact that be-

came all but unerring from his perfect integrity.' And
1846]             EDINBURGH                    113

we recognize the reminiscences of these August weeks

when the speaker added that : ' Those who knew him

only as a man of business would little suspect the playful

humour which sparkled by his fireside, the fund of

anecdote, the harmless wit, the simple pleasures of his

country walk.'

   It was during this visit that one night, lying restlessly

in bed and tormented with insomnia, the door of his

room opened, and a thin small voice was heard to say,

'You are very unwell; I will read to you/ It was

Jowett, and the passage he chose to soothe his fellow
guest was the fourteenth chapter of the Gospel of

St. John.
   Yet neither the influence of Broome Park, nor the

subsequent rambling holiday in the West of England,

could conquer the depression from which he was suffer-

ing, nor the conviction which he had acquired of never
again being anything but an invalid. ' But I must tell
you,' he wrote to his mother, ' my notion of an invalid :

one who is obliged to conform to certain rules and

habits, and because he does so is able silently and

unobserved to do more than most persons in health who

are less observant in method.*

Fortunately, both Brodie and Chambers were agreed

on urging the advisability of regular employment, and

in dissuading him from even thinking of abandoning

his profession. But the notion of a return to the solitary

lodging in Princes Street was unendurable, and he

wrote to ask Dr. Alison if he could take him into his house

as a resident pupil. * Long habit,' he explained, ' and not

over strong health render my living alone disadvan-
                                          '
tageous  to  the  progress  of  my  work    ;  and he gave his

sister-in-law, Mrs. T. D. Acland, as a reference for the

simplicity of his wants and habits. Dr. Alison assented

to the proposal, and it was arranged that the residence

should begin with the new year. Before that time,

however, Acland had gone through a period of sore

mental trial, and it was in a mood of renewed depression

                                I
                                                                1

114  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

and despondency that he presented himself at the
Ahsons' house in Heriot Row.

   Among Acland's friends and contemporaries at Christ
Church mention has already been made of William
Cotton, one of the Students, distinguished among his

fellows by overflowing animal spirits^ and an inex-
haustible fund of humour. He had taken a first in classics
and a second in mathematics. Devoted to the study of
natural history, he had anticipated Lord Avebury as a

lover of bees, he had founded an 'Apiarian Society,' and
My Bee Book is still on the shelves of those who love racy
English and curious lore. In 1842 he went out to New
Zealand as chaplain to Bishop Selwyn, whose curate he
had previously been at Windsor. Unhappily his health

failed, and on his return to England he buried himself
in a country parish where the brilliant promise of his
early years was little guessed at. Yet those who knew

them both regarded his younger brother, Henry, after-

wards Lord Justice Cotton, as inferior to William in
many of the qualities which are deemed essential to

 success.

   With Henry Cotton, as with William, Acland had

maintained the old Oxford friendship. They had for

 a time shared rooms in Jermyn Street, and the future
 Lord Justice is described as ' a keen, accurate, acute little
 man ' ; a thumb-nail sketch, to the accuracy of which the
 Chancery Bar of ten years ago would have borne ample
 testimony. He had been moreover a constant guest at
 Walwood, the Cottons' home on the borders of Epping
 Forest. The memory of William Cotton the elder is

 now chiefly associated with that ingenious piece of
 mechanism, in daily work at the Mint and the Bank,

   ' See p. 42, supra. Once on a visit to Holnicote his room was
near that of the housekeeper, Mrs. Fletcher. About dayHght he

used to crow like a cock, and this so exasperated the old lady that
she declared to Leopold Acland, whose guest he was, that none of
his brothers had ever brought such a * riotous-like ' gentleman to

Sir Thomas's house before.
1846]  EDINBURGH  115

which automatically detects any deficiency of weight in
the gold coinage. One of the old-fashioned merchants,
in the days before limited liability had swept them into
limbo, he rendered distinguished services in connexion
with the renewal of the Bank Charter, in acknowledge-
ment of which his term of office as Governor of the

Bank of England had been prolonged by an extra year.
Enjoying great influence in the City of London, and
possessed of a substantial fortune, he made it a principle
not to accumulate riches, and his generosity was out of
all proportion to his income. As one of the originators
of the National Society he had worked side by side
with Sir Thomas Acland, and he had been brought into
further contact with him in his capacity as Treasurer of
the Society for the Promotion of Christian Knowledge.
His efforts in the direction of church-building and endow-
ment were one of the first symptoms of ecclesiastical
revival in the diocese of London, and Bishop Blomfield
used to speak of him as his lay archdeacon. He was one
of those who had held aloft the venerable standard of the
Church of England during a period of sloth and laxity,
and the recollection of him and of those like him whose

number is not altogether inconsiderable, should serve to

correct the impression that all was darkness in the early

days of the nineteenth century. His wife was a woman
in benevolence and piety the equal of her husband, and
endowed with a strong and resolute will. Her full ener-
gies had been thrown into the education of her daughters,

 and they had undergone a mental training which would

 stand the test not unfavourably against the accomplish-

 ments of the young ladies of to-day. Of Sarah Cotton,
 the eldest of the sisters, the late Charles Pearson has

 written ^ :

    I am sure many who knew her for years never dreamed

 how rare and how severely trained her intellectual powers

 were. She could follow Dante's Sonnets by ear, translating

 them as they were read out to her. She knew some Greek,

                                   ^ See his Memorials, p. 84.

                                            I2
ii6  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

and was thoroughly at home in the last results of metaphy-

sical thought or political economy ; a dangerous disputer if
she was roused to controversy ; an admirable counsellor if

the aid of her clear judgement was invoked.

   'The religious views of her parents,' adds one who

remembered her as a girl, ' though strict, were in no way
narrow.' Whatever was really good and elevating in
music, poetry, or literature, the daughters were en-

couraged to study and enjoy. A perfect simplicity of

manner set off a beautiful countenance which lives in one
of Richmond's crayon drawings. It is difficult to use

in connexion with it any other term but 'saintly,' an
epithet which rises unbidden to the lips of those who, in
her passage through life, knew and loved her.

   Towards Miss Sarah Cotton Acland had felt from the

first a strong attraction ; and after 1842, the year her
brother William sailed for New Zealand, he did not
attempt to conceal from himself its real nature. There
was the customary alternation of hope and fear, but he
spoke no word. The state of his health and the doubt
as to the possibility of his being able to pursue his
profession were grave obstacles. He had nothing to

expect from his father beyond a younger son's portion,
and it was owing in no small degree to the embarrass-
ment of the situation that he shifted the scene of his
studies from London to Edinburgh. While he was on
his holiday in the autumn of 1844, a chance expression
of Mrs. Cotton's made him believe that his secret was
known. After taking counsel with his parents, he wrote
frankly to Mr. Cotton. The latter, however, in terms
to the kindliness of which Henry Acland bore full
witness, declined to give him any encouragement, for

the present at any rate, and begged him not to broach
the subject to his daughter. Acland had no course but

to acquiesce ; it was a grievous disappointment, though,
as he wrote, Mr. Cotton's letter * did not cut off the
possibility of future union.' Without resentment, but

with a crushed and wounded spirit, he fell back for
1846]  EDINBURGH  117

solace on hard work. He sets down in his diary the
advice given him by Liddell in this apparent shipwreck
of his hopes : * Think less and relax yourself more ; do
not pore over things. Look at Nature and read
Ruskin's books. Life ts unhappy : every good man,
will tell you so, if you ask him.'

   On his return to Edinburgh he was received by the
Alisons with simple and genuine kindness. His host,
elder brother of Sir Archibald the historian, was one of

the most notable figures in the northern capital^
He filled the Chair of the Practice of Medicine, was

physician to the Infirmary, and enjoyed a large con-

sulting practice. A physiological teacher of the first

rank, and unremitting in discharge of his clinical duties,
he was also a constant writer both on medical and on
social topics. His professional experience among the

poorest classes had made him well acquainted with
their wants and sufferings. And the great work of his
life was to reform the provision, or rather want of
provision, for the relief of the poor, and to assimilate in
some degree the Scotch Law on this subject to the

more humane code south of the border. It has been
finely said of him that his moral superiority was such
as to cause his intellectual powers to appear of second-
ary importance. His rugged grandeur of character, his

absolute devotion to duty made an ineffaceable im-
pression on Acland ; and to the end of his life the debt

which he owed morally and intellectually to William
Pulteney Alison was seldom absent for long from his
speech. The eighteen months which he passed in the

   ^ Acland wrote many years later of him, and of his other
Edinburgh masters : * I was working under Allen Thompson,
John Goodsir, and Alison-- three men with no superiors and
scarce rivals in their departments of Medicine, Anatomy, and
Physiology in the whole kingdom.' Dr. (afterwards Sir Robert)
Christison, who was Alison's colleague at the Infirmary, he styles
'the acutest man certainly among the Professors, and as I know
him pretty well I cannot elude his grasp or avoid contact with his

active searching mind.'
ii8  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

little house in Heriot Row formed a memorable epoch

in his history.

   To Mrs. Ahson, though in a different way, he was
scarcely less beholden. A typical Scotchwoman, hers
was a character of that mingled strength and sweetness

and reserve to which there was something very

responsive in his own affectionate and highly-strung
nature. Only a few years older than himself, Mrs.
Alison, who had no children of her own, had under-
gone more than her share of sorrow, culminating in the

successive loss of three younger brothers. The last of

them, whose early success at Cambridge augured

a brilliant future, had died only a few months pre-

viously ; and it seemed to her as if Henry Acland had
been sent to supply his place. In a very few days he
had become an integral part of the household, and he
writes to Lady Acland :

   I should have been quite distressed by Mrs. Alison's little

kindnesses and providing, not for my wants but my luxury,

were it not that I see that to withhold them would pain her.
And the great good Professor is beginning to relax and
throw aside the veil of reserve and modesty which concealed
him from view. And he is beginning to drop into my room

and talk and laugh and say very wise or instructive things in
an incredibly short time, and then glide off again to his

avocations : and he refers me to books or papers and tells

me how to resolve all doubts and difficulties -- in short I am

\in a little Elysium of goodness and knowledge

   Though Acland speaks of * our arrangements ' as
'savouring of luxury,' they seem to have been con-

spicuous rather for that modest comfort and simplicity
which was his ideal of wellbeing.

   I do nothing before breakfast. Prayers are at 8.30.

Breakfast over by 9.30 : then I go to my room. Soon after
eleven I walk a good mile or more to the Hospital. Remain

  ^ In another place he records with pride that ' Dr. Alison patted
me on the back yesterday -- no trifle, I can assure you. He never
does it but to poor people, his wife, and Fairy.'
1846]  THE LEE'S READERSHIP  119

there till nearly two, get ^d. of milk and a biscuit --go to
lecture at two -- to a lecture of Dr. Alison ; then walk or ride
till five except twice a week, when I have another lecture at
four ; and Saturday, when I have none. About five we dine.

Dr. Alison has coffee about seven unless we stay long in the

dining-room, and when he has done I go to my room till
about eight, when he goes out, and Mrs. Alison and I have tea.
After tea she works worsted and I read aloud. At 9.30

I am peremptorily dismissed, and at 10.15 ^ knock at my

wall sends me off to my room.

   The quiet tenor of this life was suddenly broken.
The unexpected resignation by Dr. Kidd of the Lee's

Readership in Anatomy placed the appointment in the
hands of the Dean of Christ Church, and Gaisford

offered it to Acland. It carried a stipend of i^2oo a year,
and was tenable with the All Souls Fellowship ^ After

much correspondence with his friends, and especially
with Brodie and Liddell, he accepted, and on March 5
the Dean wrote to inform him that the Chapter had

approved of the appointment, adding that he need not
abandon the advantage of another winter at Edinburgh

if he wished to remain there.
   It was a momentous decision, for it imposed an

almost insuperable bar on a London practice, and on
what had been the ambition of his life, the prospect of

some day becoming Physician to St. George's Hospital.

But Brodie put it bluntly -- * If you settle in London you
will not live to be forty.' A sharp attack of illness,

from which he was suffering at the time when the offer

of the Readership was made, rendered him particularly
susceptible to such a warning; and Sir Benjamin did
not omit to dwell upon other considerations -- the ' well-
informed and intellectual society' of Oxford, its proxi-

mity to London, and the influence for good which the

Reader in Anatomy might bring to bear on under-

  ^ The All Souls Fellowships were then worth under ;^ioo a

year, and barely covered the owner's ' battels.'
I20  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

graduates destined for the medical profession. He
added also that the cheaper rate of living would bring

marriage on a modest income within his reach.

   This last was a potent argument, and Acland, as soon
as the choice was made, wrote to inform Mr. Cotton of

the change in his plans; on Good Friday, 1845, he
enters in his diary : ' Mr. Cotton invited me to Walwood :

God be thanked for His accumulating mercy.' All his

friends were delighted at the prospect before him at
Oxford, and Richard Owen in particular treated him
with the greatest kindness, ' and bid me use him as the
brazen head ' associated in legend with Friars Bacon

and Bungay.
   The first course of lectures was to be given in the

October Term, and Acland, desirous of losing as little
as possible of his time with Ahson, hastened up to
Oxford to be installed as Reader, and then returned to

Edinburgh by sea. A passenger died at midnight in the

cabin next to his. He rose, and in the saloon where he

went to sit, took up a volume : it was Travels in England,
by Dr. C. G. Carus, Physician to the Court of Saxony,
who had recently visited Oxford and spoke with un-
disguised contempt of the Christ Church Museum, its
apparatus, and its teacher ^ 'Was this to be borne?'
wrote Acland in after years when telling the story of
his midnight vigil. 'John Goodsir was making a
Hunterian series for Edinburgh ; should I be rash
enough, so ill-fitted as I was by intellect and health, to
do the same at Oxford ? '

   For any such project the collection of specimens

must be an indispensable preliminary, and that would

have to wait till the summer. Meanwhile there was

plenty to do in helping Dr. Alison with his sick and in

applying himself more sedulously to anatomy and phy-
siology. Then a fresh complication arose : Dr. Wootton,

   * See Oxford and Modern Medicine, p. 14, and infra, p. 137. The
full title of the book is The King of Saxony's Journey through
England and Scotland in the year 1844.
1846]  THE LEE'S READERSHIP  121

one of the most popular physicians in Oxford, was in
failing health, and the transference of his practice
could not be long deferred. Why should not the new

Reader in Anatomy step into the vacancy ?
   The suggestion had much to commend it. The

Anatomy Lectures by themselves could only occupy a
comparatively small portion of his time ; there seemed
little prospect, in the then state of opinion at Oxford,
of any further outlet for his energies in the way of

scientific teaching, and success would bring a very
substantial addition to his income. On the other hand
it meant a reversal of all the expectations formed by
himself and those about him. The whole status of the

Medical Profession has so altered that it is difficult for

us now to realize the very moderate degree of estima-

tion in which the country practitioner was held during
the first half of the nineteenth century. The great
London physicians and surgeons had then, as to-day,

the entree into the best society, but in the provinces the

gradual process by which the doctor has emancipated
himself from the surroundings and associations of the
apothecary was far from complete. The pestle and

the apron were still inveterately associated in the
minds of older folk with the doctor on his rounds, and

one remembers 'that the secret ambition' of the father
of Arthur Pendennis 'had always been to be "a gentle-

man,"' an ambition which was only gratified when he

had quitted the surgery at Bath and bought the little

house at Fairoaks.

   The old man never spoke about the shop himself, never
alluded to it ; called in the medical practitioners of Clavering^

to attend his family ; sunk the black breeches and stockings

altogether ; attended markets and sessions, and wore a bottle-

green coat and brass buttons just as if he had been an
English gentleman all his life.

   ^ Clavering (Ottery St. Mary) is not far from Killerton, it may

be added.
122  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

   Old Mr. Pendennis had been borne to the grave
many years before the date of which we are writing ;
but one cannot read Mr. Tuckwell's amusing chapter
on ' Aesculapius in the Thirties ^ ' without seeing that,
at Oxford at any rate, the old school held the field,
and that the transition had scarcely begun. Sir

Christopher Pegge with his old-fashioned cocked hat
and wig and his massive gold-headed cane ; Dr. Kidd
* trotting about the streets in a spencer ' ; Dr. Bourne
with his ' insinuating, smiling, soft-voiced ' manner and
his ultra delicacy of inquiry are picturesque memories ;

but they are hardly what Sir Thomas Acland had in

mind when he dedicated his son to the healing art.

An extensive and lucrative practice in London, with

possibly an appointment at the Court, the fame derived
from scientific researches, the applause of crowded audi-
ences at one or another of the great medical schools --
these were objects worthy of a young man's ambition.
But to settle down at the age of thirty as a teacher

of science in a place where science commanded scant
respect--with the chance of a limited practice in the
town and surrounding neighbourhood -- may well have
seemed an inadequate fulfilment of early aspirations.

   The question was arduously debated. Liddell had once
said, with regard to some question of conduct, ' Acland,
I shall not give you any advice. Would to God every
one in Oxford did the same, and then you would be
compelled to act for yourself.' On the present occasion

every one within range was consulted, and great variety

of opinion manifested. Acland wavered more than once.
Finally, the die was cast in favour of Oxford : his path
was now clear before him, and in the closing days of
the year he had the unspeakable happiness of being
accepted by Miss Cotton as her future husband. On

December 11, Charles Courtenay received a hasty note :
' You will have in your nearest and dearest friend a
twofold welcome for the future. Pray for us.'

                              ^ Oxford Reminiscences, ch. v.
1846] THE LEE'S READERSHIP  123

   Meanwhile we have somewhat anticipated matters.
The past summer had been spent by Acland in pre-

paring himself for his lectures and in laying the founda-
tion of a collection which was one day to form the basis
of the Oxford Museum. He amassed microscopic

slides and preparations, and got together diagrams and

dissections, the latter prepared for the most part under

the eye of John Goodsir, the former made by Mr. John
Crawford Wintour, a young artist just rising to fame.
Acting on the advice of Edward Forbes, the all-

accomplished naturalist, he travelled as his companion
to Orkney and Shetland to dredge for specimens of the

marine fauna. Nor could he ever sufficiently express
his admiration for the self-abnegation of the older man

in presenting to him the dissections and memoranda
which he had previously worked out in those islands --

'The discovery, not my credit,' he said, 'is the im-
portant point. Whether you or I promulgate it matters

nothing.'
   By the beginning of term he was back again in

Oxford with fourteen large packing-cases to show for
his labours. The vexations which were to beset his path
as a pioneer of science had already commenced, for the
cases sent from Edinburgh by sea were taken into
custody at the London Docks, and the consignee found
himself for the moment under suspicion of attempting

to smuggle whisky, that spirit having been employed to
preserve the specimens. On October 22, 1845, he de-

livered his inaugural lecture in the lecture theatre at

Christ Church. The original MS. is preserved in the
form in which it was submitted to Arthur Penrhyn
Stanley, and with his pencilled marks of query and
objection. On the front page is the following note,

written fifty years after :

   I was working then at Edinburgh under John Goodsir,
Allen Thompson, and Professor Alison. I was deeply

impressed by the marvels of organization, with the revela-
tions of the microscope, notably the dawn of development
124                               HENRY ACLAND                                   [1844-

for which Allen Thompson was doing so much, and the noble                        : it,
character of Alison. There is therefore to be noted in
with all the marks of ill-formed youth, vein of seriousness
     a
                                                                              a
and yearning for knowledge.

The lecture was an unqualified success, and Mrs. Ali-

son, who in her Edinburgh home had, together with

her husband, been most vividly excited at the thought

of what was going on in Oxford, received letter from
Tom Acland in which he described as 'well given
                                           a
                                                        it
                                                                a
with an excellent manner,' and himself as being 'heartily

interested, though listening as critic rather than as an

admirer.' A few weeks later she was able to convey

   compliment less open to the suggestion of partiality,
extracted from the letter of an anonymous Oxonian
Ia

                  is
                               a
'Acland very well, and lecturing away most admir-

ably: he has larger audience than he expected, and

gives general satisfaction.                am extremely glad that
                                  '
thought of attending them.' But more pleasing to his
                                       I
mind than any of the congratulations with which he

was overwhelmed must have been the assurance he was

able to give Mrs. Alison that Liddell was quite satisfied.'
       was not until after the first course of lectures had
It

been delivered and the term at an end that he tried his

fate at Walwood. The Christmas Vacation was spent
at Holnicote, when Miss Cotton was formally introduced
into the family circle; and then the Lee's Reader had

to hasten up to Oxford.                    was his intention to proceed
It
                                        ;

                              a
                                 a
                                     a

                                   It
to Edinburgh but sharp return of typhlitis, from which

he had suffered year before, detained him in London.

    yielded to regimen of systematic starving; and

Mrs. Alison wrote to express her husband's strong
disapproval of the excessive reliance on the virtues of

calomel, to which the English faculty were supposed
to be prone. By the middle of March he was back
again in Heriot Row, where he spent couple of
months in hard work. His marriage was fixed for the
                                           it
                                                             a
summer, and, as he was to commence residence and

practice in the ensuing October, would be necessary
1846] THE LEE'S READERSHIP  125

to obtain his professional qualification without delay.

He resolved to take the degree of Bachelor of Medicine

from his own University, and also to obtain the diploma
of the Royal College of Physicians in London.

   For the moment, however, his object was to prepare
himself for his duties as Lee's Reader and his work

as a physician rather than for any examinations. He
made the utmost use of Alison, and laboured assiduously
under Goodsir, into whose intimacy and good graces
he drifted more and more. It was at this date that the

fine cast now in the anatomical department of the
Oxford Museum was executed from a ' dissection
subject' which Acland and Goodsir had combined in
making the year before ^ His old Edinburgh friend-
ships were renewed and strengthened in many direc-
tions ; but the homely life with the Alisons was ever the
centre of his existence, and forms a staple topic in his
correspondence with Miss Cotton. Mrs. Alison's sym-

pathy in his happiness, and the eagerness with which
she flung herself into all their schemes and plans, did
much to abridge the time of separation. She herself

had always been helpful to her own husband in his busy

life ; and the Professor, in detecting a beautiful and

unfamiliar Italian penmanship in the MS. of a Christ

Church lecture for the ensuing term, said with a

chuckle: 'Ha, ha! Wifie! Miss Cotton, I suspect, does
not eat the bread of idleness any more than Wifie

does on these occasions.'

   Before the end of May Acland was residing at All

Souls, and there was some question as to whether he
should undertake the office of Proctor for the ensuing

academic year. It meant a welcome ;^3oo ; but, acting

on Dean Gaisford's advice, he decided against though
looking wistfully at the emolument. The Oxford

Medical Examination was pending, and he made short
excursion to London for fortnight's cram with
'grinder,' in Sloane Street -- such assistance not being

                                            See p. 478, infra.
^

               a
                                                     it,

                                                        a
                                                                    a
126  HENRY ACLAND                              [1844-

obtainable in Oxford itself. On June 13 he presented
himself before the examiners, the only candidate ; and
on June 16 received his 'testamur' from Drs. Ogle,
Daubeny, and Greenhill, the two former of whom had
been attendants at the lectures in his own class-room.

  A further ordeal remained, before the College of

Physicians, where he found himself, on June 19, * in
a dreadful stew' with a solitary and highly nervous

'Icompanion, 'partaking of French rolls and coffee.'

was asked a few but hard questions,' in viva voce,

'which happily I knew. The President and Censor

examined me in Latin.' With regard to the paper-

work, in which he was somewhat harassed by the

importunities of his fellow sufferer, he makes the naive
admission that he ' had no idea what a pleasant thing

it was to sit still and write quietly for six hours.' On

June 24 he received the grateful intelligence that he

had passed a very creditable examination, and on July 14

he was married.

   Of the intense happiness of that union it is not for
me to speak : I will only quote the words of one who
was well acquainted both with Acland and his wife ^ :

   Mrs. Acland was not a woman to be easily known. She
was naturally reserved, from modesty, from the austere habit
of a Puritan bringing-up, from a strong will that kept every
word and act in control ; and perhaps also from an un-

conscious jealousy of tenderness which dedicated whatever
was best in her to those she loved, and would not squander it
upon strangers. The contrast of her serene cheerfulness^,
calm strength, and scientific habit of thought with her

husband's impulsive nature, generally cheerful as a child,
but easily chafed and depressed, was very interesting and

^ Charles Pearson, Memorials, p. 83.
^ Her future husband paid homage to this characteristic in a

'Iletter written shortly before their marriage, when the troubles of
house-hunting seemed cumulative and unending:  am much

afraid you will be a good deal worried-- no, by the way, you never
are --at all this.'
1846]  MARRIAGE  127

admirable. In general each completed the other, Acland

forced his wife into society, which she gradually came to
enjoy ; and she ordered the household sympathetically so as
not to clash with his irregular wants, trained the children
during their early years, and counselled him wisely and well
in all difficulties.

   After long and troubled tossing the spirit of Henry
Acland was in quiet water. Up till now, in spite of high
gifts, fine character, and generous disposition, there had
been something noticeably lacking. He had missed
that repose and sympathy which his most intimate
friendships had failed to bring. Depression due to
ill-health and to want of complete accord with those
dearest to him, an almost morbid self-consciousness, and
a habit of introspection carried to excess, had made his
diaries and his letters a record of exaggerated self-
depreciation and reproach. He was now to find that

              Steadfast rest of all things firmly stayed
              Upon the pillars of eternity

which is the crown of an ideally perfect marriage.
   The honeymoon was spent in Switzerland, mainly on

Liddell's persuasion. Acland had been inspired by some
not over-prudent friends with the ambition to make

\a trip to Norway, then practically an unknown country

Little encouragement or information was procurable-,

   ^ Sir Thomas Acland had had an unpleasant experience there
in his youth ; the kingdom of Denmark was under the heel of

Napoleon, and he was arrested by the local authorities towards
the close of the long war, and kept as a detenu for many months.

   ^ The following letter reads in curious contrast with the present
arrangements of the Wilson Line, which have made Norway the

second playground in Europe :
                                                             Hull, March 27, 1846.

Professor Acland, 44 Heriot Row, Edinburgh.
   Sir, -- In reply to your favour of the 25th inst. we beg to inform

you that the only communication between Hull and Norway vdll

be by small Norwegian trading vessels, sailing about once a

month. We have sailing vessels for Gothenburg about every
128  HENRY ACLAND  [1844-

and the happy pair fell back on the more humdrum

pleasures of the Rhine and the Swiss mountains. The
latter were terra incognita to both of them, and Acland

was now enabled for the first time to study a glacier.

At Chamounix they were fortunate enough to fall in with
Ruskin, who was there with his mother. Mrs. Acland

was happy to stay and bear her company, while the men

explored the Montanvert and the Jardin.
   Early in September they were in Holland, and settled

down at Leyden. Holiday time was over. Acland had
brought introductions from Richard Owen to the leading

scientific personages in the University^, and was bent
on seeking hints for the formation and arrangement of
his Oxford collections. He was soon established at a

desk in the Natural History Museum, devoting himself
to the cases of fishes and reptiles, birds and quadrupeds.
The stay in Holland lasted for about a month, and in-

cluded visits to Utrecht and Haarlem, the Hague and
Amsterdam; the absence of any English service at

Leyden inducing them to spend Sunday at some place
where an English chaplain could be found. In Leyden

itself they lived pleasantly and economically, after the
Dutch fashion, in lodgings opposite the Hotel de Ville ;

and they received much hospitality from the Profes-

fourteen to twenty-one days, some of which are very comfortably
fitted up, and frequently carry passengers. We are not able to
give any information about the Norwegian coasting steamers.

       We are respectfully. Sir, your most obedient Servants,
                            pp. Thomas Wilson, Sons & Co.
                                                              A. W. Newbald.

   It should be added that the trip to Norway was only deferred,
but to a distant date (1872).

   ^ Among them was Professor Vr6lik,the learned anthropologist,
who wrote to his friend Mr. (afterwards Sir James) Paget in
quaint English : ' Did Mr. Acland give you no velleity of making
a trip to Holland? I Was very much pleased with him and with
his lady. He is a very respectable and good-informed young
man.'
1846]  MARRIAGE  129

seriate, Schlegel, one of the Curators of the Museum,

being especially kind to them ^
   By the beginning of October they were back in

Oxford. It was the first visit on the continent that
Acland had made since he had definitely adopted a

medical career, and from it may be said to date the
beginning of his intimate relations with the leaders of
foreign scientific thought. The establishment of abetter
mutual understanding between Oxford and the Univer-
sities of continental Europe was by no means the least
of the services which Acland was to render to his Alma

Mater in the days that were rapidly approaching.

   ^ They had previously stayed at Bonn with Professor Brandes
and his family.
             CHAPTER VI

EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE
        TEACHING IN OXFORD

                       1846-1853.

The first Oxford home of the Aclands was within the

famihar precincts of Christ Church. Houses were not

easy to find in those days, but a small dwelling had at

last, after much search, been acquired in Merton Street.

A great deal, however, remained to be done to and in
           a

                 '

                          it
                                         '
                                                                         it,
the meantime Canon Jelf, whose duties as Principal of

King's College took him up to London in the winter,

had placed his lodgings in Tom Quad at their disposal.
The locality was most convenient for the lecture theatre

and the museum, but was not equally well adapted to

the needs of doctor in practice. Early in the following

year Acland migrated to Merton Street, where he put up

his door-plate and awaited his patients.

The fact that for so many years his strictly profes-

sional duties formed only small part of Acland's
           a
              a

                                it
                                       is,

                                             a
                                                      a
                                                         it

                                                         is

                                                                          a
multitudinous activities has caused some misconception

as to the place which he held as physician at Oxford.

From his diaries and correspondence       clear that he

sprang into large and rapidly increasing practice from

the very beginning. But  however, to his work as an

organizer, as teacher of science, and as pioneer of

the movement which was so profoundly to affect the

University, that our attention must for the moment be

confined.

   In his diary for Easter Day, 1845, when in the first
flush of enthusiasm at his election to the Lee's Reader-

ship, and before the stern realities of the task had

dawned upon him, Acland had given expression to his

projects and hopes  :
EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 131

   In relation to my Oxford appointment it occurs to me to
endeavour as far as I can to raise the standard of physical
study. I am sure that it would add to the health, usefulness,

peace, and happiness of the place. And I think it may be
done by me in this way : by doing my own work as well as I
can, and if I find myself approved and am able by kindliness,

courtesy, and the like, to get Johnson ^ the Observer to give

some gratuitous lectures on astronomical subjects with

astronomical soirees. I will whip in and try to get myself

made Teacher of Artistic Anatomy in some manner to the

Randolph  Institution  ^     get  Ruskin  down ;  get  him  made
                          ;

Professor of Art ; and invite Severn and some other enthu-
siasts. I think it is passing strange if with H. G. L. we
cannot get up some life -- and yet why did not Dr. Buckland ?

He did for awhile.

A few months later, writing to his father from Edin-

burgh, he shows that he had begun to realize something
of the nature of the forces arrayed against him within

the University, and of the spirit which was arising

...outside its walls :
         if I keep quiet now and hold my tongue and spend

the next two, three, four, five years or twice as many in amassing

knowledge, drawings, and dissections, and in lecturing to six

or eight men a term, who knows but that either the University
of herself may require more of her Professors, or that some
Paul Pry Commission (I beg the pardon of the House of
Commons) may not gently insinuate itself by the Great
Western and say : ' Really, gentlemen, if you are so im-

pressed with the fact that these branches of knowledge are

useless you cannot object to surrendering your Professors ;
and we of the world who do think, wrongly enough according
to you, that the history of the earth, the study of the vegetable
and animal world, of the heavens, of matter and the like, are

things which an University by her name professes to teach,
advance, and uphold -- we propose to remove the excrescences
and place the burden on the back of Edinburgh, London,

   ^ Manuel Johnson, the frfend of Newman.
  ^ Now the University Galleries, see Oxford Historical Register
(1900), p. 100.

                                              K2
132            HENRY ACLAND                [1846-

Glasgow, Dublin, and Durham, and to help such rising places
as the collegiate establishment at Manchester and the school

at Birmingham . . .

  You ask me why I am so energetic. Because I have been
a year here, and because I see that the utter severance

of moral training from the communication of knowledge

is a great evil ; and because I believe that the pious founda-

tions of Oxford could do more to regulate knowledge and

to advance it in right directions by their wealth and their
theological character than all Great Britain besides. But

how is it now? Every reading man reads for honours,

and his private tutor, if he has tastes for anything but his
classics or his mathematics, says : ' You will lose your class.'
I speak from personal knowledge. Why, I shall give next

term about twenty-four lectures, twenty-four hours, one day

out of three and a half years ; and John Barton ^ has already
...told me (and he is fond of natural objects) that he cannot
come -- he should like, but he dares not.  I repeat Oxford

may be of great service to England in guiding and regulating

what she actually professes to teach, but as a fact entirely

neglects-- excepting at Christ Church, where the Dean makes

the men attend the Professor of Natural Philosophy. She
may ; and I am satisfied that ten, twenty, fifty years hence -- I
know not when -- she either will, or will forfeit the power and
...the means.  At the best, do what I will, I shall be a humble
teacher to any that are committed to me. I might if I had
not too much knowledge of Him, marvel that I am permitted

to be a teacher at all ; while on the other hand, in the face of

all my faults, I think I shall prevail at last, and that while I

am spared no one will explain the works of the Creator with

more love, admiration, and gratitude. Would that in this my

head would rival my heart.

  Of the attitude of Oxford to Natural Science in the

middle of the last century much has been written, and
Acland himself has painted in vivid colours the condition
of things which he found on his election to the Reader-

ship :

               ^ His youngest brother.
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 133

    The Science studies of the University were from various
causes almost extinct, notwithstanding the efforts of Buckland,
 Kidd, and Daubeny : Kidd, a man of a truly scientific spirit ;
 Daubeny a sincere, high-minded, able chemist, both had failed.

I felt the work before me desperate or hopeless. The intellect

of the University was wholly given to ecclesiastical and
theological questions. All physical science was discounte-

nanced ^

   And in his Letter to Dr. James Andrew'^ he has traced

the decay which had overtaken the various efforts at a
scientific revival :

   As you know the Royal Society was at least half founded
in your College of Wadham about 1650, before it was removed

to London. Linacre had been Fellow of All Souls in the

fifteenth and Sydenham in the seventeenth century. Harvey
had become Warden of Merton for a short period during the
stormy time of 1645. Radcliffe had left money in the following
century to build a library near the Bodleian (not, as is often
said, for the purpose of medicine especially). From funds
bequeathed by him, his trustees built a hospital to his

memory, and with a wide scientific appreciation erected an
observatory, with provision for its endowment and main-

tenance. Willis and others had adorned the University,
studying medicine, however, on the Continent. Dr. Lee left
estates to Christ Church out of which a small stipend was to
be paid to a Reader in Anatomy. Dr. George Aldrich had
given about £130 a year each for a Professor of Chemistry,
of Anatomy, and Medicine; and other endowments, modest

enough, were made for Geology, Mineralogy, Astronomy,
Mathematics, Geometry. . . . The University had not a single
laboratory for students in any subject. The Regius Professor

   ^ Extracted from memoranda supplied by him to the biographers

of Dr. Pusey, see p. 141, infra. As Lord Salisbury put it in his
Presidential Address to the British Association at their Oxford
meeting in 1894 : * Science with the University for many genera-

tions bore a signification different from that which belongs to it in
this assembly. It represented the knowledge which alone in the
Middle Ages was thought worthy of the name of science-- the know-
ledge gained not by external observation but by mere reflection.'

   ^ See Oxford and Modern Medicine (1890), pp. 14-19.
134  HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

of Medicine had neither books, drawings, apparatus, nor

\apartment, and was not necessarily attached to the hospital

A residence, of which a long lease had been left for his use ^

his only visible dignity, had ceased to be his. Great efforts
had been made by Dr. Kidd and the two brothers Duncan to
light the torch of Science. Daubenyhad won golden opinions
by his industry, single-heartedness, and devotion, both to
Chemistry and Botany. He practically made the Botanical
Gardens. Buckland had carried by storm some of the most

intelligent residents, and commanded a large audience by his

graphic eloquence and his enthusiastic devotion to the new
study of the formation and growth of our planet. He had
disturbed the slumbers of many who could not open their eyes

to the true genesis of the earth. Sir Charles Lyell ^ had led
attacks on the University for its neglect of natural knowledge,

for whose advancement so much had been done by the able

men I have named. But waves of indifference had swept

over the University at the end of the last century and the
beginning of this. The revival which began partly no doubt

with Wesley, but in right earnest about 1830, was wholly
theological. It was theological, however, in a limited way.
It was not, as I read the story or watched its developments,

 an open fight for those deepest questions which agitated men
 in the time of Bishop Butler, or stir men now throughout the

world of human thought. It took in large measure the form
 of a struggle between thinkers and Christian historians on

 questions, vital, without doubt, to the forms and history of

 Christianity, but which left comparatively on one side the

 primary questions which belong to the unfolding knowledge
 of the nature and origin of organic beings, and the unity of

 the material universe.

   The Professorships in connexion with Medicine and

its kindred studies were so poorly remunerated as to be
scarcely worth possessing unless two or three were
held by the same person. Thus the Regius Professor

     ' The Radcliffe Infirmary.
     ^ Frewin Hall.

     ^ The famous geologist graduated at Exeter College in 1819.
i853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 135

of Medicine was, ex officio, Aldrichian Professor of

Anatomy and Tomlin's Reader of Anatomy ; but no

museum, no dissecting-room, and no apparatus was

attached to any of these offices. A glance at the

University Calendar for 1846 will show the personnel
and the distribution of the Oxford Professoriate in the

....field of Natural Science.                        Dr. Kidd.
   Regius Professor of Medicine
   Sedleian Professor of Natural     . G. L. Cooke, B.D.
 .....Philosophy                      Baden Powell, M.A.
   Savilian Professor of Geometry .  W. F. Donkin, M.A.

          ,, ,, ,, Astronomy                 . Dr. Daubeny.
   Professor of Botany and Rural
                                     Dr. Kidd.
       Economy
Tomlin Praelector of Anatomy

Clinical Professor of Medicine       Dr. Ogle.

Aldrichian Professor of the

Practice of Medicine                 Dr. Ogle.

Professor of Anatomy                        Dr. Kidd.
Professor of Chemistry
                                     Dr. Daubeny \

Reader in Experimental Philosophy    R. Walker, B.D.

Reader in Mineralogy .               Dr. Buckland.

Reader in Geology                    Dr. Buckland.

   The Readership in Anatomy to which Acland had
been appointed was not a University office. It was
founded under the will of Dr. Matthew Lee, a former
Student of Christ Church and a munificent benefactor
to that foundation and to Westminster School^ That
instrument -- dated August 27, 1755 -- directed that the
sum of iJ'ioo a year, clear of all deduction, was to be paid
out of the revenues of certain of his estates for the main-

tenance of an Anatomical Lecturer and the encourage-
ment of the study of Anatomy. The Lecturer was to
be, for choice, a Westminster Student, but any member

  ^ His immediate predecessor in this chair was Dr. Kidd.
   2 It was with money bequeathed by him that the ' old Library '
at Christ Church was converted into rooms for Students and

Commoners.
136  HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

of the House was eligible : he was to be a Master of
Arts, and his name must have been entered previously
to his election 'in the physic line in the University of

Oxford,' and he was to be a layman and immediately

removed from office should he take Priest's or Deacon's

orders. He was required to reside in Oxford for six

months in the year and * to take, teach and instruct no
Gentleman Pupil or Pupils in any art or science what-
ever except Anatomy, Physick or Botany.' He was to go
through two ' regular and compleat courses of anatomy
every year, in each of which he was to dissect at least
one adult human body and distinctly explain and
regularly demonstrate all the bones, viscera, blood
vessels, muscles, nerves and all other parts of the
human body with their respective uses.' Four Students
and two commoners of the House were to attend the
course of Lectures gratuitously, for all others a proper

fee might be taken. A further sum of £^0 was charged

on the estates towards the expense of making proper
anatomical preparations and of procuring at least two

adult human bodies every year, and for decently carrying
away and burying the said bodies. Failure to give the

lectures or to procure the bodies was to be visited by
forfeiture of the stipend, which was then to be expended
in books for such Students from Westminster as should

be adjudged to want them most and deserve them best.
    The property came into the hands of Christ Church

in 1755, and in the following year two rooms serving

for a museum and lecture theatre were built at the

back of the dining-hall. When Acland entered upon
his duties the value of the estate had largely increased,

the Reader's salary had been raised to ;!^2oo a year,

and the Dean and Chapter were quite prepared to

expend the surplus income on objects connected with
the study of anatomy. Originally the purchases appear

 to have been confined to subjects for dissection, but in
 1828, as the result of a Chancery suit, it was discovered

 that a considerable sum had accumulated which might
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 137

be claimed for the benefit of the museum. Dr. Buckland,

then Canon of Christ Church, was characteristically

prominent in this lucky find. The Anatomical Act of

1832 had placed difficulties in the way of providing
human subjects, and Dr. Kidd had obtained permission

from the Trustees to lecture from models and prepara-
tions. In this arrangement Acland willingly acquiesced.

He held that human dissection was no recreation for

amateurs, and ought to be confined to lectures intended

exclusively for serious students. The receipt of a corpse

in a box by coach, and the consequent speculations and

inquiries of the undergraduates at the door of the

museum, were evils which outweighed any good that

could be derived by the Westminster Students from a

hasty and imperfect demonstration upon it.

Dr. Kidd had himself succeeded Sir Christopher

Pegge, whose ' fluent desultory lectures,' as Mr. Tuck-

well calls them, had created some little sensation in the

Oxford of his day. Of Kidd, Acland always spoke

with respect. In his inaugural lecture he referred to

* the patient research, conscientious zeal and elevated

tone which during twenty-five years characterized all
                                    '
his  doings within    these  walls    ;  and  he has  elsewhere ^

described him as ' an admirable man gifted with a real

scientific insight.'

Others, however, were less complimentary, and among

them, Carus, the Physician to the King of Saxony, in

that passage from his Travels, to which reference has

already been made.

   We have also visited the theatrum anatomicunt, the whole
arrangements of which brought back the times of Vesal to my

mind. Above the Professor's table hung a human skeleton,
and a figure showing the muscular conformation of the human
subject, so that they could be let down and drawn up again
by cords : the latter was that sort of preparation which Albin

   ^ Oxford and Modern Medicine. Kidd was the author, amongst
other works, of a Bridge water Treatise on The Adaptation of
External Nature to the Physical Condition of Man.
138  HENRY ACLAND                                       [1846-

was celebrated for, and is such as to cause a feeling of disgust
in an uninitiated spectator. All round the theatre, behind
the amphitheatrical seats of the audience, were skulls and

anatomical preparations, everything quite in the antique style.
Professor Kidd, a good-natured old gentleman, quite corre-
sponded with these ancient treasures. He may, probably,
formerly have had some talents, or at least some liking for

personal activity and inquiry. But, at a later period, without
any excitement from without in a University devoted almost

entirely to philology and theology (which is indeed no Univer-
sitas) and without sufficient inward power and excitement,
the stagnation of all philosophical study, of natural history,

soon put a stop to his activity.

   Thus whatever was done in Oxford in the way of

teaching anatomy was done not by the University but
by a college. Kidd, while retaining the Regius Pro-

fessorship and its concomitant offices, withdrew from
all active teaching, and abandoned the field to the Lee's

Reader, upon whose shoulders now rested the entire
burden of the anatomical and physiological studies of

the University. In November, 1845, Dr. Buckland had
been preferred to the Deanery of Westminster. With
it he held the living of Islip, a few miles out of Oxford,

and he kept on his Readerships, occasionally revisiting
the University to deliver a lecture. But the classes

which had once filled the Ashmolean to overflowing^

and followed their enthusiastic instructor to the top
of Shotover were scattered and gone. Dr. Daubeny,

whose zeal in scientific studies was untiring, and to
whose importunity the eventual establishment of the
Natural Science School was largely due, had failed to
obtain the success as a teacher which his energy and
devotion deserved. Neither in his Chemistry lectures,

where his demonstrations are said to have invariably

     ^ ' In Ashmole's ample dome, with looks sedate,
        Midst heads of Mammoths heads of houses sate :
        And Tutors, close with undergraduates jammed,

         Released from cramming waited to be crammed.'
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 139

gone wrong ^, nor in Botany, where he was unable or

unwilHng to descend to rudimentary teaching, did his

real merits succeed in attracting an audience from
among the undergraduates. He does not appear to
have done more than take an occasional pupil into his
Laboratory for experiment and instruction.

   It must be remembered that scientific pursuits at that

date, and for some years to come, found no place what-
ever in the authorized University course, and that there
was absolutely no means of practical work for students.
The Natural Science School did not yet exist; even

the most sanguine reformers scarcely aimed at more
than a recognition of the claim to impart the rudiments
of Natural Science to those who came to Oxford to be
educated. Neither the Classical nor the Mathematical

examinations gave much opportunity for turning to ac-
count in the schools that which the jargon of the day
termed 'useful knowledge.' The occupants of the

various chairs enumerated on a previous page were
made to feel that they stood outside the general current

of University thought and University interests. Nor in

the appointment to these Professorships was any special
qualification demanded ; it was held that any man of
ability could find time to master his subject, sufficiently
to give the very limited amount of instruction required,
after he had been elected to the Chair. Moreover the
methods of study, and the ways of thought which were
inculcated therefrom, were alien and distasteful not only
to the obscurantists who sought to prolong the torpor of
the eighteenth century, but to many of those who honestly
strove to raise the intellectual standard of the place.
The strongest influences in the University actively

discouraged the new learning. Of the sciences one was
already suspect in the eyes of the orthodox. Dean
Gaisford's well-known saying, ' Buckland is gone to
Italy, so thank God we shall have no more of this

Geology,' must have found response in many an anxious

                         ^ Tuckwell, Reminiscences, p. 32.
I40  HENRY ACLAND          [1846-

breast. Fortunately for Acland it had not yet been
revealed to the members of the Hebdomadal Board
that in the realms of Physiology and Comparative
Anatomy there lurked the germs of theories which were
to fan the odium theologicutn into a flame as fierce as

that kindled by any geological discovery.
   Early in his official career it had come to the know-

ledge of the new Lee's Reader that Dr. Pusey, then in
the zenith of his power and himself one of the Lee's
Trustees, had spoken strongly of the evils and dangers
of scientific studies. The great Tractarian had shown
much kindness to Acland in his undergraduate days, and

the latter resolved to put the case plainly and boldly

before one towards whom on pubhc and private grounds

he entertained a profound reverence. The interview

is best narrated in his own words.

   I see the scene as yesterday -- now forty-six years ago.
The great man sat, as I have since seen him a hundred times

and more, in an arm-chair to the west of the fire-place.

After a very few words explaining what I have written above ^,
I said : * I am come, Dr. Pusey, to ask you two questions, if

you will kindly allow me. First, is it true that you, Mr. Keble
and your friends seriously discourage the study of Natural
Science? I am told that this is certainly the case.' After
a litde pause :-- ' It is so. We notice that it engenders in
those we know a temper of irreverence and often of arrogance
inconsistent with a truly Christian character. You must allow
that, for instance, this is so with A. and B. and C. and others.'

 I was silent -- we sat on the chairs well known to all who

 have entered the study of the great and good man. Presently

 I continued :--

   ' Then, am I to understand that in proportion as I devote

 my life with earnestness to discharge the duties to which

 you, under Providence, have appointed me, I am to be held

 up as a dangerous and mischievous member of Society?*

    Dr. Pusey, as most great men, had a certain, even keen,
 sense of humour. He threw himself back in his chair in

     ^ See p. 133, supra.
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 141

a fit of laughter : soon he recovered himself and, sitting
straight upright, he slowly said in the solemn and almost
stern way which to many seemed his chief expression :--
'The desire to possess such knowledge and the power to
attain to it are alike the gift of God. They are to be used
as such. While you discharge your duties in that spirit you
may count on my assistance whenever you need it ^'

   How that assistance was rendered, and at what a
critical moment, the course of this narrative will show.

   It was not to be expected that the junior members of
the University would prosecute studies so unremunera-

tive from an academical standpoint. Dean Gaisford,
indeed, required all Christ Church undergraduates to
attend a course of Mechanical Philosophy under Pro-
fessor Walker, *a cheery gentleman who constructed
and exploded gases, forced mercury through wood
blocks in a vacuum, manipulated galvanic batteries,

magic lanterns, air-guns -.' At a later period this com-
pulsory attendance and the production at Collections
of an abstract of the lectures were relinquished. In
spite of the fact that half a dozen members of the House

were entitled to be admitted gratuitously to the lectures
of the Lee's Reader, they do not seem to have availed
themselves of the privilege to any large extent; nor
do the authorities appear to have enforced such attend-
ance. Dr. Kidd on resigning the Readership informed
his successor that his class then consisted of one or two
members of Christ Church, one pupil from the University,
and an occasional medical apprentice from the town.

    In his own evidence before the University Commis-
sioners five or six years later, Acland described his
pupils as ranging from twelve to twenty, mostly under-
graduates, but including the sons and apprentices of
 medical men, sometimes the medical men themselves,

    * The account given above is transcribed from a paper drawn
 up in 1891 for Canon Gore : it differs slightly and immaterially
 from the version contained in Pusey's Life, vol. iv, p. 331.

    ^ Tuckwell, Reminiscences, p. 41.
142         HENRY ACLAND                                                       [1846-

and other residents in the city who were not members

\of the University. Mr. Tuckwell vivacious as ever,

and himself one of the original class, writes as follows :

The lectures were delivered in the downstairs theatre,

whence we ascended to the room above to sit at tables

furnished with little railroads on which ran microscopes

charged with illustrations of the lecture, alternately with

trays of coffee. A few senior men came from time to time,

but could not force their minds into the new groove.

Dr. Ogle, applying his eye to the microscope, screwed a

quarter inch right through the object, and Dr. Kidd, after

examining some delicate morphological preparation, while

his young colleague explained the meaning, made answer

first, that he did not believe in and, secondly that                           were
I                                                                              a it if
                              ^.
                                        :                                         a it
                                                                            ;
                                                              it,                               a
true, he did not think God meant us to know it. So we

were mostly undergraduates and greatly we enjoyed lec-

tures, microscopes, and the discussions which Dr. Acland

encouraged

   His practice, as he told the Commissioners in 1851,
was as follows

     usually give two courses of lectures annually, each con-

taining from fifteen to twenty lectures besides several evenings

devoted to Histological demonstrations. The first course

treats usually of General Physiology, the second of Anatomy,

or sometimes run the subjects through the two courses by
I '*

                I

                                                            '
                                                                           a

                                                                   it
condensing one half in the first and expanding                                 in the

second or vice versa.

      Reminiscences, p. 45.
      'These last exercises,' continued Mr, Tuckwell, 'were after

time suppressed as endangering lapses into the "leve et ludicrum."
On one occasion, so fame reported, the men being invited to relate
instances of surprising animal instinct, was announced by an
imaginative student to the consternation of the Professor who did
not appreciate jokes, that he knew man whose sister had tame
jelly-fish which would sit up and beg.'

      think my readers will agree that this was hardly fair test
of Acland's appreciation of humour, and will feel inclined with
Mr. Pickwick to 'envy the facility with which Mr. Peter Magnus's

friends were amused.'
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 143

   In addition to Dr. Kidd and Dr. Ogle, Acland

mentions Church, afterwards Dean of St. Paul's, J. M.

Wilson, afterwards President of Corpus, and Charles
Marriott of Oriel as among the regular workers during
the long winter evenings, till ten or eleven o'clock, at his
practical classes in Histology and Embryology. The
hand of time has spared but few of those who were his
pupils in Christ Church lecture theatre, but the present

\Regius Professor of Medicine in the obituary notice of

his predecessor which he contributed to the Royal
Society, has summarized the impressions of such of
them as he was able to consult.

   They agree that his prelections were eminently suited to
awaken interest in biological science, and that the lecturer
was not only master of his subject, but was able to clothe in
attractive language anatomical details which had they been
less skilfully handled would have repelled his too fastidious
auditors.

   The late Charles Pearson, who was for a time his
cHnical clerk at the Radcliffe Infirmary, describes him
as ' an elegant and suggestive lecturer, but too pre-
occupied to give any real instruction in anatomy and
physiology.' Technical instruction to fit the learner
for medical practice was never contemplated, it should
be pointed out, by Dr. Lee, and was expressly disclaimed
by his Reader. Pearson adds that Acland 'turned us
loose into the Christ Church Museum, with directions
to study the preparations, and with a cupboard full of
unarticulated human bones to assist us in practical
anatomy. Altogether we learned no more about the
bones of the human body in those four months than an
ordinary grinder would have taught us in a fortnight ;
but we learnt something about first principles and
analogies which is not commonly taught in the medical
class-room.'

   Another of his early pupils has described him to the

                          ^ Sir John Burdon-Sanderson.
144  HENRY ACLAND                                                                             [1846-

present writer as being good and clear as a lecturer,
while insisting that his real strength lay in the formation,
arrangement, and classification of his osteological collec-
tions. It was from these collections that the present

University Museum, together with all that it imports, was
to spring. The arrival in Oxford of the fourteen cases
of skeletons and dissections referred to on a former page
marked the beginning of a new epoch in that ancient seat
of learning. During the thirteen years for which Acland's

tenure of the Readership extended the collection grew,
till it occupied a whole series of rooms and comprised

over 1,700 anatomical preparations. In J. G. Wood\

afterwards well known as the successful lecturer and

popularizer of Natural History, and then an under-

graduate at Merton, he found an enthusiast whose
skilful fingers were of the highest use in minute dis-

section. A still more invaluable assistant had ac-

companied him from Edinburgh in the person of
Mr. Charles Robertson, whose whole life has been

devoted to the service of science in the University,
who has been the friend of generations of students,

and is still unwearied in his attendance at the Museum

and in the fulfilment of those tasks which have earned

him a reputation far beyond the walls of Oxford ^.
   It was from the lips of Richard Owen and under the

inspiration of the great Hunterian collection in the
College of Surgeons that Acland had received his first
lessons in Comparative Anatomy. And the arrangement
of his cases and specimens at Christ Church followed

   ^ Mr. Wood was the son of a surgeon who lived in a house at
the corner of Holywell facing Broad Street, which has long since
been pulled down to make room for the Indian Institute.

      Robertson was only boy of twelve when he first attracted
Acland's attention at Edinburgh. During the early Oxford days
he was practically member of his household, and he still remains

 Charlie Robertson to the family. At later date he became
Aldrichian Demonstrator in Anatomy, and 'coach' for the

Science Schools, and his case of zoological preparations gained
   medal at the Exhibition of 1862.
a*

     ''
                                         a
                                                   '

                                                 a
                                                                                a
                                                                                           a
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 145

the plan with which he had been famiharized in
Edinburgh as well as in London-- the Hunterian classi-
fication, by which the parts of the animal body are
grouped according to their uses.

   * The aim of John Hunter/ he wrote, ' was to illustrate
the entire processes and causation of all disease by the
complete study of every attainable organism, animal or
vegetable, extinct or recent, in every stage of develop-
ment, and in every condition normal or abnormal.' And
in his Synopsis of the Physiological Series in the Christ
Church Museum, published in 1853, Acland set forth

the principles which had guided him, and expounded
the philosophic views which such an arrangement
was calculated to introduce to the student. Visitors
to the University Museum, whither his work was trans-
ferred in i86t, will search in vain for the Hunterian

\collection as it left the hands of Acland and Rolleston

The arrangement has been altered totally and radically.
The most valuable of the preparations are still to be
seen there, but the collection is a Hunterian collection
no longer. The old Comparative Anatomy has given
place to the new 'Animal Morphology,' and the change
was only one of the many which Acland lived to see
 made among the ideals of his manhood.

   The formation of the collection was attended by
various little vexations, of which in after years Acland
was able to see the humorous side. His troubles with
the Custom House have already been recounted. The

 accommodation in Christ Church, both for research and
 storage, was limited. Dr. Pusey allowed his stables to
be used for the preparation and preservation of the
 anatomical specimens. But unfortunately they abutted
 on those of another of the canons. Dr. Godfrey Faussett,
who was less gracious. The smells resulting from the
labours of the Reader and his assistants were dis-
agreeable to the delicate olfactory nerves of the Canon's

 coachman, and were pronounced by that functionary to

                        ^ His successor as Lee's Reader.
146            HENRY ACLAND                                [1846-

be injurious to the horses. A peremptory notice to

remove the bones was issued by the Canon, but before

it could be compHed with a raid was made by his
servants and the offending preparations were thrown
into the street. Dr. Faussett was appealed to, but, though
himself one of the Lee's trustees, he replied in such terms
as to create the impression that the action of the servants

was, at the least, condoned by the master. Redress
there was none; but the following letter from Dr. Pusey
should be put on record to the credit of the capitular
body:

   I am very sorry indeed for these angry and unjustifiable
proceedings of Dr. F. I shall remonstrate with him. It

would not be right in me to do anything which would be an
inconvenience to my neighbours in point of smell, &c. ; but

I hope that you will make any use of my stables for any

purpose connected with the Museum which cannot affect

Dr. F.'s horses and men. It is very stupid for people to

lose their tempers, but worse for old men and clergymen.

   In your first note you admit that a horse may have been
injured. This I suppose could hardly have been. I will
return the letters when I have written mine to Dr. F., but
I want to see Clark, who has had the care of my stables.
Marriott tells me that you require a change. I hope that
the beautiful air of Sark will do you good. It is, I think,
the finest air I know, and letters used to be only twice

a week'.

  A more serious interference with his labours resulted

from the action of the trustees as a body. He had, as
we have already seen, instituted a practical course of

^ Among the objects which perished in the raid was the tail of a

giraffe then macerating in water ; the dogs ran away with and
               is

                     a
                                                                                           it,

                                                                                             it
could not be recovered. The tail of the specimen now at the

Oxford Museum  plaster cast, made from the one in the

College of Surgeons to supply the deficiency caused by this act

of vandalism. Acland's giraffe had been obtained from the

authorities of the Zoo. But one can imagine that the odours

wafted into Dr. Faussett's stables were somewhat pungent.
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 147

Histology and Embryology, such as was, at that time,
scarcely to be found in any of the English Medical
Schools. His object was to teach men to study for

themselves, by dissecting with them, and by demon-

strating to them the animal textures generally, from such

specimens, human or otherwise, as he could procure.
These demonstrations lasted for three or four hours at

a time, and entailed much sustained and exacting labour
on the part of the teacher. But it was suggested to the
trustees that they were not in accordance with the will
of the founder -- for one reason, on the ground that they
were not 'lectures.' The Lee's Reader was informed
that he must keep within the four corners of that docu-

ment, or otherwise the trustees would be unable to

continue his salary^. The deviation from the terms
of the will by which dissection of corpora mortuorum

had been dropped would suggest that the trustees had

a wider discretion than they cared to exercise ; but

Acland always declared that Dean Gaisford had per-

suaded himself that the 'demonstrations' were not
lectures, and acted most reluctantly. Liddell, who was
now Head Master of Westminster, wrote to him sym-

pathetically and practically:

  I am grieved                                                                  Oct. 23, 1850.

against a brick  to hear that you have again run your head
                 wall -- to wit, the Chapter of Ch. Ch. . . .

Look at the advertisement of the Cambridge Anatomical

Professor's Lectures in the Times of this day, and see

whether by adopting a notice of similar kind you could not

satisfy their demands and give your lectures ex sententia

tua ; for I presume you think that you fulfil the purpose of

your lectures in spirit.

   Acland, however, convinced though he was that these
demonstrations not only encouraged the study of anatomy
but furthered the intentions of the founder's will, was

   ^ The salary for one half-year actually was stopped, and in order
to earn it Acland had to give an additional course of formal
lectures.

                                          L2
148  HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

restrained by the ' dead hand/ and the course was dis-
continued.

   His first anatomical assistant at the Museum had been
Dr. Melville of Galway, whom, like Robertson, he had
imported from Edinburgh. Melville was a man to whose

ability, industry, and scientific power he never ceased to
testify, but he was not an easy person to work with. In
the course of 1847 he left Oxford, and his place was
taken by Mr. Lionel Beale, with whom Acland formed

a life-long friendship. To him succeeded in September,
1849, Victor Carus, for many years * Professor Extra-
ordinarius' of Comparative Anatomy at Leipzig, and
then a fellow student of Max Miiller, through whose
instrumentality he was brought to England. In his
Leipzig home Professor Carus never ceased to cherish
the memory of those far-off days, and in a letter to the
present writer dated February 19, 1902, he refers to the
many tokens of practical sympathy which he received at
the hands both of Mrs. Acland and her husband, ' the

kindest, most regardful, sympathetic, industrious, clear-

sighted, noble-hearted man.' Laudari a laudato viro!
'At my very entrance on the Museum work I was led

to admire the judicious, grand, far-seeing way in which

he had organized that dear old place, laying thereby
the foundation of what, chiefly by his endeavours, has
grown out to that magnificent new Museum of which
Oxford has a right to be proud ^'

   In 1851 Carus returned to Germany, and he was suc-
ceeded at the Museum by a young Oxford graduate who
is now Sir William Church, President of the Royal
College of Physicians. Two years previously, however,
he had been dispatched, together with ' Chariie' Robert-

son, on a prolonged expedition to the Scilly Islands to

dredge and dissect.
   * Dredging,' Acland wrote long afterwards, ' was then

a comparatively new thing, inspired by the rare genius

   ^ Professor Carus ' gently fell asleep ' on March 16, 1903, while
these pages were being revised for the Press.
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 149

of Edward Forbes ; but it was intended by me both for

purposes of zoological research and to get material
                             I  then thought that " Rennel's
for the  anatomical series.     might have established sub-
branch                       "
         of the Gulf Stream

tropical forms on our coast, and that they might be found

by these zealous workers \' The practical result of the

expedition is to be found in Carus's System der tierischen

Morphologie.

   We have seen on a previous page something of the

frame of mind in which Acland entered upon his Oxford

duties. The success which had attended his lectures,

the encouragement afforded by many whose opinion he

had just reason for valuing, the signs that theology no

longer monopolized the intellect of the University, all

contributed to urge him on in the course which he had

marked out for himself. In 1847 the British Association
came to Oxford. He was appointed local secretary, and

threw himself into the work with characteristic energy
and thoroughness. The meeting brought him into

pleasant and intimate relations with many men of emi-

nence; some of them, hke Richard Owen and Bunsen,

old friends ; others, such as Joseph Henry Green, Milne

Edwards, Van der Hoven, Faraday and Hooker, who
were hitherto known to him only by name. In allotting

the accommodation for the visitors Pusey, absent himself

from Oxford, placed his house at Acland's disposal, and

some half-dozen of the leading scientists and doctors

of medicine enjoyed the hospitality of Christ Church

for the week.

This gathering gave occasion for much talk as to

the deficiencies of scientific training in England and

the discouragement which it had long encountered at

Oxford. The time seemed ripe for at least a tentative

step towards the enlargement of the University studies,

and the admission of science to a recognized position in
the scheme of a liberal education. To Acland's mind

the prehminary to any system of practical instruction

               ' Oxford and Modern Medicine, p. 21,
I50  HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

lay in bringing together under one roof the various
departments of physical science scattered over Oxford.
In concert with the three or four men who were with
himself engaged in the work of tuition he drew up the
following memorandum, which he afterwards described
as the origin of the Oxford Museum :

                                                          Oxford, Jvily 12, 1847.
   We, the undersigned, being officially connected with
various institutions for the advancement of natural know-

ledge in this University, are of opinion that the several
collections contained in the Clarendon, the Ashmolean
Museum, the Anatomical Museum in Christ Church, are

deposited in rooms of inadequate dimensions and incon-
venient arrangement, and that their present efficiency and

future progress are by these means retarded.
   Believing that the future welfare of the University is

intimately connected with the progress of all her institutions,
we are desirous of furthering such steps as may tend to the
erection of an edifice within the precincts of the University
for the better display of materials illustrative of the facts and

laws of the natural world.

   And in connexion with such an edifice we should re-
commend that there should be one or more lecture-rooms

arranged in a manner suited to demonstrative lectures, and
an apartment calculated to serve the purpose of a library and

place for scientific meetings as occasion may require.

   We earnestly commend this to the consideration of those
who are interested in the future welfare of Oxford, and we

shall be grateful for their opinions and advice as to future

proceedings on this subject.

   To this document were appended the signatures of
Charles Daubeny, Professor of Chemistry and Botany ;
P. B. Duncan, Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum;
Robert Walker, Reader in Experimental Philosophy ;
Henry Wentworth Acland, Lee's Reader in Anatomy.
One name was wanting, that of the only member of the
body officially connected with the advancement of natural
knowledge in Oxford who enjoyed a European repu-

tation, the Reader in Geology. Dean Buckland was
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 151

non-resident, but he had not altogether ceased to lecture.
The magnificent series of geological specimens, charts,
sections, and engravings, eventually bequeathed by him
to the University, was stored in the Clarendon Buildings,
and formed one of those very collections on behalf of
which the appeal was put forward. Acland had known
him from boyhood, had attended his lectures, and was on
terms of friendly correspondence with him. It was with
some confidence that he enclosed to one whom he re-
garded as their revered chief the gravamen of the science
teachers in Oxford. But the veteran had shot his bolt
and could not be brought back to the colours. After
a few kindly words of congratulation on the birth of
Acland's eldest boy, the Dean proceeded to pour the
coldest of cold water on the aspirations of the reformers :

   Some years ago I was sanguine as you are now as to the
possibility of Natural History making some progress in Oxford,
but I have long come to the conclusion that it is utterly
hopeless. The idle part of the young men will do nothing,
and the studious portion will throw their attention into the
channel of honours and profits which can alone be gained
by the staple subjects of examination for degrees and

fellowships.

   At present it is a detriment to a candidate for either to
have given any portion of his time and attention to objects
so alien from what is thought to be the proper business of
the University as Natural History in any of its branches.

   I therefore return the paper, which I think it would be

useless mockery to put my name to.

   The blow was complete and crushing, the more so that
on further pressure the Dean refused to bring the matter
before his personal friend Sir Robert Peel. Without
the name of Buckland the memorial was doomed, nor
could his want of sympathy, to put it in the mildest way,
remain a secret. The paper was withdrawn, but the
unexpected rebuff made an ineffaceable impression on
Acland's mind. In his own words, there was nothing
to be done but * work and wait.'
152  HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

   The period of inaction was not destined to be a long
one. The new leaven had already worked to such
purpose that the creation of an Honour School in Natural
Science at the final examination had come within the
region of practical poHtics. In November, 1848, Acland
published some Remarks on the Extension of Education
at the University of Oxford, in a Letter to the Rev. W.
Jacobson, Regius Professor of Divinity and Canon of
Christ Church, Oxford. Dr. Jacobson, afterwards Bishop
of Chester, was a prominent personage among the forces
of University Liberalism, and was an active supporter of
Mr. Gladstone in his electoral battles. He was more-
over an old friend of Acland's family, and had been

private tutor to his eldest brother during the latter's

undergraduate days.
   The points which the writer strove, in his letter, to

impress on the members of Convocation, with whom
the establishment of the new school would ultimately

rest, were two in number :
   (i) ' The duty of introducing the elements of certain

branches of natural knowledge into the list of studies
necessary for all persons taking the degree of Bachelor
of Arts.

   (2) ' The necessity of a reconsideration of our re-
sponsibilities and prospects as a University having
the privilege of granting degrees in medicine and giving

licence to practise.'

   It will be more convenient to discuss the latter topic
at a later stage, in connexion with Acland's attitude
towards the study of medicine at Oxford, premising that

he expressly repudiated ' the erroneous but prevalent
opinion ' that the sciences in which Oxford professed
to give instruction belonged solely to the department of
medicine. On the general question of Natural Science

his primary contention was that, 'whether it be or be

not our duty to provide against our graduates leaving
the University in utter ignorance of the first principles
of those great laws which are imposed on the material
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 153

world, it ts a duty to make some reasonable use, in
respect of education, of the foundations we have accepted
and now possess for the furtherance of knowledge in
Anatomy, Botany, Chemistry, Natural Philosophy,
Geology, &c.' And he enunciated the proposition, from
which he never swerved, that ' the real value of the

foundations of which I speak arises wholly from the

service they perform for general liberal education and
not for detailed professional instruction.'

   Much of the argument of this little pamphlet would
ill bear reproduction to-day, for it has passed into the
realm of truism :

   Any man really anxious for the full development of the
mental powers of his pupils is doing himself and them a
serious disservice, nay (considering the station of many
educated here) an injury to his country, who does not set
himself to ascertain what is the most feasible method of
adding to the study of Language, Logic, History, and Reli-
gion, the study of the general nature of the planet in which
he is placed, and of the material conditions under which his
work of probation is to be performed.

  A general insight into natural laws, he maintained,

was ennobling ; and he referred effectively to the second
volume of Modern Pamfers which was then creating
a profound sensation at Oxford. Moreover, even an
elementary acquaintance with the laws of Natural Philo-
sophy, Chemistry, and Physiology was not without its
practical use to the lawyer, the country gentleman, and
the clergyman :

   'That is very true,' I hear it said ; 'but all men have not

inclination or taste for these things.* ' Have all men for

Logic or Euclid?* 'But they have no time.* 'Well, they
spend three years here ; and I propose three courses of

lectures to be attended, no one exceeding twenty-four
lectures. Could they not find twenty-four hours a year for
this purpose, and some three hours for reading or for the

study of museums after each lecture ? If the elements of
154  HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

these objects help to enlarge their minds, to raise their
thoughts, to train their faculties, cannot the length of a single
day for demonstrative lectures, and some two or three for
reading, be added yearly to the working hours they now

have?
   'And just as the most detailed instruction is not necessarily

philosophical, so elementary teaching need not be super-
ficial. Some men are always superficial, and some never;
and some laws which in the advance and progress of
human knowledge were not reached for some thousands of
years, may be made to reveal themselves in a short and
simple way, and to leave an impress never to be effaced from
any mind capable of receiving it.'

   Acland did not shrink from asking that attendance at

such lectures should be made compulsory, nor from
requiring a reproduction before examiners of the matter
thus learned as a condition for the acquisition of the
B.A. degree. Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, Physiology
should all be essential, and not more than one course

should be taken in any one term, nor need the examina-
tion be at the same time as those for * Little Go ' or
the Final Schools. The requirements for Passmen need
not be severe, but the possession of a * testamur ' in
each subject ought to be rigorously enforced.

  If Honours are to be obtained for proficiency in such know-

ledge there is no fear but that many will seek and obtain
them. Men distinguished for such knowledge will soon find
Fellowships open to them ; the teachers will not so much com-
plain of necessary idleness ; and at least some men (I am not
Utopian enough to say all or even most) will leave the place
with an awakened curiosity and general habits of industry,

who under the present confined system learn nothing with
interest, remember little of what they have learnt, and then in

later life abuse us for not doing our duty.

   Acland's dream has been in part fulfilled, but much
of it still remains a counsel of perfection. When sending
a copy of the pamphlet to a friend in 1896 he wrote in
it : * I thought you wished to look at the fossil letter to
i853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 155

Dr. Jacobson. It has some interest still as a milestone/
That it excited interest and even enthusiasm among
thoughtful minds is apparent from the following letter

from Charles Newton, fresh from two months' patient
work among the statues of Florence, Rome, and Naples :

 ... British Museum, Jan. 2, 1849.
           I can appreciate the value of your proposed

General and Semi-professional Education to precede the

more practical instruction of the hospitals, because I have
above all men from Oxford been placed in circumstances

analogous to those which are the conditions under which

the young medical student is trained. When I began my
career at the British Museum I found myself suddenly intro-

duced to a world of new objects at once attractive and dis-
tracting, requiring the most minute and painful attention of
the senses, the most subtle mental analysis, the most un-
wearied scrutiny before they could be received in evidence --
long and earnest contemplation before they could be finally
arranged in scientific order; and yet all these objects presented
to the mind, not methodically as a teacher or a good elementary
treatise would have presented them, but in the order of
official business, which is practically for us here no order at
all. What would have become of me without a framework,
however slight, of general education? How should I have

steered my way on that wide and unknown ocean without
some previous knowledge of the general principles of navi-
gation? The history of the Alexandrian and Byzantine
literature will best answer that question. Learned men were
first turned loose in great public libraries, but having no great
guiding principle of selection and arrangement they became
mere triflers and pedants.

   But to return to your pamphlet. Pray let me know if you
want a vote in Convocation at any time to carry out your
views. And have you taken any steps to lay your pamphlet

before Lord John Russell and Lord Lansdowne? If you

have not, I think, perhaps, I can manage this for you, though
I daresay you have better avenues to approach them by.

   The project for the institution of Examination Schools
in Law and Modern History and in Natural Science
156                 HENRY ACLAND  [1846-

had long been germinating, and Acland's letter to

Dr. Jacobson had no small share in hastening on its
accomplishment, though he would have been the last
to deny to Dr. Daubeny full credit for years of patient
and insistent effort in the same direction. In February,

1849, notice was given to Convocation of the proposed
constitution of a Delegacy for the appointment of

Examiners in Mechanical Philosophy, Chemistry, and

Physiology. To the notice were appended the names

of those whom the Heads of Houses-- the Hebdomadal

Board in which was vested the right of initiative in
all University matters-- proposed as members of the

Delegacy, and Acland was not among them. Con-

sidering that the only anatomical and physiological

lectures delivered in the University were given by the

Lee's Reader, and that the portion of the new statute

dealing with the Natural Science School was drawn

on the lines so recently laid down by him in print, such

an omission could scarcely be constructed otherwise

than as a direct slight. And the mortification was the

more intentional from the fact that Acland's name had

originally been included, but had been erased by the

Hebdomadal Board.

   He at once (Feb. 13, 1849) dispatched a letter to the
Vice-Chancellor, the Rev. Frederick Plumptre, Master

of University, in which he ventured, 'as one of the

public teachers in the University, to put to you a

question concerning a detail in the construction of the
              '
new  statute
                 :

   The only instruction in Anatomy or Physiology publicly
given in the University for many years past has been given
by Dr. Lee's Reader in Dr. Lee's theatre ; the only anatomical
or physiological collection in the University is in his keeping.

May I be allowed to ask whether, under the circumstances, it

is intended that he shall not be a member of the Board con-
nected with the School of Natural Philosophy ?

Dr. Plumptre's reply is a perfect specimen of that
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 157

courtly Mandarin logic which, perhaps more than any-

thing else, makes a young and ardent reformer feel as if
he would like to go out and hang himself:

My dear Dr. Acland,             Univ. Coll., Feb. 17, '49.

    I am sincerely sorry that a succession of engagements

should not have allowed me an opportunity of returning an

earlier answer to your letter.

In answer to your inquiry why the name of Dr. Lee's

Reader in Anatomy is not included in the list of those official

persons who are to nominate the Examiners for the School of

Natural Science, I ought to state that the sole reason is

         is,
                       is
that he         strictly speaking, not University Professor
                                a
or Reader. He                                          is

                                                       is
                           not appointed by the University, and

he must give his lectures in the Museum, which not the

property of the University, and this Readership not under

the control of the University.

It  was felt by some that those only should constitute the

Board who are strictly University Professors or Readers.
And the name of Dr. Lee's Reader was accordingly omitted

from the list.

                           Believe me, yours very truly,

                                F. C. Plumptre, V. C.

The full irony of the situation will be appreciated on

referring to the number of strictly University Pro-
                It
                                                                   '
                                                                                                   a
fessors or Readers' in Natural Science given on

previous page, and to the summary of the share taken

by them in University teaching. Acland replied dryly

that he was much obliged for the Vice-Chancellor's kind

answer, and for the information of the grounds on

which Lee's Reader in Anatomy was not included on

the Board.      ought, however, in fairness to the Vice-

Chancellor, to be added that the prime objector was the

Dean of Christ Church himself, who was unwilhng to

give the University any pretext for interference in the

operation of Dr. Lee's trusts.

The new examination statute came into existence in
158         HENRY ACLAND                                   [1846-

1850 ^ and the first examination under it was held in the
Easter Term of 1853, the University Commission having
sat and reported in the interim. Acland was the
examiner in the Physiological Section. The post had
been pressed upon him very earnestly by Lake, after-
wards Dean of Durham, and then Tutor of Balliol and
Senior Proctor. He had strongly disapproved of some
of the arrangements of the School, from the discussion
of which he had been excluded, and he felt that the
studies necessary for the adequate discharge of his duty
as examiner would impose a tax upon his time incon-
sistent with his practice as a physician. Accordingly,

in the first instance he declined the offer, though he
willingly drew up, at Lake's request, a statement of what
he was prepared to recommend as a first essay in the
Physiological Examination ; and he wrote to him at

large with respect to the new School :

   I wish to remark concerning the proposed plan for the

Physiological Examination that any such will require tact
and experience before the precise limits can be determined
which should be set to the minimum or pass examination, or

before the extent can be decided to which the qualification
for the highest honours in Physiology may be pushed with

advantage.

            a
                      a
                                                                  is,

                                                                                            ;
What is chiefly important to the University                that the

Passmen should possess fair amount of general knowledge

such as will ensure moderate understanding of the broad

laws which have been appointed to organized beings and

that the Classmen should show more or less proficiency in
the methods by which the knowledge of these laws has been
gained, so that the best men may have some knowledge of
original memoirs and of the means of investigating nature for

themselves.

   With respect to the Classmen, may also be remarked
that would have been far better that the University should
^

   It it
                                                       it
never have founded this School at all than that doubts should

         also introduced the intermediate School of Moderations both
for Passmen and Classmen.
1853] EARLY STRUGGLES FOR SCIENCE 159

exist or questions should be raised concerning the value of
the Honours conferred in Natural Science at Oxford ; and it
must be clearly understood that a first class man in Chemistry
or in Physiology must have gone through such a course of
study and passed such an examination in Chemistry or in
Physiology as shall entitle him to similar estimation among
chemists or physiologists as that in which a first class man in
Classics is held among men of letters.

   Acland was begged to reconsider his decision, and
on finding that the refusal of Dr. Ogle to examine in
Physiology placed the Board in a real difficulty, he con-
sented to act in conjunction v^^ith Dr. Daubeny and the
Rev. Robert Walker.

   The immediate result was not encouraging. Though
the School * Scientiae Naturalis ' followed the example
of the older examinations in providing four classes, the
examiners were unable at the initial trial to find any
one worthy of Honours. In the Michaelmas Term they
were more successful, and a third class was awarded to
Mr. G. G. Ross. Acland may well have felt that his
time was being withdrawn from his profession without
due justification, and he retired from the Board, his place
being taken by Dr. Ogle, now appeased. In Easter,
1854, the examiners were able to award three first
classes and a second ; and though in the next term the
Honours List was again a blank, the tide had turned.
The School began slowly to assert itself\ and to take
an acknowledged place in the course of University
study; while the infusion of new blood among those
engaged in the teaching of Natural Science brought
Story-Maskelyne and John Philhps upon the scene
as examiners.

   ^ It ought to be added that Acland always maintained that the
number of men in the class-list was no fair criterion of the work
being done, and that many men went through a course of study in
Natural Science without caring to present themselves before the
examiners, especially in the days after the New Museum had
come into existence.
i6o HENRY ACLAND

   But there were still serious obstacles which militated
against the success of the new School, and of the studies
of which it was the outcome. Those only who had
previously obtained Honours in Classics or Mathematics
were allowed to present themselves for examination.
There was not yet, nor for many years to come, any
indication of willingness on the part of the colleges to

make distinction in this new field a passport to a
Fellowship, or to allow their promising members to
stray into these unfruitful pastures. The very moderate
success-- to put it delicately -- of the Oriental Language
School at Oxford, and of certain new Triposes at
Cambridge, will serve to show the difficulties which
beset the early years of any academical innovation.
And it was apparent from the beginning, and became
more and more obvious every day, that science teach-
ing in Oxford would be futile for practical purposes
until the several departments of Physical Science were
gathered together under one roof, with fitting apparatus

and with appropriate surroundings. The next step was
the conversion of the University to the need of providing
a building for the prosecution of the new studies on a

scale adequate to its wealth and its traditions.
                 CHAPTER VII

HOME LIFE-PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCES
                    --THE CHOLERA

                                         1847-1856

   In the October of 1847 the Aclands had migrated
from Merton Lane to the house in Broad Street which
was to be their home for the remainder of their Hves.
It had belonged to Dr. Wootton, to whose practice
Acland had succeeded ; and after taking a lease of it for
a term of years, the latter purchased the freehold and

proceeded to enlarge it in accordance with his rapidly-

growing requirements. For while the Lee's Reader

had been engrossed in the labours and struggles
recorded in the last chapter, his practice, both in Oxford
and in the neighbourhood, had been increasing by leaps
and bounds. In the memory of the present generation
Acland figures as the dignified head of the medical
profession in Oxford, the venerable doyen whose
attendance on Pusey and Jowett during their last
hours was rather a tribute of long friendship than the

visit of a physician. It is difficult for them to realize,

and it has been largely forgotten, that for a quarter
of a century Acland possessed the largest consulting
practice in Oxfordshire, and was probably the hardest-
worked man in the University. The railway service
was very imperfectly developed, and Abingdon and
 Bicester and Dorchester and Ewelme, to name only
a few of the places on his list, had to be reached by
 long carriage-drives. Seventy miles a day was no
 unusual journey, and often it was not till four o'clock
 in the afternoon that he began his country rounds.

    I was not home till midnight (he wrote to his father),

                                                              M
i62          HENRY ACLAND                                 [1847-

so you had no Christmas letter. The days of adventure not

being quite over, I had to go by cross-roads to the riverside

near Lechlade in a thick fog, to break a boat through the

ice in the pitch dark, and on, through slush, a mile and a half
             called ' Chimney -- God              *
to  a  farm                           help  us  !    the  latter  being

an expression of the difficulty of reaching it. There was

a farm of eighty cows, and the primitive farmer thought £15
a great price for a bull, I got back in time to hear Pergolesi's

Gloria in Excelsis sung at Magdalen as the clock struck

twelve.

   And some years later he recounts another of his
nocturnal drives:

    I had the whole night out, and am only just back at 8 a.m.

I had to go round by Thame. Near Waterstock, it being

a most violent and boisterous night, the horses got frightened,

and without hurting any thing or body or themselves much,

landed the whole party, i.e. carriage, themselves, Whitlock

and me, on a bank. They set off next, and Whitlock groan-

ing and sighing worse than Dr. Stokes, and the rain pelting,

we walked after them, caught them in about a mile, knocked

up the Ashhursts, and got between     some sheets for two or
three hours, then in here by eight.
                                      I am only sorry for the
scrimmage because I am so busy.

   Among the county families who desired a 'second
opinion' he stood practically without a rival. In the

members of the University, both undergraduates and
dons, and even in the charmed circle of the 'heads' and

professors, he had an ever-growing circle of patients.
But with the townspeople, the tradesmen, and the
poorer classes of the neighbourhood generally, his
influence became unique. His kindness and uncon-

ventionality in attending the poor won their absolute

devotion ; while his dignity, his gentleness, and his

extreme sympathy impressed those who consulted him,
utterly irrespective of their station in life. On many an
afternoon his waiting-room would be so full of patients
that an overflow into the dining-room was rendered

necessary. There were frequent cases after he had
1856]        HOME LIFE                           163

become Physician to the Radchffe Infirmary^ when

poor people suffered serious injury by waiting for his

day with the out-patients ; and the part which he played
during the terrible cholera visitations of 1849 ^^^ 1^54
gave him a position as the head of the medical profession
in Oxford which he never lost.

   His probationary period as a student had been much
shorter than is usually the case ; much of his time, as

we have seen, had been occupied with studies of an
abstract nature ; and he had never filled any of those
posts of responsibility connected with a great hospital
which are generally considered as an essential qualifica-
tion for success in any branch of medicine. Yet from
his first beginning at Oxford till pressure of outside
work rendered it impossible for him to treat his medical
practice as the main interest of his life, he had his hands
more than full ; and even now the elder citizens will tell

inquirers that their first recollection of Dr. Acland is

bound up with his reputation as the most successful
physician in the city. As it was put only the other
day, ' No one of any respectability thought of dying
without seeing Dr. Acland ' -- a double-edged compli-

ment which the doctor would have been the first to

appreciate.

But it would be idle to deny that there were extraneous

circumstances which told largely in his favour. No one

at all resembling Henry Acland had ever practised

medicine in Oxford before, and it is extremely unlikely

that any one of quite the same stamp ever will

again. Allusion has been made on a former page to
                                                           '
Mr. Tuckwell's sketch of ' Aesculapius  in  the  Thirties    ;

and though it is not difficult to detect the hand of

a caricaturist, there is a large substratum of reality in

the description. Oxford has never been wanting in

skilful, accomplished, and devoted surgeons and physi-

cians ; and many of the innovations introduced by

Acland have become part of the ordinary environment

             1 In 1847.
                   M2
t64  henry ACLAND  [1847-

of the modern man of medicine. But he was the first

of the new school, the first who broke down the Httle
etiquettes and formahties and mannerisms which lent
themselves to cheap satire and brought ridicule on
a noble profession. When it was known that Dr. Woot-
ton's successor had been seen rowing his wife and
children on the river in boating costume, there was
a shaking of heads at such a lowering of professional
dignity. When it was announced that he was going to
deliver in the Town Hall a popular physiological lecture

of the University Extension type, he was threatened

with social and professional ostracism ^. A man of

weaker character or less assured position might have
yielded to the remonstrances of his professional brethren
or suffered from their resentment. Acland did neither.

A member of one of the oldest families in the West,

with the prestige of two such foundations as Christ

Church and All Souls to back him, the intimate friend

of the Parliamentary representatives of the University,
the disciple and protege of the leading men of science
in Europe, himself the exponent of the new learning
which was winning an entry into the citadel of con-

servatism, he could afford to go his own way regardless

of criticism and remonstrance.

   But birth and breeding and influential friends were

only a few among the advantages which fortune had

bestowed on Henry Acland. A striking and stately

  ^ In 1847 Alderman Sadler invited Professor Baden Powell,
Dr. Daubeny, and Acland to deliver lectures in the Town Hall on
Natural Science. And among his most carefully cherished auto-
graphs, side by side with letters from Gladstone and Lord Robert
Cecil, is the ill-spelt outpouring of gratitude on the part of an
employe at Swindon Station ' for the kind and courteous manner

you evinced towards me and those that were with me on that
never-to-be-forgotten day of our visit ' to Oxford and to the Christ

Church Museum. 'Sir Walter Scott,' the writer adds, 'was in

Oxford a week, and said he was quite confused with so many
sights : if he was confused in a week, what must we have been in
a day ? '
1856]  HOME LIFE  165

presence, a courtly and graceful manner which inspired
confidence and affection, a look which was genial, alert,
and almost boyish in its breezy cheerfulness --all these
contributed to bring the healthiest of atmospheres into

the sick-room or the anxious household. Some are still
left who can write of his unwearied, his unending kind-
ness, of his patience and his sympathy, of many a dying
pillow smoothed by his hand, of many a prayer whispered
over the death-bed. In diseases of the body as well as
of the mind there are times when the personality of the

doctor is as important an element as his skill.

   It is not to be supposed that Acland's place in the
medical world at Oxford was won without heart-burning
and jealousies on the part of those who were distanced
in the race. His letters show that he was acutely

sensitive to what he could not ignore, and to sayings

and doings which were all the more painful from the

friendly relations which had long subsisted between
himself and many of his rivals. They have passed

happily into obhvion, though at more than one period
he was made to suffer not only personal annoyance but
serious hindrance in his Oxford work. Not the least

of his difficulties arose from the practice, which still
held good in the rural districts, of paying the doctor

not per visit but by the drugs which he ordered and
supplied. One of his patients was a retired officer

living near Islip ; after consultation with the local
practitioner, whom we will call Mr. D., he drew up
a trifling prescription of opium pills and observed
a look of dismay on his colleague's countenance. It
was borne in upon him that the latter's fee would

be derived from the drugs prescribed, and he charitably
added some harmless medicaments for which it would
be possible to make a remunerative charge. On

showing the complete prescription to the patient, he
advised him to take only the pills, and he -explained
the presence of the latter incongruous items by saying

that they were for ' poor old D.' ; and he added, ' I find
i66  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

that you pay Mr. D. in proportion to the amount of
medicine he can persuade you to swallow, and don't
give him anything for driving over here six miles and
giving you advice.' The hint was taken for the future.
On another occasion, when he had disregarded the
pocket of the local doctor, he was told, ' When we send
for a physician from Oxford we expect the prescription
to come to at least a guinea; this comes to eighteen-
pence ' : and he was never called in again in the injured
gentleman's district. Acland ultimately succeeded in
breaking down the practice, and putting the payment of

medical men on a proper footing.
   In 1847 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society,

and he acted, as we have seen, as local Secretary of the
British Association on their visit to Oxford. In 1848
he took his Oxford degree as Doctor of Medicine, and
in the following year he was admitted a Fellow of the
Royal College of Physicians. In 1851 he was elected
Radcliffe Librarian. This event was hailed by some of
his London medical friends as giving him an excuse
and an opportunity for resigning the Lee's Readership
and devoting himself solely to the practice of his

profession.

   Well, my dear Acland (wrote Dr. Latham), you have just
passed your finger into the right ring for holding you in
connexion with the University and letting you be free at
the same time for the proper business of your profession.

I congratulate you and Mrs. Acland that your plan of pro-

fessional life is now fairly fixed and circumscribed. Let it be
your business, as it is your duty {vive memor Ruskini), to lop
off" excrescences and bring your daily work within the compass
of your mind, body, and health.

    May you live long, and be happy and useful in your

generation.

   Indeed, the strain which Acland was putting upon
himself was causing much anxiety to his friends, not
merely from the fear that his scientific and medical

ambitions should prove mutually destructive, but from
1856]  HOME LIFE  167

'Ithe apprehension that his bodily health must give out.
     was obliged to practise in my profession by day to
enable me to carry on the work of which my share was

done chiefly at night/ he wrote long afterwards. The

preparation for his lectures was no light tax, though

small in comparison with the labours which he bestowed
on the collection and arrangement of the specimens in
the Christ Church Museum ; but his work as Lee's

Reader and as a consulting physician seemed to guests
in his household to be only a fraction of the absorbing
calls on him, which left scarce a moment of the day or
night unoccupied. In the June of 1851 Ruskin paid him
a visit, and on departure gave vent to his feelings in the
letter to which Dr. Latham alludes :

   Dear Acland,

            I was going to write to your wife about you but
I don't like to frighten her -- as you say she is sad enough
already : but I will frighten her unless I hear that you are
going to leave Oxford directly. You cannot work less if
you stay there-- or if you do, it will be at the cost of continual
vexation and annoyance --^just as bad for you as work. I
never saw such a life as you live there -- you never were able
so much as to put a piece of meat in your mouth without
writing a note at the side of your plate --you were everlastingly
going somewhere and going somewhere else on the way to it --

and doing something on the way to somewhere else, and
something else at the same time that you did the something --
and then another thing by the bye -- and two or three other
things besides -- and then-- wherever you went, there were
always five or six people lying in wait at corners and catching
hold of you and asking questions, and leading you aside into

private conferences and making engagements to come at a

quarter to six -- and send two other people at a quarter-past --

and three or four more to hear what had been said to them,
at five-and-twenty minutes past -- and to have an answer to
a note at half-past-- and get tickets for soup at five-and-twenty

minutes to seven-- and just to see you in the passage as you
were going to dinner -- and so on.
i68  HENRY ACLAND                            [1847-

   I am as sure that you cannot stay in Oxford as if yourI it,                                 is
house was on fire -- or the whole place-- I never was so annoyed
at you as yesterday -- or so sorry for you -- I don't know whetherit

you ever mind what anybody says -- but perhaps you may

mind it a little more in writing; and yet I have nothing to
say but what you know as well -- or better than I --that you are

doing a great wrong to your wife and to all who regard either
you or her, and to your children -- Would it not be better
for them to be bred peasants on the Devonshire hills, so long
as they had their father to teach them what was good and
noble, than to be bred in gentilities and silkennesses, without
a father-- though I suppose they would still be poor, if you
were to kill yourself as you are likely to do in six months ?

I am perfectly certain you cannot stay in Oxford -- nor continue
your profession at present. You must give up for an entire

year. Lay this matter barely before God -- and take care there
is no dread of what is to be done or said by other people --
and see what answer you will get.

    Or suppose you were a tyrant, and had in your service

Dr. Henry Acland --and could make him keep at his work --if

you chose -- would you not be afraid to do it -- afraid of doing
murder; but self-murder you think venial. Don't answer

this -- of course. I hardly know why I write for there

nothing to be said which you do not know -- but could not

rest without saying again.
                                               Yours affectionately,

                                                                                    RUSKIN.
                            J.

   Acland forwarded the letter to the same kind friend
whose letter has just been quoted, and Dr. Latham's
reply showed that Ruskin's remonstrance had hit the
mark:

Mr. Ruskin's humorous note  serious affair.                                                    full
if

                            a

                                                                             ;

                                                            is
                                                                        a

                                                                        It

                                                                                           is
of friendship and truth, comical and pathetic together. You

are beset with legion of little amiable devils, bespeaking

your health and strength for their various virtuous impracti-

cabilities and twaddlements. You must get rid of them

either by flight or by force you cannot remain in Oxford

your present obligation of surrendering yourself to every-
1856]  HOME LIFE  169

body's use is to continue. You must be either a physican
or a professor, not both.

   Excellent as the advice must be admitted to have

been, Acland was in no mood to take it. Dr. Latham's
prediction was to a certain extent verified. It was
neither as a teacher nor as a physician that he won the
position in Oxford which he retained for so many years ;

but we may safely say that he would hardly stand where
he does in the annals of the University had he con-
sented to put aside either of the great activities which

to the outside observer seemed incompatible with one
another. He never wavered in his single-minded desire
to advance scientific teaching in the University of Oxford,
and to serve the cause of medical education in its truest

sense. But to enable him to pursue this object the

stern necessity for daily bread tied him to his profession.
The escape from the dilemma was to come, but not yet;
and meanwhile that versatility which was the birthright
of his family, which Liddell had prophesied would

be his ruin, did undoubtedly raise up stumbHng-blocks
to threaten his usefulness in the cause that he had most

at heart. In the midst of these incessant labours it
is curious but characteristic to find him full of self-
reproach for indolence, and asking himself, * Is it re-

mediable, is it physical or mental ? '
   Amongst other reasons which rendered it impossible

for Acland to relax in his professiona efforts, the rapid
growth of his family must be reckoned. His eldest
child, now Rear-Admiral Sir William Alison Dyke
Acland, was born on December 18, 1847, receiving his
second name from Dr. Alison, who stood as his god-

father. Between that date and August, 1858, came one
daughter and six more sons. The growth of this young
family necessitated not unfrequent separation between
husband and wife; the babies had to be taken for

change of air to Essex, or to Holnicote, or Bude, at times
when the doctor was unable to leave his work; and

occasionally an urgent professional call would remove
I70  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

him from home for days together. Such a summons
took him to Paris in the January of 1848, where he
enjoyed the privilege of an introduction to many of the
leading scientific men in France and to the official and
military circles of the Court. His hosts and himself
seem to be equally unsuspicious of the downfall which
was about to overwhelm the throne of Louis Philippe.
In the same year Mrs. Liddell's desperate attack of

typhoid fever caused him to be hastily summoned to
Westminster, and kept him for days at her bedside.

* Mrs. Liddell lives still. I have been with her since
I came, and have fed her every twenty minutes. Liddell's

conduct is beautiful,' he wrote on his arrival at what

seemed a dying bed. Thanks in no small measure to

his assiduous care the patient made a wonderful recovery,
and still lives, one of the last survivors of the golden age

of Christ Church. Her husband's removal to West-
minster just before the Aclands settled down in Oxford

had been a grievous disappointment to both families ;
but it wrought no change in the relation between
Liddell and his old pupil, and the former's appointment
to the Deanery of Christ Church in 1855 placed them
on terms of almost daily intimacy.

   The letters which are preserved during the temporary
absence of husband and wife would be sufficient to

prove that the union had more than realized Henry

Acland's hopes and prayers. A few extracts will suffice

to show the whirl of varied interests and the relentless
press of work in which his professional life was passed ;
but there is no stronger tribute to Mrs. Acland than
a couple of lines taken from a letter of her husband's
written in 1849 : * My views of life and society are

wholly changed within the last two or three years. All

things wear another aspect.*

                                                                      Oxford, 1848.

    Heavy business has pressed on me all day, without a fee;

from half-past six till a quarter-past seven I have hardly sat
down ; I was not ten minutes at dinner. However, the proof-
1856]                 HOME LIFE            171

sheets of half the pamphlet ^ are in ; and all the preparations

are in, but the unarranged zoological series ; and seven or

eight others are entered and done, except a few minutes;

and the place ^ looks so nice. I cannot get on at all with the

said pamphlet; it can only be written after tea, and about

eleven I become so fatigued that I cannot hold even a pen.
I am unfortunate in one respect. I have lost Sir Robert

Inglis's copy of the Medical Bill, which is quite essential to my

safety, for I am sure to be attacked for my pamphlet by some
wretched fellow. Oh ! I am so tired ; and I cannot have tea
because of writing to you, and I cannot wait for it because
Jackson ^ is coming here to do some work he wants. I am
becoming again quite popular among the doctors. I have

had to-day from two persons objects sent for examination in

the microscope. Charlie* is getting on famously with a

stag's skeleton ; it will be done this week.

                                           Oxford, 1848.

I am immensely doleful ; it is Saturday evening, and I am
not coming to you. I scarcely know what to make of it.
I have had a hard and unsatisfactory week, always at work
                                           I was struck by
and getting little wisdom or money.

what Wood said to me ; ' I wonder you can go on as you

do. Always in and out, and always pressed ; it cannot
be good for you.' I think myself that the Museum must be

given up. Whether the Readership is continued or not,

I must give up all thoughts of continuing to gain knowledge

in that department. The Dean of Westminster wished me
to dine with him to-day at IsHp. I had meant to go, but

I felt unable. I was very wearyj and so thought that his

flow of talk would do more harm than good. He tells me
that F. Buckland is in Paris at work. He seemed in high

feather, and had with him Mr. Warburton, the Radical M.P.

who attacked me for my pamphlet, amongst other things

because it proposed to surrender privileges when we ought

to have them increased ! ! ^

^ The letter to Dr. Jacobson.  ^ The Christ Church Museum.

^ One of his colleagues at the Infirmary.

* i. e. Charlie Robertson.

* See p. 247, infra.
172                  HENRY ACLAND                                           [1847-

                                                                OxFORD, May 3, 1848.

   I am sorry to say that I am going to London to-morrow,
as I thought I might have to do ; but only to see Sir Benjamin

Brodie and Gladstone, which you are not to mention to any
one, about University alterations in medical matters. I have

in common with all the other resident doctors been consulted,
and feel being matter which will probably seal the fate
of Oxford for ever in the department of her medical privileges)

that must give my utmost attention before give an answer.
Dr. Bliss the new head Jacobson vastly happy, and
walks about quad in bands without gown.
     I
               is (it

                               a

                                                                        ^;

                                                                  is

                                                      I

                                         Oxford, August, 1848.

Ia I  have got through my work well, but, besides the others,

had to go to Ewelme.     met also caravan belonging to
                      I            aa

    brother of Mr. Batty. There was sick leopardess whom

    doctored, but fear she will die. They made me go into
                  I

the den where she was with lion. They gave me two
                         a

young leopards which died to-day.

      The poor leopardess,' he adds day or two after-
'                    I
               *
                                  a
                                                         a
wards, died, and had terrible struggle with her all

yesterday.'                 Oxford, September 1848.

                                                                            I
                                                                                        5,

                                                                                      I it

                                                                                                is
      have no news for you, except that am bored with the
I

           I
                                 :
                        it
                                is

                            I
                                  I
                                   I
                                               II
horrid mess of the workmen, and the great dilatoriness at

the Museum           surpasses anything                     could conceive as

IIpossible. The elk   come, and very fine.                                  fancy

    feet across the horns, but have not measured it.                                             am

so tired cannot write. . was called out to Jericho last
night, and besides that scarce slept.

                                                          Oxford, October, 1848.

   Hussey preached on Natural History. In the course of his
sermon he had curious account of scavengers --worms,
beetles, carrion crows and ravens, not to mention the rest--
and then he described the swallows flitting. There was good
deal of astronomy, but was amused at his not taking on

himself to say the stars are fixed stars the stars which those
who pay particular attention to them, and are called astrono-
                  a

                             ^

                           I

                                                                        :
                                                                    '

                                                                                              a
                      Of St. Mary Hall.
1856]               HOLIDAYS                       173

mers, say keep the same place.'        Worthy of the Regius
Professor of Divinity !

   The holidays, or such brief holida37's as he could
snatch, were variously spent. In 1848 he visited Ardris-
haig; in 1849 he spent a week or two in North Wales,
and crossing over to Dublin on the eve of the Queen's
visit, made the aquaintance of Dr. Stokes, the learned

author of Stokes on Fevers, whom he records as being
                                                               '
* like  Babington,  a very  great man  out of his  profession
                                                                  ;

in 1850 he joined Liddell in an expedition to the English
Lakes ; in 1851 he spent part of the summer with his
wife and children at Sark dredging for marine specimens;

in 1853 his brother Arthur Troyte lent the family a
house at Teignmouth, while Acland himself journeyed

north on a memorable week's visit to Ruskin at Glen-

finlas in the neighbourhood of Dunblane, where the

latter was established in a small cottage with his wife

and the brothers Millais, artist and engineer. Ruskin

was engaged upon the second volume of the Stones of
Venice, and Millais was painting whenever the weather

would allow him ^. The weather was characteristic of

Scotland at its worst, but Acland managed to do a fair

amount of work with his pencil. * Ruskin,' he writes,

' has knocked off my sketching for ever, having quite
convinced me that the paltry drawings I have been in

the habit of are most injurious to the doer in his moral

nature. What I can try to do is to draw something
really well. I hope to be well enough to try to-morrow

a bit of rock and water.' When the rain was too

torrential the party played battledore till they were ex-

hausted, and Ruskin read aloud and talked to Acland.

* Ruskin,' he wrote, ' I understand more than I have

before : truth and earnestness of purpose are his great

guides, and no labour of thought or work is wearisome

   ^ It was on this occasion that, on Acland's suggestion, Millais
began his well-known portrait of Ruskin as he stood 'contem-

platively on the rocks, with the torrent thundering beside him.'
The picture is now in Miss Acland's house at Oxford.
174               HENRY ACLAND                    [1847-

to him '; and again: ' I ought to say, as a key to Ruskin,

I had no idea of the intensity of his rehgious feeling

before now/ In contrast to the profound wisdom and
intenseness of Ruskin came the never-ceasing flow of
badinage on the part of the other guests. Acland had

never been accustomed to what is called 'chaff/ and
mingled bewilderment and amusement are portrayed in
his letter. Millais he had met before at Oxford, and had
not known what to make of him. ' I wronged and could
not read him,' he wrote to Mrs. Acland. * Now I feel

as though Ruskin's conversation and Millais' genius

should have made an impression on me for life.'

   You will be disappointed in Millais, and wonder what
I mean, for he will come to see us. To read him you must
be in the mind to value Art highly-- to take it as a message

from Heaven, and see the point in his work and not in his

words. So you will attain to the conviction that he is a man

with powers and perception granted to very few ; not more

imagination, not more feeling, but a finer feeling and more

intuitive and instantaneous imagination than other men. Of

this his nonsense affords the most striking proof. It was

curious to see how puzzled he was by me. He found out

'Ifirst, that I was obstinate; second, that I was eager; third, that
I was full of fun ; fourth, about the third day,  do so like

this doctor, I don't know what we shall do when he is gone *
--which I mention to show his dogged investigation of every-

thing about him.

   Millais' regret at Acland's departure was shared by
himself as well as by his host ; and at parting Ruskin
said, ' Tell Mrs. Acland that if she will come and see us
here I will give pf 10 to any charity she will name.' The

bribe was useless, and the visit to Glenfinlas was never

to be paid.

   In 1854 the early summer before the great cholera
outbreak was passed at Walmer. In 1855 he made a
journey to Bonn and Heidelberg, renewing his old

friendship with Bunsen, who joined in the protest against
his attempting to combine the pursuit of science with
1856]  HOLIDAYS  175

the practice of medicine. In 1856 he spent a few days
down the river at Pangbourne with Severn and Rich-

mond, and he chronicles the latter's insistence upon
having gooseberry-pie for tea. He also paid a short
visit to Charles Courtenay, now married and settled in

his living at Bovey Tracy : ' I see his life is as happy as
it is holy.' Later in the year he was called upon to

deliver lectures at Durham and at Newcastle.

  ... I was really sorry to add another public effort to my

year's work ; but the occasion was a special one that can

never recur, and I further had reason to think that fny help
would be of special value to meritorious persons. The
University of Durham and the town of Newcastle are start-

ing a Medical Faculty, and starting it in a very thorough
way. They wanted a Professor from Oxford and one from
the London University to be the first examiners. This was

wisely planned and honestly, and it rested with me whether

to help or thwart them. I have never had a more interesting

excursion. The ordeal was a severe one for the pupils --
a delicate one for us. We examined them, besides two days
of paper-work : ist, in Dissections on a Subject ; 2nd, in

Surgical Operations on the Subject; 3rd, in the Detection
of Disease in the Surgical Wards of the Hospital ; 4th, in
Medical Disease in other Wards ; 5th, in a Public Viva Voce
on Treatment. I do not suppose there is so thorough
a thing in the kingdom. My London University colleague,
Mr. Erichsson, Professor of Surgery, is a capital man, and
the head people at Newcastle thorough fellows, I 'delivered
an address ' both at Newcastle and at Durham. The subjects
were interesting enough :

   1. The Cause of Doubtings in Medicine, and the Remedy.
   2. The Effect of the Study of Medicine on the other Studies
of the University. . . .

   I go to London Tuesday evening to the Queen's ball, and
return after Tom's marriage \

On a subsequent journey to Edinburgh he broke his
journey at Wallington, the home of Sir Walter and

   * T. D. Acland had been left a widower in 1851. His second
wife was Mary, daughter of John Erskine, Esq.
176                          HENRY ACLAND                      [1847-

Lady Trevelyan ; and he spent a few days with the
Liddells at Bamborough Castle, of which the Dean's
father was one of the trustees. The Christ Church
undergraduates would have stared had they seen the
Dean and the Lee's Reader tramping over moor and
fell, and, when the exigencies of the route required
divesting themselves of their nether garments and ford-
ing the streams like brace of Highlanders. Here he

seized the opportunity to inspect the hghthouses on
Fern Island, famous as the scene of Grace Darling's
heroism. Grace herself was dead, of consumption fol-

lowing her great exploit, and he could only send home
   pen-and-ink sketch of her tomb but Acland spent

couple of nights with her father on the outer light-

house.
                             a
                                                                                         it,

a                            ;                                          a
                  is
                                          a
                                                   ;
Darling seventy years of age, tall man, most intelligent

and much read. For instance, he has read Wordsworth,

Byron, Keble, some of Scott and considers romances foolish-

ness which some people cannot keep off from             .      .  makes
                                                            .

nests to the present day for the sea-birds, because, he don't,
                                                        if

they make them in places where the young will be washed

away there                   gale of wind while they are being reared.
     if

                    is
                          a

  The hospitable homes of Sir Thomas and Lady Acland
and of Mr. and Mrs. Cotton were ever open to children
and grandchildren. The picturesque old house at Holni-
cote was unfortunately burnt to the ground on Aug. 30,
1851 but at Killerton and at Efford Down, near Bude,
they were always sure of welcome. Among those
who had taken to paying yearly visits to the West of
England were Dr. and Mrs. Alison, and on more than one

occasion they broke the journey at Oxford. Unhappily,
the malady which clouded Dr. Alison's later years had

begun to manifest itself, and the constant strain and

heart-breaking anxiety which entailed were too much

for the strength of his wife. Her letters during those

days to Henry Acland, whom she had consulted both

as doctor and friend, are indescribably touching.
     a;
                               a

                                                     a

                                                it
1856]  HOME LIFE  177

The end came in December, 1849. ' Margaret died,'
is the brief entry among Acland's papers, which marks
the close of one of the strongest attachments of a Hfe

that abounded in high and generous friendships.

During the years that followed he scarcely ever failed
to pay at least one visit to her husband, who lived on

till 1859, a heart-broken man in failing health, clinging to
work as his only solace. In 1850 Alison received, largely
through the instrumentality of his old pupil, the honorary
degree of an Oxford D.C.L.

   With Acland's own family these years dealt tenderly,

though the day of sorrow and separation was not far off.
One great bereavement fell upon them. In the year
1851, Mrs. T. D. Acland died of scarlet fever, contracted
while nursing her children and husband. Of her simple

and beautiful character something has been said on an

earlier page, and a full account will be found in the
Memoir of her husband privately printed in 1902. With
her death went another of the Hnks which bound Henry

Acland to the hopes and fears and ambitions and dis-
couragements which marked the old life in London

and Edinburgh.
   In another place there will be something to say of

Acland's ever-growing circle of acquaintance inside the
University and out. But two bearers of historic names,
on which they were destined to shed additional lustre,
are associated with these days. Among his earliest

undergraduate patients was a tall, hollow-chested strip-
ling from 'the House,' the Lord Robert Cecil, who,
as Marquis of SaHsbury, four times Prime Minister of
England, has so recently retired from the service of his
sovereign, rich in years and honours. The extreme
delicacy of Lord Salisbury's boyhood, which debarred
him from outdoor sports at Eton and from the strenuous
competition of the Oxford Class-Lists, is matter of history.
In Acland he found an adviser as apt to ' minister to a
mind diseased ' as to correct ordinary physical ailments.

I betray no secrets in saying that it was mainly owing

                                                       N
178  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

to his constant sympathy and encouragement that Lord
Robert fought down the ill-health which threatened to
debar him from a public career, and it was to Acland's
advice to try the effect of travel and sea air that he after-

wards said he owed his life.
   The other name is that of Lord Carnarvon, whose

political life was to run so closely parallel to that of Lord
Robert Cecil, his colleague in three administrations, his

chief in one ; with whom he was associated in a notable

resignation, and from whom he parted company at
another great crisis in the fortunes of the Conservative
party. Lord Carnarvon had succeeded to the title in 1849,

when on the very threshold of the University, and Sir
Thomas Acland, who was a connexion of the Herberts,

was his guardian during the few months of his minority.
In the hour of her bereavement Henry Acland had

promised the widowed mother that her son should be

watched over by him with a brother's care during his
time at Christ Church. The young lord, who to the
end of his days retained his scholarly tastes, was an

ardent student who required holding back rather than
pressing on. His efforts were rewarded by a First

Class in Classics in December, 1852, and Lady Car-
narvon, in pouring out her thanks to Acland for his
letter of congratulation on her son's success, adds : * He
told me of what service your prescriptions had been to
him, and it made me feel comparatively easy and tranquil
during all that time to know that your kind and skilful

eye was watching him.'
   Among Lord Carnarvon's closest Oxford friends was

Lord Sandon, and to him Acland had telegraphed the
news of his friend's First Class. ' It may alter the com-
plexion of his whole life,' wrote Lord Sandon in reply,
'with regard to vigour and self-reliance. . . . An in-

creasing melancholy comes over me at the thought of
my Oxford time being completely closed. How much
of the pleasure and benefit of that time was received in
those pleasant evenings at your house. For no small
1856]            HOME LIFE                                                                                                           179

share of the delightful recollections of the last three

years I have to thank Mrs. Acland and yourself.'
   This letter contains the earliest allusion I have been

able to find to the practice, inaugurated by the Aclands
at the very beginning of their Oxford life, of keeping

open house to their undergraduate acquaintances on

Sunday evenings. The conditions of the University

have been so utterly transformed by the system of mar-

ried fellows and the extension of South Kensington

into North Oxford, that it is difficult to appreciate the

startling innovation caused by this introduction of a

v^eekly 'At Home.' Acland had reahzed what a blank

the long Sunday evenings formed to the majority of the

Oxford undergraduates, how fertile in opportunities for

mischief, active and passive, and how especially de-

pressing to the 'men' who, though they would have

died rather than confess were pining for the gentler
             It

                                       it,
                                            8

                                                         It
side of life and the associations of home.                   was inti-

mated to his pupils, and to any undergraduates with

whom he was acquainted, personally, or through the

introduction of others, that the house in Broad Street

would always be open from to 11 on Sunday evenings

in term time to those of them who cared for music and

quiet talk.  was one of the first steps which broke

down the wall of separation between the older and

younger members of the University. The old relation

of tutor and pupil, when exemplified by such cases as

Liddell and Acland or Newman and Rogers, was per-

haps the ideal link. But the modern intercourse, free

and unrestrained, between the dons and the fleeting

generations of undergraduates dates from Acland's

Sunday evenings
'

   It

                \

                                                             '

                                                         2

                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                  '
       will be more convenient to defer to another chapter

an account of the parallel process by which Town and

 Gown,' then as far asunder as the Jews and Samaritans
of old, were drawn together, and of the position which
Acland gradually acquired among the citizens of Oxford

                 See p. 384, infra.
                          N
i8o  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

and among those responsible for its municipal adminis-
tration. From the very first years of his working life in
the city Acland had thrown himself heart and soul into
every project for the amelioration of the condition of

those around him. His house became the centre of
charitable relief, not in the shape of loaves and shillings,

though the hungry and needy were never sent empty
away, but in the far more valuable matter of organiza-
tion. He and his wife were the centre of every
movement which aimed at brightening the lives of the

poor, or at rendering their existence healthier and more
hopeful. They were the means of opening up countless
unsuspected channels through which schemes of charity
were inaugurated, and of enlisting the sympathies of

classes and individuals who would otherwise have re-

mained untouched. Acland's most strenuous aim was

to get at the cause of poverty before attempting to
relieve the symptoms. Though his goodness to the

poor was unstinted and his sympathy and personal
charity knew no bounds, he was well aware of the evils
of promiscuous almsgiving, and despised the easy repu-
tation for generosity which lies that way. He preferred
to incur the hostility of vested interests and the imputa-
tion of hardness of heart which attach themselves to the
efforts of the sanitary reformer.

   To any one who once got to know the doctor the
folly and injustice of this latter charge became ludi-
crously apparent. The man who would take a homeless

foreigner into his own house late at night and with the
assistance of his wife make up a bed in a spare room,
rather than disturb his servants, was of a different kidney
to the armchair philanthropist ^ And, on behalf of the

   * The following specimen of German-Baboo-English throws
a light upon Acland's kindly relations with foreigners in distress :

   Honourable Sir and Doctor,

      I feel myself so much benefitted and improved by the excellent
and almost new waistcoat, of which I really stood in great need of,
that I cannot omit to acknowledge hereby most gratefully, your
1856]  HOME LIFE  i8i

victims of a trade which has now happily disappeared,
he devoted himself to a work the memory of which still

lingers on at Oxford.
    In the forties and fifties the bitter cry of the little

chimney-sweeps was still unheeded in the land, though
Lord Shaftesbury was striving with all his noble per-

tinacity to effect their rescue from white slavery. Their
condition in Oxford was no worse than anywhere else,
but it was enough to move the hearts of Dr. and Mrs.
Acland to compassion. First one poor lad and then

another was sought out and questioned, and invited to

come round to Broad Street on Sunday afternoon and

rest his httle aching limbs : in summer in the garden, in
winter in a corner by the fire. After a plentiful tea Mrs.
Acland would read to them, and would elicit the story
of their lives ; and by degrees some rays of light would
penetrate the darkness of their lot, and some seeds
of instruction in the sacred story would fall on ground

however ill-prepared for its reception. Gradually the
news spread, and little sweeps from Abingdon and the
neighbouring towns would find their way to Oxford
on a Sunday, and spend their one day of freedom in

surroundings so different from the squalid misery which
made up the staple of their existence. Thank God, the

generous benevolence, kindness, and philanthropy. If you should

be in possession of a pair of old trousers ; they would highly suit
me, and it would be no matter, if they should be an inch too long,
or might be an inch too narrow, as I could easily mend this my-
self. My landlady has offered to make them to suit, as she is very
kind to me. I am much afraid of having no trousers ; but I have
two coats in London, also still another pair of boots. It is an
article so costly, that I should be most happy, to get a pair of your
old ones. I will take the liberty to call to morrow at noon, and
hear, if you have been able to find a pair of your or your honoured
family's. People is generally looking so much at trousers, and in
fact are indispensable. Hoping, Honourable Sir and Doctor, you
will kindly pardon this considerate application. I remain, with

the most profound respect, and the most sincere gratitude

                                 Honourable Sir and Doctor,
                                                  Your most humble servant.
i82  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

days are past when such an example of Christian charity
could excite wonder, and when a class so foriorn and
helpless could exist uncared for in a Christian city. The
following letter preserved among Acland's papers shows
that his kindness was not always misplaced :

                        St. James's Road, Croydon, November 29, 1871.

   Dear Dr. Acland,

            As an old member of your Clinical Class at the Rad-
clifFe you will, I am sure, forgive my writing.

   In my present parish (and this is the cause of my writing)
there resides a sweep named Ludlow, a native of Oxford,
who was a member of the class you used to assemble at your
house on Sunday. He has a very grateful sense of very
much kindness, and, more than that, of the instruction and
good advice you gave him and his companions. When in
Oxford this year he called at your house with his wife, but
you were out of town.

   I regret to say he is much out of health, and I do not think

the medical men he has here been able to consult have done
him much good, though they give him great hopes of being

better. This does not satisfy him, and frequent visits are
costly -- more particularly if there is no good result. He still
works, and has a large business. He tells me he is going
home on business, and I suggested that he should call on
you at the Hospital as an out-patient, as I felt sure you would
be glad if you could put him in the way of getting relief, and
perhaps might suggest to him some one fully able to carry
on the treatment in London ; for I am sure he is getting
no good by going from one to another of the local general

practitioners.

   You will, I am sure, be glad to know that he is much

respected here.

   Feeling sure that you will not think that I am taking

a liberty by writing to you on such a subject,

                          I remain, dear Dr. Acland,

                                              Very faithfully yours,

                                                A. J. Bennoch,

                                            Curate of St. James's, Croydon.
1856]  THE CHOLERA  183

   Whatever doubts may have existed as to Acland's
position as the leading medical man in Oxford were
set at rest in the autumn of 1854, when the cholera,

which had spread its ravages up and down England

with a strange capriciousness, settled on Oxford. It
was the year of the Crimean war. All through the
summer months the members of the expeditionary force,
English and French, had been dying like flies at Varna
and Scutari, Charles Kingsley has used the visitation
in the finest chapters of Two Years Ago, and has made

it the text for a sermon against dirt and uncleanness
which atones for certain errors of taste and mawkish-
ness of sentiment.

   He had come at last, Baalzebub, god of flies and of what

flies are bred from ; to visit his self-blinded worshippers, and
bestow on them his own Cross of the Legion of Dishonour.
He had come suddenly, capriciously, sportively, as he some-

times comes : as he had come to Newcastle the summer
before while yet the rest of England was untouched. He
had wandered all but harmless about the West Country that

summer, as if his maw had been full glutted five years before,

when he sat for many a week upon the Dartmoor hills amid
the dull brown haze, and sunburnt bents, and dried-up water-
courses of white dusty granite, looking far and wide over the
plague-struck land, and listening to the death-bell booming all
day long in Tavistock churchyard. But he was come at last

-- with appetite more fierce than ever \

   The conditions of the little Devonshire fishing-village
-- the ' Aberalva ' of the story -- and the university town
in the Midlands were widely different ; but in each was to
be found the same gross and appallmg neglect of sanitary

  ^ Writing to his wife on April 23, 1856, Acland says, ' I have been
reading Two Years Ago. It tears me up and I reproach myself

for all my carelessness and sin ; and wonder how you bear with

me. Yet, my Sarah, I do not wonder ho'w you do. I think the
home question is just a religious one, which way we can do best
for the time that is allowed to us.' Few men with his record

would have found in the tale a text for humility.
i84  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

laws. Large portions of Oxford were practically with-
out any drainage whatever, and the citizens pumped
their water from wells out of gravel in which many
hundreds of cesspools had been arranged during past
centuries. The Isis and the Cherwell, in whose waters
the undergraduates bathed and rowed, and whence the
drinking supply of the citizens was largely derived, were
polluted by the sewage filth which was poured into

them.

   Both the streams which pass through St. Thomas's are,

before they enter the parish, contaminated by sewers from
other parts of the town, receiving similar foul additions
from the parish itself and the gaol ; afterwards, before reach-
ing the waterworks, various outpourings from St. Ebbe's

enter the river. The stream called Trill Mill Stream, which

passes through the north of St. Ebbe's and St. Aldate's,
receives and contributes its quota to mingle with the main
branch of the Isis, as it flows in front of the walk in Christ
Church Meadow, the favourite resort of the boating com-
munity of Oxford. To fence off the foul odours of this

Trill Mill Stream, or Pactolus, from those who frequent

these grounds for health and pleasure the Dean and Chapter
of Christ Church several years since munificently erected
a substantial wall. The collected impurities which flow in
the course that is now described are met at the mouth of the

Cherwell by the refuse which that stream, pure in com-
parison before it reached the city, obtains from the drainage
of parts of St. Mary Magdalen, Holywell, St. Peter in the East,
together with the entire refuse of the district of St. Clement's.

   The dwellings of the poorer classes were, as a whole,
not below the standard of civilization of the day. Acland
declares that in London and Edinburgh ^ and other

   ^ His early medical experiences in the Northern capital are
responsible for the remark that ' in some of the wynds of Edin-
burgh the poorest rooms were once the habitations of the nobles.
Open stairs lead to high though divided rooms, and, much as fever

and other sickness rages in them, yet through the larger approaches
and the higher apartments the blessed air of the breezy Firth can
sometimes wend its way.' -- Memoir on the Cholera, p. 47.
1856]  THE CHOLERA  185

large towns he had visited places incomparably worse
than any to be found in Oxford. Many even of the
lowest class of houses were airy and open, with gar-

dens behind them, and in some the landlords insisted

on a proper supply of sanitary conveniences; but in
St. Thomas's and in St. Ebbe's were tenements whose

condition was deplorable. Something had been done
by private benevolence, and one of the worst alleys in the
town had been cleared out for the erection of a model

lodging-house. But the experiment had broken down

commercially, and though the slum population was dis-
placed there were no model dwellings. The fault of many
of the lower tenements, then more than a century old,
was radically implanted in them. * The rooms are too

low, the outlet too confined; they are in some places

built back to back and have no thorough ventilation.
And there is scarcely any remedy for some of the places
but the remedy which followed the Plague of London.'

   Apart from the alleys and courts in the poorer

quarters, there was a plague-spot for whose existence

no palliation could be pleaded. At a short distance
from the county gaol flowed a branch of the river Isis,

passing the castle mill, forming a brisk stream in the

mill-tail and carrying with it whatever impurities it
obtained in the mill-head. When the mill was not at

work, and the water was ponded up, the mill-tail became,

as such spots always do, a nearly stagnant pool. In
1854 the river was unusually low and the pool contained

various garbage stationary on its surface and its bottom.

A drain from the prison flowed into the pool ; within

ten feet of this running drain, the supply-pipe from the
prison sucked up the contents of the pool for the prison
use. From this source the kitchen coppers were supplied,
and with this water the soup and the gruel for the
prisoners were made ^

   ^ It should be added that no sooner was the attention of the
governor of the gaol drawn to this somewhat obvious fact than
the pipes were cut off and there were practically no fresh cases
i86  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

   On August 6 a butcher's wife in Walton Road, situated
in that northern suburb known as Jericho, was seized
with a case of undoubted cholera. In ten hours
she was dead. On the 12th there were two more
cases, a charwoman from Gas Street in the parish of

St. Ebbe's, and a prisoner in the county gaol ; neither
of these cases terminated fatally, but on the 15th a
carter's little daughter, also living in Gas Street, was
struck down and died within forty-eight hours. There
were one or two other cases at intervals of a day or
two, and then on August 30 the occurrence of six cases
placed the existence of an epidemic beyond all doubt,
and with September set in a steady tide of victims.
There was no day in which there were fewer than

three ; on ten days in that month the cases reached
double figures, culminating with fourteen on Sep-
tember 20, the day * of the winning of that terrible

Hillside' on the banks of the Alma. The first half of

October saw no diminution. There were ten cases on

the 2nd, eleven on the 5th, and three as late as the
2oth, but the disease had run its course, and the last

case, a fatal one, was recorded on the 30th. Many
of the cases were notified as choleraic diarrhoea, but
the severity of the visitation may be gauged by the
fact that out of 194 cases of undoubted cholera there
were 115 deaths. In many instances there were no
premonitory symptoms, collapse taking place within
a few hours of the seizure.

   This was not the first time that Oxford had been
visited by a cholera epidemic. In 1832 there had been

an outbreak which cost eighty-six lives ; in 1849 a
shorter but sharper visitation had claimed seventy-five

victims ^. Both of them had been described in print, the

within the walls of what had been up till then a main focus of
disease.

   ^ In 1849 Acland had laboured almost single-handed. Professor
Max Muller had first assisted him, and then become one of his
patients.
1856]  THE CHOLERA  187

latter by Dr. Greenhill and Mr. Allen, and it might have
been supposed that the lessons of those years would
have been taken to heart by the Board of Guardians
in whose care rested the sanitary condition of the

city. On the contrary, nothing had been done; the

inhabitants were as unprepared as they had been

five years previously, and a disagreement which had

arisen in 1849 between the Guardians and the
Board of Health had left a doubt as to the spirit in

which the contest with another epidemic would be

attempted.

   The history of one ' plague ' is very like that of
another so far as its effects upon the natures of men and
women are concerned. There is the same mixture of

panic and recklessness, of utter selfishness and of super-

human devotion, the same hideous agony in the midst
of callous debauchery, whether the scene be Athens or
Florence, London or Oxford. There is always the same
picture of over- worked doctors with their heroic followers,

men and women, clerical and lay, striving to make up
for the sins of neglect and commission which have ren-
dered such a visitation possible. In Oxford towards
the end of that August it was generally rumoured that

cholera in its worst shape was spreading through the
city. The alarm was profound and amply justified, for

the fatal cases had occurred in widely distant locahties ;

not in the lowest tenements only, or in filthy slums, but
in the centre of the city and among persons of easy
circumstances whose conditions of life should have

precluded the likelihood of any attack. As early as
August 31 the Board of Guardians appointed a small
unpaid committee of their body to act as a Board of
Health ; on September 6, when the epidemic was almost
at its height, Acland was added to their number as
Consulting Physician, and from that date the organiza-
tion of the measures to combat the outbreak fell almost

exclusively into his hands. He was well supported
by the staff of the Radcliffe Infirmary and by many of
i88  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

the resident Oxford practitioners, but the control and
initiative rested witli him.

   Provision was made for prompt attendance at the

houses of persons affected with cholera or with choleraic
symptoms, for which purpose the city was divided into
districts, and medical attendants were appointed to each
of them in numbers proportioned to the probable wants
of the locality. Resident medical men well acquainted

with the city were urged to undertake those duties,

and for their assistance messengers were placed in a
central spot to convey medicines, blankets, hot bottles
or tins, food, and such other necessaries as might be
ordered. In this central spot were kept the addresses
of all nurses available, and a medical man was accessible

by night and day. In each district a dispensary was
kept open at certain stated hours, and if necessary at
all hours, and provision was made for distributing
with method rations for the nurses and food and
bedding for the sick. An inspector was appointed to
superintend the cleansing or destruction of clothes or
articles of furniture belonging to cholera patients, and

a staff was organized to regulate and arrange all matters
connected with the burial of the dead. From time to time

notices were published with the object of warning, in-
structing, or encouraging the public. On September 8
a general statement was issued of the precautionary or

preventive measures which had been undertaken, together
with a circular of general advice to all classes of persons

adapted from instructions furnished by the General
Board of Health. These were followed by a description
of the several medical districts into which the city had
been divided, and a summary of the general arrange-
ments for the care of the public health. On Septem-
ber 19, when the disease was at its worst, a caution
against the use of castor oil without medical advice was

widely circulated.
    In the method and businesslike detail of these

notices, in the care with which order-books, forms of
1856]  THE CHOLERA  189

daily returns, tables for entering choleraic disease, dis-

pensary forms, &c,, were provided, and their use enforced,
it is easy to detect Acland's clear head and administra-
tive capacity. He had grasped from the first the
necessity of enlisting on his side the sympathy and
inteUigence of all the rational elements in the com-
munity. The members of the Board of Health for the

most part seconded him loyally, and the secretary,
Mr. Alderman Butler, was unremitting in his exertions ;
among the names of those to whom he records special
obligation it is pleasant to read the name of Charles
Neate, the truculent and accomplished Fellow of Oriel,

whose hand-to-hand encounter with Bethell is now only
a dimly-remembered tradition of the Bar.

   The absence from Oxford of the members of the Uni-

versity, due to the Long Vacation, removed one great
source of anxiety, but it deprived Acland of the assistance
which the counsel and authority of heads and tutors

had afforded during previous outbreaks ; and such
authority was sorely needed. The Guardians as a

whole fell far behind the more enlightened members
of the Board of Health ; their notions of sanitary science
and of the prevention of disease were on a par with
those of the up-country Boer women. The callous-

ness and stupidity displayed by one member of their

body in particular wellnigh drove Acland to despair \

Popular prejudice rendered the removal of the sick to

a regular hospital, or pest-house as it was termed,
difficult and often impracticable. The cases were
attended as far as possible in the houses of the persons
affected. But a large open space was secured in the
north of Jericho as a field of observation, where accom-
modation was provided by night and day for the families
of those attacked, and where a building was erected in

   ^ Some months afterwards he sent to one of the ladies who had

been most zealous and devoted in her labours among the sick
a little picture of St. Margaret trampling on a dragon whose features

bore a fancied resemblance to the recalcitrant Guardian.
I90  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

which cases of cholera among the inhabitants of the
field, or among casual persons without a home, might
be treated. Here also was placed a temporary laundry

for examining, washing, and purifying clothes and bed-
ding, and a shed was prepared as a shelter for the
bodies of the dead. No house could be obtained in or
out of Oxford for the reception of the convalescents,

and it was necessary to provide accommodation for

them in a close separated by a garden from the field

of observation ; and here among the sick, the recover-

ing, and those yet in health, Charles Marriott, the saintly
friend of Newman and of Pusey, was to be found day

by day, working, praying, consoling.

   Such arrangements, imperfect as they were, owed
their existence to the pressure of sudden and over-
whelming necessity. They were those of all the
departments provided in the emergency upon which
Acland looked back with least satisfaction. Our own

experiences with the Concentration Camps in South
Africa will help us to appreciate his feeling. But there
was no choice, and the need of the hour was to make

the best use of such means for combating the disease
as could be improvised with least delay. And there
was a constant battle to be waged with the interference
and the ill-judged parsimony of some of those in

authority, to whom expense was a nightmare far
transcending the fear of infection or the demands of
humanity. The issue of nourishing food to the necessi-

tous poor in certain infected districts was judged by

Acland to be absolutely essential if they were to be
kept from succumbing to the disease. This was stopped
by the Guardians, and left to the operation of private
generosity, Acland himself undertaking the responsi-
bility. The funds were soon forthcoming, and Dr. Pusey
placed the kitchen of Christ Church at his disposal for
this purpose. It was admitted that but for the almost
unlimited distribution of broth and other nourishing food
Oxford would have suffered a far heavier death-roll.
1856]  THE CHOLERA  191

   The organization of the nursing-staff had to be under-
taken from the beginning : nursing as a profession was
still largely in the hands of the Gamps and Prigs or of

utterly unskilled amateurs, though only a few weeks
were to elapse before Miss Nightingale was to begin
her labours in the Crimean hospitals. Acland was
fortunate in gathering round him a band of competent
and well-conducted helpers. Some of the Oxford ladies
responded nobly to the call. One of them visited daily
every house within a certain district ' to instruct the

nurses, to cheer the sick, and, where occasion arose,

herself to supply a sudden emergency or relieve
a wearied attendant.' Those who have read the
recently-published memoir of Miss Felicia Skene will
understand the invaluable assistance which she was

able to render to the sufferers and to all who were

engaged in their behalf, and will appreciate the regard
and admiration which Acland felt for her during the
remainder of their lives. Another of the most devoted

and most helpful of the lady volunteers. Miss Hughes,
now Mother Superior of the Anglican Convent of the
Holy Trinity, still resides in Oxford, almost the last
survivor of Acland's fellow-workers in the epidemic
of 1854.

   And terrible were some of the scenes amid which

doctors and nurses had to labour :

   Soon after five one morning a woman awoke in the agony
of cramps with intense and sudden collapse. She was seen
at six. There was in her room no article of furniture but one
broken chair ; no bed of any kind, no fire, no food ; she lay
on the bare boards ; a bundle of old sacking served for

a pillow; she had no blanket nor any covering but the

ragged cotton clothes she had on. She rolled, screaming.

One woman scarcely sober sat by, with a pipe in her mouth,

looking on. To treat her in this state was hopeless. She
was to be removed. There was a press of work at the
hospital and a delay. When the carriers came her saturated

garments were stripped off, and in the finer linen and blankets
192  HENRY ACLAND  [1847-

of a wealthier woman she was borne away-- and in the hospital
she died. Her room was cleaned out : the woman that
cleaned it had next night the cholera. She and her husband
were drunk in bed. The agony sobered her, but her husband
went reeling about the room : in a room below were smokers
and drinkers. Then a woman of the streets in her gaudiness

came to see her. They would not hear reason, but drank
more spirits. The victim of the disease cried out to the end

that her soul was everlastingly lost ; and she died.

   The epidemic ran its course ; a heavy rate was
required to meet the cost; the bill was presented and
paid ^ and from that hour Oxford has been free from
any serious epidemic. Its immunity is largely due to
the lessons of the cholera, and to the complete recon-
struction of its water-supply and sanitary arrangements,
at which Acland never ceased to labour. What he

had seen and experienced during the outbreak -*vas
to a certain extent only a confirmation of certain facts

and truths with which he had long been acquainted.
But he had learnt much, and he was resolved that the

fruits of his experience should not be lost. He set at
once to work, and prepared a Memoir on the Cholera
at Oxford in the Year 18^4, with Considerations sug-
gested by the Epidemic, which was published in 1856.
In it he carefully traced the course of the disease in
Oxford and the neighbourhood, set out the local causes
which had influenced its progress for good or evil,
described the arrangements which had been made in
Oxford, and discussed the various modes of treatment

for cholera and its analogues.
   The book was furnished with maps and diagrams.

In one of these the daily number of cases of cholera

and choleraic diarrhoea reported during the epidemic

was tabulated, together with the daily maximum and

   ' Acland himself declined to accept any remuneration for his

labours as Consulting Physician to the Board of Health. A vote of

thanks to him for his services during the epidemic was passed by
the Guardians on June 14, 1855.
1856]  THE CHOLERA                                           193

minimum of temperature of the air, the degree of

moisture, the amount of rain, the force and direction

of the wind and the amount of cloud, the meteorological

data being furnished by Manuel Johnson, the Radcliffe

Observer. Another showed the localities in which the

cholera had occurred in the three epidemics, together

with the parts of the city which had been pronounced

unhealthy previously to the last outbreak, the districts

still undrained, and the parts of the river left con-

taminated by sewage after the visitation of the year
1854. For much of the infinite drudgery and painful
exactitude required to render this and the other maps

complete Acland was indebted to his sister-in-law,
Miss Phoebe Cotton. It was destined to be one of the

last labours of her life.

The work, however, was by no means confined to

a record of dry statistics. Scattered through its pages
are most interesting side-lights on the social history of

the day : Acland's somewhat discursive pen carries him

over the whole field of sanitary science and of * The

condition of England question.' He deals with ventila-

tion, with drainage, with the disposition of town sewage,

with poor-law medical administration, with parochial

nursing, and with the management of hospitals. How

far he was in advance of his time it is difficult for us

now to imagine, but the widespread impression created

by the book may be taken as some measure of the

novelty of the views enunciated in                   One chapter
                                                  it.

                                                          \
of On the Connexion between Mental Cultivation
a
and Physical Improvement,' was reprinted separately on
   '
the suggestion of some Oxford working-men and,
       a it,
                  *
                                               a
under the title of Health, Work and Play, enjoyed

wide circulation.

Both by the medical profession and by the public at

large the book was read with avidity, and the letters

     One of these was resident in 'the Friars'-- part of the citya
where the foul condition of the river and its floods of sewage matter
were constant scandal.

                                                             O
194                  HENRY ACLAND                               [1847-

received by the author from those best quaHfied to

judge of its merits form an interesting collection.
I venture to quote two examples, neither of them from
specialists. Bishop Wilberforce wrote :

   Many thanks for your great kindness in sending me your
book. I have devoured a great deal of it with intense
interest : especially the part on Work and its moral effects --

your old carpenter, the connexion between religious habits

and healthfulness, &c., and the Thames Valley. It quite
revives my spirit to come on the thoughts of one like you,

to whom God has given at once the Scientific and Religious
Mind, the mind of a Christian Philosopher'.

   The other letter, of a very different character, is from
the Dowager Duchess of Argyll, the widowed step-
mother of the late Duke ; and I venture to print it

because it throws light, not only on the beautiful
character of the writer, but on the earliest visitation of

the cholera to this country.

                                   May 6, 1856.

How very kind it is of you to send me such a book as

yours, and on such a subject. What a laborious task it must

have been to compile this ; it is beautiful, the maps are very
'Ibeautiful and wonderful.
                            shall at the least read the
Preface' -- nay, the whole, with deep interest, however
incapable I am of estimating the value of such a work.

'Many thanks' does not convey my real feeling, I shall

lay the book before the Duke, and beg him to do what is

impossible for me -- use it for his country's good if he can.
  When I see you again I could tell you much that would be

^ The conclusion of the letter is too characteristic to be omitted,

though quite irrelevant to the subject of this chapter. 'There was

one expression of yours the other day as to which I must ask 3'ou.
When I came into your drawing-room you told me you had been

t"eWllinhgyMwrisll.  Acland about my sermon, and that her last  words were,
                     he preach such sermons ? " Did that mean   that in your

judgement it was not the useful sort of sermon for that time and

place ? If it did, in God's name, my dear friend, tell me more
fully your view. If not, it matters not.'
1856]  THE CHOLERA                             195

of interest regarding the cholera as it came to us in the West
of Scotland in 1832. Its approach was so dreaded. It was
like a knell to my careless heart-- one of the first successful

knockings thereat. I was just one year married, and had

the anxious care of three very delicate children, who were
in some sense dearer to me than if they were my own : for

they made up the happiness of one whom I loved as my own
soul. We were sadly perplexed when it was rumoured that

the pestilence had already appeared at Gateshead, and often
spoke of the horror of seeing it in our own nursery.

   No one was less fitted than I was to bear up under this,

for, naturally anxious myself, and seeing the one to whom

I looked so very much so, I felt the evil was to be met, but
I could not make up my mind how. ' God's ways are not

as our ways are.* And when the disease did actually come,
my surprise was to find that neither my dear husband nor
myself were really afraid. The sound of its ravages 200 miles
off was so much more fearful than when we were told it was

at Helensburgh. Lord John Campbell ^ had laid up all kinds
of stores, and built a large oven and bake-house, so that we

should not go to the village to buy bread, but shut up the

gates of Arderachter until the storm should be past. None
of these precautions were ever used. When he found that

the gentlemen in the neighbourhood were afraid, and would

not move as to a Board of Health, he came out of his den !

Every day at 11 o'clock he was presiding at a Board of

Health, which met at his own lodge gatehouse.  He saw

Dr. Fergusson, whom he appointed and paid, and heard

from him all the wants and wishes, distributed medicine and

flannels and hot-water bottles himself, without the usual care

of wearing camphor or anything else to hinder infection.

   Quite fearless as regarded himself or me, but not as to his
children ; for he never saw them after his Board-meeting with-

out a change of clothes. I accompanied him daily, having

no fear for myself, only for him ; and desirous that he should

not be near the doctor if he had seen the disease that day,

for we believed it infectious. At the end of three months

there had been only nine cases and six deaths, and the Hand

was withdrawn which sent the disease to our locality, the

       ^ Her husband.

       O2
196 HENRY ACLAND

doctor no longer excluded from the Castle, and all the

neighbours astonished at the risk which they said Lord John
Campbell had run ! Lord John saw it was otherwise. He
often said it was of God that he was enabled to do the service
that he did. The Board of Health consisted of the Elders
of the Kirk, the Magistrates of the Burgh, and himself their
President, with Dr. Fergusson, who afterwards went to India
and died there ; indeed, I believe that I am the only one
alive who took part in the scene. I feel that it is recorded as
regards those now at rest 'That they did it unto Him.' May
it be so of all those who like yourself have ministered to their

fellow men under this strange disease !

   Only in 1832 it was very different in many respects from
its effects in 1849 and 1854. It seemed such suffering in
1832 ; in 1849 and 1854 quite the reverse. It was a painless,
powerless death, with the mind alive and entire. In 1832 such
cramps and spasms, and the terror amounting, Dr. Chalmers

said, to despair at once.

   I remember in 1849 Dr. Sutherland coming to Helens-

burgh ; it was a damp, very peculiar fog. He foretold the
approach of cholera, but was not believed. That very
evening a gentleman in a healthy situation above the town
of Helensburgh was the first attacked, and died. I am
thinking aloud too long and writing the memories of those

days, and forgetting that you have no time for my dreams.
   May God bless your labour for the sick and poor !
             CHAPTER VIII

   THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM

               1848-1859

   The publication of the cholera memoir raised Acland

from the position of a country physician in good practice
to that of an authority on sanitary and hygienic ques-

tions, of acknowledged repute not only at home, but on

the Continent, and, as he was soon to discover, in Canada

and the United States of America. He had become the

pioneer of much that is now recognized as essential in

the treatment of the sick ; and while he had been toil-

ing at his profession, grappling with the epidemic, and

recording in print the lessons to be derived from an
                        '
even harder battle had been fought and won over the
                               it
subject of scientific education in Oxford.
  We have seen in previous chapter that Acland,                  '
               a
smarting under the rebuff contained in Dean Buckland'sa        ^' ; it,

letter, had set himself down to work and wait.' Keep-

ing the erection of common home for the sciences ever

before him as the end to which all else must be

subordinated, he felt, now that the efforts of the science

teachers had been thwarted, that  was essential to

appeal to wider public. To enlist such support on
   a
            a
anything like  sufficient scale involved the usual

kind of laborious agitation that men who are bent upon

an object in this country with which object their fellow

creatures do not sympathize have to go through the

writing of hundreds and thousands of letters, the obtain-

ing the services of persons more or less interested in the

matter, the getting together supporters of all kinds

     Acland's evidence before the Royal Commission on Scientific^
Instruction and the Advancement of Science, 1872 (c. 536), xxvi,
p. 171.
198  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

   Eventually a very heterogeneous collection of helpers
was brought together, but in the earliest days the move-
ment was strictly confined to a small knot of resident
members of the University, and it was Acland himself
who in the midst of his busy professional life found time

to undertake this enormous correspondence, with all the

labour and anxieties which it entailed. The first prac-
tical step was taken at a meeting held on May 9, 1849,
in the lodgings of the Warden of New College ^ There
were some twenty members of Convocation present,

and the following resolutions were adopted, in the draft-
ing of which Acland's hand may clearly be seen :

      (i) Proposed by the Principal of B.N.C.^ and seconded
by Dr. Daubeny :

   That whereas the rooms provided by the University for
lectures on subjects connected with Natural Science are
already insufficient and inconvenient and will hereafter be
unequal to the requirements of the place, it is desirable that

measures should be at once taken to supply the want.
      (2) Proposed by the Master of Pembroke ^, and seconded

by the Rev. R. Walker :
   That whereas it would be consistent with a philosophical view

of the connexion of the natural sciences that all the materials
explanatory of the organic beings placed upon the globe shall
be arranged in distinct departments under one roof, together

with fit accommodation for preparing, studying, and lecturing
on the same, it is much to be desired that a building should
be erected within the University in which these several

objects may be carried out.

   Those present at the meeting who approved of the
resolutions were formed into a committee for the pur-
pose of inquiring into the best means of securing the
erection of the proposed building, which was hence-
forward by common usage alluded to as * the Museum.'
The chairman was the Warden of New College; the

   ' The Rev. D. Williams, D.D.
   ^ The Rev. R. Harington, D.D.
   ' The Rev. F. Jeune, D.D., afterwards Bishop of Peterborough.
i859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 199

Rev. Richard Greswell of Worcester was the treasurer;

and Acland, the Rev. R. Walker, and the Rev. E. Hill

were appointed secretaries. The following gave the
support of their names to the committee : The Rector of
Exeter^, the Principal of B.N.C., the Master of Pembroke,
Dr. Jacobson (Regius Professor of Divinity), Dr. Dau-
beny, the Vice-Principal of Magdalen Hall-, William
Fishburne Donkin (Savilian Professor of Astronomy),
the Rev. Baden Powell (Savilian Professor of Geometry),
Manuel Johnson (the Radcliffe Observer), the Rev. H.
Binney of Worcester, the Rev. C. R. Conybeare of
Christ Church, the Rev. W. B. Heathcote of New
College, the Rev. Charles Marriott of Oriel, the Rev.
A. P. Stanley" of University, and the Rev. W. Thom-
son* of Queen's. These were the pioneers of the
Museum, and out of the twenty all but three were

clergymen.

  A copy of the resolutions was widely circulated in the

University, and by the end of the month the Oxford
Museum Committee was in full working order. It now

consisted of sixty members, and had gathered some

notable additions. Among them were Dean Buckland

(who had been present at the original meeting, but had
then adhered to the views expressed in his famous
letter), Bishop Wilberforce, the Provost of Oriel ^, the
President of St. John's'', the President of Corpus', the

Warden of All Souls ^ Dr. Pusey, Dr. Jelf, the Margaret

Professor of Divinity^, the Proctors, the Regius Pro-

» The Rev. J. L. Richards, D.D.    ^ -phe Rev. R. Michell.

^ Afterwards Dean of Westminster.

* Afterwards Archbishop of York.
^ The Rev. E. Hawkins, D.D.

« The Rev. P. Wynter, D.D.

^ The Rev. J. Norris, D.D.

8 The Rev. L. Sneyd, M.A.
' The Rev. G. Faussett, D.D., of whom we have read on an

earlier page ; he was anxious perhaps to remove the evil smells of
the Christ Church experiments as far away from his stables as

possible.
200  HENRY ACLAND           [1847-

fessor of Ecclesiastical History \ Professor J. W.Wilson,

the Rev. F. Bulley of Magdalen, the Rev. D. P. Chase
of Oriel, the Rev. R. W. Church of OrieP, the Rev.
Osborne Gordon of Christ Church, the Rev. H. L.
ManseP of St. John's, and the Rev. W. Sewell of

Exeter.
   The next thing to be done was to circulate an appeal

for funds. Twenty years previously considerable sub-
scriptions had been offered for the erection of a new
museum, and though the scheme had then been laid

aside, it was hoped that a similar readiness to contribute
might still be reckoned on. The several Professors and

Readers engaged in science teaching were asked to assist

the committee with their opinions as to the requirements
of their various departments. Mr. Story-Maskelyne, the
Praelector of Mineralogy, and now the only survivor of

those days, furnished a careful minute as to the various

principles on which museums were lighted and arranged;

a report was drawn up by the Rev. John Ley of Exeter,
and a local architect (Mr. Underwood of Beaumont
Street) was consulted as to the probable cost of a build-
ing containing the necessary accommodation. His rough
estimate for such a building, of average decoration and

substantial character, with all ordinary internal fittings,

was from ;£i"25,ooo to ;^3o,ooo.
   Lastly, a meeting of graduates and others who were

favourable to the project was summoned in the Shel-

donian Theatre for June 19, 1849, ^^ which resolutions
in support of the erection of the Museum, ' in order to
carry into effect the vote of Convocation which estab-
lished a School of Natural Science,' were enthusiastically
carried. Subscriptions to the amount of nearly ;!^3,ooo
were promised. Mr. Greswell headed the list by a dona-
tion of £250, subsequently raised to .^400, with an ad-
ditional ^100 for an Antiquarian Museum. Acland
himself contributed ^100, as did Sir Robert Inglis,

1 The Rev. R. Hussey, B.D.  2 Afterwards Dean of St. Paul's.
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 201

Mr. Gladstone, Sir Robert Peel, and some twelve or
thirteen others. In the autumn it was announced that
the authorities of Merton would be prepared to receive an
application on the part of the Museum Committee for the
acquisition of a part of their land known as ' the Parks.'

   In June of the following year the Oxford Museum
Committee issued a formal appeal to the University.
They explained that they had abstained from soliciting

further contributions until the Statute for estabhsh-
ing a School of Physical Science should have been
formally passed ; and they were now able to state that
the Hebdomadal Board had been pleased to sanction
their undertaking, and had appointed a Committee to
consider * the probable wants of the University in regard
to the proposed Museum, to examination schools, and
to public lecture-rooms.'

   With respect to the extent of the plan hereafter to be sub-

mitted to Convocation (they continued), it would be premature
at present to make any precise statement ; but there is reason
to expect that it will eventually include adequate room for
the reception of Zoological, Geological, Mineralogical, Ana-
tomical, and Chemical Collections ; for a series of apparatus of
experimental philosophy, together with lecture-rooms, labora-
tories, &c. for the use of the Professors and students of these
several departments of Science ; for the valuable Entomo-
logical Collection and Library lately presented by Mr. Hope;
for a general Scientific Library and possibly for a Collection of
Antiquities.

   The purchase of the land and the erection of a building

on such a scale as would answer the purposes of science
and befit the character of the University must involve
a very large expenditure.

   And although it is not doubted that the members of Con-
vocation will cordially approve of a liberal application of any
funds at their disposal to the promotion of the Physical
Sciences, in order to give full effect to the Statute recently
passed, it may well be thought that, considering the many
202  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

important objects which the University is bound to support,
an undue proportion of her means should not be exhausted

on any one.'

   An appeal was therefore made to the liberality of
individual members, and a fresh avalanche of circulars

and letters, inspired and in most cases written by Acland,
descended upon all likely and unlikely persons. The
Duke of Wellington, as Chancellor of the University,
was naturally among the first to be memorialized, and
his answer has been preserved :

                                                         London, August 12, 1850.

   The Duke of Wellington presents his compliments to
Mr. Acland. He has received his letter.

   The duke will subscribe or not to the expense of construct-
ing the new Museum when he sees the list of subscribers.
He is ready to peruse any documents, but he begs leave to

decline to receive visits.

   The Great Duke had died before the project had made

any material progress, and meanwhile the subscription

list was mounting very slowly. To raise any appreciable
portion of the initial ^^"30,000 was apparently beyond the
resources of private generosity, and there were many

Jwho felt, in the words used by Dr. elf to Acland, ' that

Alma Mater was rich enough to provide intellectual
house-room for her children.' Dr. Cotton of Wor-

cester, who had succeeded Plumptre as Vice-Chancellor,
was strongly of this opinion ; and Acland's delight may
be imagined when the former told him one day that he

thought the University authorities might be persuaded

to vote the requisite amount.

  A large sum of money (nearly i^6o,ooo) was then in

the hands of the Curators of the Chest. It was derived
from the profits of the Clarendon Press, and its existence
had apparently been unknown outside the inner ring of
those responsible for the management of the University

finances until it was transferred from the Press account

to the general account of the University. At any rate,
i859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 203

it came as a surprise to the Oxford world generally, and
the first attempt at its appropriation to the educational
needs of the University was not well received. In June,

1851, a vote was proposed in Convocation to allocate
the sum of ;^53,ooo towards the erection or repairs of
examination schools, lecture-rooms, aitd a Museum.
No definite plan was laid down as to how the money

was to be expended, or what portions were to be

assigned to the various objects specified. This am-

biguity was by no means satisfactory to the Museum

Committee, and in other quarters strong opposition

was aroused. A few days before the meeting of Con-

vocation an anonymous pamphlet, generally attributed

to Pusey, vehemently denounced the proposed Statute.

This windfall, the writer declared, which had come so
unexpectedly into the hands of the University, was

derived mostly, according to common belief, * from a
very sacred source, the profits upon the privilege of
printing God's Word.' By means of it the influence
of the University system might have been extended by
aiding in different ways the admission of poor scholars
or by the extension of the Professoriate. As it was, the
haste which was being displayed in the matter gave the
proposed Statute the appearance ' of a hurried attempt
to remove money out of the way of thieves,' and to
close the door upon any project for employing it for the
benefit of the poor.

   The Statute was rejected by a large majority, but the

Museum Committee did not in any way relax their

labours, and they w^ere strengthened and encouraged
by the recommendations of the University Commis-
sioners, made in May of the following year (1852) :

   That the University should proceed with the plan lately
brought forward for building a great Museum for all depart-
ments of physical science, with proper lecture-rooms, labora-
tories, and apparatus for lectures. That the trustees of the
present collections of various kinds should be empowered

to transfer their collections to this Museum ; and that the
204  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

Curators of the Museum should be the Professors of Physical
Science.

   The Committee of the Hebdomadal Board continued
to sit, and went so far as to call on Acland and Gres-
well to enlighten them on the size of the projected
buildings and on other points. But their proceedings
were slow and deliberate, and a meeting of the Museum

Committee had to be summoned to memorialize the

Heads of Houses to take immediate steps towards

erecting the new Museum.
   The memorial was successful, and at last, on February

17, 1853, Convocation voted that a Delegacy should be

appointed to prepare a report on the buildings requisite
for the study of Natural History and Physiology in

such a form as might be laid before an architect. It

was also decreed that the report should on a subsequent
day be submitted to the approbation of the House,
together with an estimate of the probable expense of

the buildings recommended.

   While the Delegacy was preparing the report, a pro-
test was circulated against the adoption of the Parks
as a site for the projected Museum. It was declared to
be inconvenient in point of distance, and to involve the
sacrifice ' of a most convenient and healthy walk,'
though, as a matter of fact, the actual site proposed
for the Museum was then a ploughed field. To this

it was answered that the only other possible site was at
the extremity of Broad Street, and that the price asked

for it was so prohibitive and crippling that it would
entail the indefinite postponement of the building

operations.
   On May 20, 1853, the Delegacy issued their report.

It was satisfactory to the Museum Committee, who

found that ' although sufficiently moderate in its pro-

posals, the scheme recommended was at once philo-

sophical, compact, convenient, and conceived not only
for our present needs but for posterity.' Convocation
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 205

approved the report on the 24th of the same month,
and in December the University seal was affixed to
an agreement with Merton for the purchase of four acres

in the Parks at the price of ^4,000 \ On January 31,

1854, a further Delegacy was appointed, 'To consider

the question of erecting a Museum, with particular
reference to the principle of constructing a building
surrounding three sides of an area, which should be
covered in and applied to the purpose of a general
museum, receiving light from the roof.' And on April 8,

the same tedious process was gone through, and another

Delegacy was appointed for the purpose of obtaining

Designs mtd Estimates from Architects, of examining and

selecting from them, and of reporting thereon for the

approval of the House.
   The members of this latter Delegacy are worthy of

record. They were the Vice-Chancellor (Dr. Cotton
of Worcester), the President of St. John's (Dr. Wynter),
the Master of University (Dr. Plumptre), the Warden
of New College (Dr. Williams), the Master of Pembroke
(Dr. Jeune), the Principal of New Inn Hall (Dr. Welles-
ley), the two Proctors (the Rev. D. P. Chase and the

Rev. J. W. Knott), Professor Daubeny, the Lee's

Reader (Dr. Acland), Professor Bartholomew Price,

J. Philhps (Deputy-Professor of Geology), Manuel

Johnson (Radcliffe Observer), the Rev. W. Hedley of
University, the Rev. T. Chaffers of B.N.C., the Rev.

J. W. Burgon of Oriel, and the Rev. George Butler of

Exeter.

   For the guidance of the competing architects a small
pamphlet was issued, containing a statement of the
requirements of the Museum and a plan of its site.
No limitations as to the style of architecture were
imposed, but the Museum was required to be a building
of two stories in height, in the form of three sides of

a quadrangle and with the area covered in by a glass
roof, the fourth side being so adapted as to admit of

         ^ The remainder was acquired in the following June.
2o6  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

extension of the building at some future period. Archi-
tects were reminded that excellence of interior arrange-
ment would be judged more essential than exterior

decoration, and each plan was to be accompanied by
an estimate of the cost. The Delegacy was not em-
powered to entertain any plans of which the estimate

exceeded ;^30,ooo ^, but this sum was not to include the
general arrangement and ventilation of the area, the
ventilation of the passages, the gas apparatus, drainage,

and water-supply.
   In answer to this invitation thirty-two designs were

received, and were exhibited to the public on screens
in the gallery of the Radcliffe Camera. On the first

analysis six were selected, and after further examination

two, bearing respectively the mottoes, Fiat justitia, ruat
coelum and Nisi Dominus aedificaverit domum, were

reported to Convocation as being suitable, with moderate

changes and substitutions, for the purposes contemplated.
Acland seized the opportunity of inviting the Members
of Convocation and other residents in Oxford to a con-

versazione at the Radcliffe on December 9, 1854, to

view the plans and listen to a statement concerning
them. The invitation card announced that ' at 10 p.m.
the National Anthem will be sung : all present are

requested to join.' It was in the depth of the Crimean

winter, and we who have gone through the black week
of December, 1899, can understand the feeling that lay
beneath this apparently superfluous announcement.

   On December 12, 1854, Convocation was called upon
to vote whether either-- and if either, which --of the
two plans. Fiat Justitia and Nisi Doininus, should be
adopted. As to the merits of the two designs there
was wide difference of opinion. Fiat Justitia was
Palladian in character. Nisi Dominus was described

  ^ This was practically all that was left of the ^60,000 transferred

from the Press account. ;!^23,ooo had been appropriated to the
improvement of Professorships, and £3,000 had gone to provide an
assistant to the Professor of Chemistry.
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 207

as ' Rhenish Gothic,' though to the eyes of Professor
Hort of Cambridge it was * Veronese Gothic of the best
and manhest type in a new and striking combination.'
On the eve of the poll a leaflet, signed EPrATH2), was
circulated, in which it is not difficult to detect Acland's
style. The writer was strongly in favour of Nisi
Domimis on the ground, amongst others, that Fiat
Justitia, ' though a carefully prepared design for an
edifice adapted to a confined site, was not such a struc-
ture as the Oxford Delegates required.' The rooms,
it was pointed out, and lecture theatres were placed on
three floors instead of on two, only two-thirds of the plan
could be erected for the sum allowed, leaving the
University, for the time at least, with an unfinished,
incomplete building on its hand. And the laboratory
and yard of the Physiological Department were to be
placed within the mass of the building from which they
ought to be absolutely detached. On the other hand,
Nisi Dominus, in the writer's judgement, furnished all
that the University required for the practical purpose of
a museum.

    The large central museum space can, of course, be fitted
in any way the collections require. The handsome arcaded
corridors surrounding the central space will be both beautiful
andconvenient for communication andfor the display of objects.
 Mr. Hope's museum (which by deed we are bound to provide
 for, and by gratitude to provide for liberally), together with
 his library, very properly forms the most important features
 in the edifice, occupying the whole front on the first floor.
 The large laboratory is wholly detached ; and there are

 yards separate from the main building for all offensive pur-
 poses connected with the zoological, dissecting, chemical, and
 experimental departments. Whether these arrangements
 ought or ought not to be placed in an edifice harmonizing
 with the collegiate associations of Oxford, is a point which
 there are many more competent to discuss than myself; but
 it may be fairly asked whether it is desirable to detach these

 new sciences from those old associations ? and whether they
2o8  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

cannot be combined with our old architecture, as in Nisi

Dominus they are ?

    But there was a formidable party in the University to
whom the niceties of architectural construction and the
requirements of scientific students were alike indifferent.

  Let us vote against both plans ' was the burden of one
of the protests. It was argued that the University was
being asked to sacrifice practically the whole of its
savings for studies that were, to say the least, 'not
extensively pursued,' and that if it was really necessary
to have a costly museum instead of * a few more rooms,'
the expense ought to be spread over a number of years.
The architects of both plans were accused of having

enormously underestimated the cost, which, it was

asserted, would swallow up from first to last something
not far short of ;^ioo,ooo.

   To this last assertion the Rev. George Butler ^, who

had become Secretary to the Museum Delegacy, replied

that he had in his possession offers from responsible

contractors undertaking to execute either plan within
the ;^3o,ooo. But the assaults and misstatements came

from all quarters.

   Are Members of Convocation aware (asked another oppo-
nent) that it is only in compo {sic) that either of the two
designs can be executed for a sum at all approximating to

the ^30,000 voted by Convocation? Will members of Con-

vocation consent to sacrifice the Parks for a compo building ?
Lastly, is it fair to those architects who sent in designs for

plain buildings which could be completed in stone for the

sum named, to accept a design pretentious on paper but compo

in execution ?

  A third pamphlet assumed a graver and more vindic-

tive tone, combined, however, with equal looseness of

fact:

   With a notice of three days only, and one of them Sunday,
the Hebdomadal Council has called on Members of Convo-

     ' Fellow of Exeter, and afterwards Canon of Winchester.
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 209

cation to commit the University purse into the hands of
a set of visionary schemers and theorists, to found and com-

plete a building which the most eminent authority procurable
in the kingdom has pronounced undesirable as to plan and

detail \ impossible as to anything approaching the stated cost.

Being unwilling to permit any such a Delegacy to play ducks

and drakes with our Funds I earnestly call upon you to

attend Convocation to-morrow at 2 o'clock, and to save Alma

Mater from taking the dreadful jump in the dark so adroitly
laid open for her. Where is the subscription list of 1848'^?

Is the Museum required ? We have two Museums as yet
unused and unfrequented. Sell off your Cowley Cricket
Ground and let the Parks (a most praiseworthy purchase) be
converted into a place of exercise and recreation for Members
of the University and other residents amongst us. Is there
one shilling at hand to endow this gigantic Babylon^? Non

Placet the proposition and we may yet be saved.

   The elements of opposition were of a very diverse
character. The conservatism of the University in

matters academical had been sorely tried by the Com-
mission of 1850, and by the bill founded on its recom-
mendations v;^hich had just passed through Parhament.
There was a thrill of jealousy at the notion of devoting
a huge sum of money to objects which were held to be

newfangled if not mischievous. Few of the older dons
had the smallest conception of a modern museum or

its uses; their simple requirements and their dormant
curiosity were amply satisfied by the Ashmolean Collec-
tion and by the insect-eaten hyena which had been the
admiration of their fathers. Mineralogy and Physics

* Who this most eminent authority may have been I am unable

to say.

"^  See p. 225,  note, infra.     hanging  gardens  of that long defunct
    In allusion  possibly to the
'

city. A vision of Nebuchadnezzar in his pride and in his fall may

also have been before the writer. The suggestion as to turning the

Parks into a cricket and football ground shows an 'intelligent
anticipation of future events ' ; its full realization was a long time in

coming.

                                  P
2IO  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

and Anatomy and Biology were alien bodies in that flood
of ancient learning which, to use the immortal words of
Dean Gaisford's Christmas sermon, ' not only elevates
above the vulgar herd, but leads not infrequently to
positions of considerable emolument.' Dr. Plumptre
thought he had clinched the matter when he said to
Acland, ' You want to have an immense place built here
with great Ubraries and workshops and all manner of
organization. How many people do you think are going
to use it ? ' To such a thrust Acland returned the only
parry, ' You must have a first-class apparatus if you

want to have first-class men.'

   The economists stood aghast at the expense, and it

may be frankly acknowledged that the most ardent
promoters of the scheme hardly anticipated the full
extent of the obligations to which the University was
committing itself, or the constant drain that would be

made in future years upon very insufficient resources.

A certain class of theologians dreaded the dissolvent

effect of science, 'falsely so called,' upon the literal
interpretation of the Books of Moses. There was
a thumping of pulpit-cushions, and one divine, after
the Museum had become an accomplished fact, would
never allude to it save as 'the cockatrice's den.'

Happily the most influential and most venerated of
the religious leaders of the University took a broader
view. Acland's bout with Pusey over the teaching of

science has been narrated on an earlier page. Nothing

in the intervening years had occurred to weaken the

impression produced on that occasion; Pusey might

have desired that the money should have gone to the
support of poor scholars, but he felt that under the
guidance of a man of Acland's disposition and character
the hidden laws of the natural world might be studied
without danger by the Oxford undergraduates. Accord-
ingly he and Charles Marriott allowed it to be known

to their friends that they were in favour of the vote for
the Museum, and they attended in support of it on
i859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 211

December 11, 1854. It was they who turned the scale ;

the division was close, sixty-eight to sixty-four ; had the
old guard of the Tractarian Movement even stood

neutral the vote would have been lost. And I think
I may venture to say that if any other man in Oxford
but Acland had been the originator of the scheme, it

would have met not merely with neutrality, but with
active opposition on the part of Dr. Pusey.

   The design selected for the Museum was that with the
motto Nisi Dominus,2i premium of ;^ioo being awarded to
Fiat Jiistitia, the author of which proved to be Mr. E. M.
Barry, son of the architect of the Houses of Parlia-
ment. The successful design was the work of Benjamin
Woodward, of the Dublin firm of Deane, Woodward
and Deane, 'a man of rare genius and deep artistic
knowledge, beautiful in face and character, but with the
shadow of an early death already stealing over him ^'

   The Museum was not even yet safely in harbour. On
the morrow of the vote of December an ominous little
leaflet had proclaimed that, 'The leap in the dark has

been taken, but we can still stop its worst consequences.'

In May of the following year (1855) the contract was

formally submitted to Convocation, and the opposition
was renewed with unabated vigour, as the following
choice specimen of electioneering literature will show :

   This Babylon of a new Museum is again before us.
   Have we any students in Natural History? No.
   Do we require this new Museum ? No.
   Have we one farthing justly wherewith to build ? No.
   Have we one farthing justly wherewith to endow? No.
   Are these the times for setting about such a folly ? No.

   Another opponent declaredthat, * The plan returns to
you by no means the same ; hacked about, cut up,
altered, and remodelled externally and internally ; in-
deed, as I am credibly informed, externally spoiled.
The contract does not include internal fittings, fences,

                          ^ Tuckwell, Remmiscences, p. 48.
                                                P2
212  HENRY ACLAND                                                                               [1848-

approaches ; " building afterclaps," which may run up

to any sum you please.'

   In answer to this it was pointed out that express pro-
vision had been made in the notice inviting tenders that
the estimate of ^30,000 was not to include fittings and

other specified extras, and that a large additional outlay
beyond the mere cost of the shell of the building for

future maintenance was inevitable. And ' Aliquis/ com-
monly supposed to be Dr. Daubeny, went on to urge
that the deliberate opinion of the majority of Convoca-
tion had already decided the question of the erection of

the Museum on an extensive scale, and that Convocation

could not, with any regard to its own consistency or to
fair dealing, turn round and say that it had changed its

mind, and would not have any museum at all.

   These sound counsels were happily followed, and the

vote was agreed to ; but the constant piecemeal applica-

tions to Convocation for sums large and small were
a source of perpetual irritation and of much practical

inconvenience. It was apparently thought impossible

or inadvisable to make a single bite at the cherry, and
not a term passed without a vote and a squabble. Now

it would be for ;i^2oo for providing some chemistry

apparatus, now ^^2,366 for 'roof, &c.,' now £4^5 for
oiling and painting, now ^^350 for ' paving area,' now
;^2,85o for fittings. The opposition was on the alert at

every stage, and on two occasions at least was tempo-

rarily successful.

   Almost at the last (wrote Acland we lost in Convocation,
by two votes, the burners to the gas-pipes that would light

the area, the vote for the pipes having been carried by two.
The vote for oiling and varnishing all the fine oak window-
frames of the front being lost, they baked unoiled through
the hot summer of 1859.
It

                 ^
                                                                                           ^),

                                                                  a
        may be added that when, as great concession,
Acland was allowed at his own expense to place burners

                   Oxford and Modern Medicine, Preface, p. 11.
i859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 213

on the gas-pipes for the occasion of a conversazione
which he was giving in the unfinished building, it was
only on the condition that they were removed the next

morning!

   But this is to anticipate events. The foundation-stone
of the Museum was laid on June 20, 1855, by Edward
Geoffrey, Earl of Derby, who had succeeded the Duke
of Wellington as Chancellor of the University some
two years previously. The ceremony took place in
Commemoration week, and was brilliantly successful.
The Benedicite, omnia Opera was sung, prayers were
said, and the * Old Hundredth ' was followed by the
National Anthem. Nor would it be possible to express
the spirit which animated Henry Acland in his lifelong
pursuit of science and of truth more aptly than in the
words of one of the collects composed for this occa-

sion :

   As 'the unsearchable riches of Christ' remained a m3^stery
from the beginning of the world, 'hid in God,' 'in other ages
not made known to the sons of men,' till they were 'revealed
to the Holy Apostles and Prophets by the Spirit,' so did
wonderful things in Thy creation long remain unknown to
the world, which Thou hast of late enabled man to discover.
Such discoveries we earnestly entreat Thee to permit Thy

people to carry forward ; and we beseech thee to bless them

to the promotion of Thy glory, and of the temporal and
eternal benefit of mankind. For as the blessed Gospel itself
may be ' a savour of death unto death,' as well as ' of life unto
life,' so may the knowledge of Thy works tend to evil instead
of good. Avert the evil, and promote the good, O merciful

Father. Grant that the building now to be erected on this
spot may foster the progress of those Sciences which reveal

to us the wonders of Thy creative powers. And do Thou,
by Thy heavenly grace, cause the knowledge thus imparted
to us to fill us with apprehension of Thy greatness. Thy
wisdom, and Thy love.

   Both in the Delegacy and outside it Acland had been
one of the strongest supporters of Woodward's design,
214  HENRY ACLAND                                [1848-

and its acceptance by Convocation gave him the most

intense dehght. His joy was shared by Ruskin, who

had thrown himself into the fray with all his customary

eagerness. His approval at first had been by no means
unqualified. ' I think N. D. V he wrote, ' though by no
means a first-rate design, yet quite as good as is likely

to be got in these days, and on the whole good.' By

degrees, however, he waxed warmer, and acquaintance
with Woodward himself made him a complete convert.
On the evening of the day which decided the matter in
Convocation he wrote to Acland :

   I have just received your telegraphic message from Wood-

ward, and am going to thank God for it and lie down to sleep.

It means much, I think, both to you and me. I trust you

will have no anxiety, such as you have borne, to bear again
in this cause. The Museum in your hands, as it must
eventually be, will be the root of as much good to others as
I suppose it is rational for any single living soul to hope to

do in its earth-time.

Nor did his enthusiasm diminish on reflection :

  I hope to be able to get Millais and Rossetti to design

flower and beast borders -- crocodiles and various vermin --
such as you are particularly fond of-- Mrs. Buckland's 'dabby
things '-- and we will carve them and inlay them with Cornish
serpentine all about your windows. I will pay for a good

deal myself, and I doubt not to find funds. Svich capitals as

we will have !

   I have no intention of describing the Oxford Museum.
It stands to-day with its main body and its fa9ade practi-
cally as Woodward designed though the expansions
"^ ^

                                               it,

                                                                                                                                                  ^.
and extensions for which Acland had been careful to

allow have almost doubled its dimensions, and have

made large encroachments on the spacious surround-
                                                                                                                                                      In
ings which formed an essential portion of his plan

     Nisi Dominus.
     During Acland's lifetime laboratories were rebuilt or added
in the following Departments of Science: Physics, Chemistry,
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 215

1859, as the work was nearing completion, Acland, in
conjunction with Ruskin, published a little book, The
Oxford Mtiseit7n, which depicts in clear and eloquent
language the internal and external features of the build-
ing, and reveals the aspirations of those who had laboured
so long against such heavy odds ^ For an independent
and less eulogistic view I am indebted to Mr. Lionel
Muirhead, of Haseley Court, Wallingford, who, though
belonging to a younger generation, entered perhaps more
fully than any of his friends besides Ruskin into the
artistic side of Acland's nature :

   ' Primarily no doubt Acland's long tenacious struggle
to obtain recognition of Natural Science in the Oxford
course of teaching was due to his deep conviction of
the intellectual one-sidedness of the University, so long
as she failed to engraft as a substantial part of the
education of her youth any knowledge of the great
material design of which the supreme Master-worker
has made us a constituent part. When finally the
University decided that the scheme of a Museum of
Natural Science was to be carried out, and when a choice

had to be made from amongst the designs sent in, his
belief in the power of Gothic architecture to adapt
itself to all modern requirements -- a conviction strongly
held by a large number of enthusiastic believers -- caused

him to exert all his influence in its favour. As he

wrote in The Oxford Museum ^ : " Some professed advo-
cates of Gothic architecture on this occasion deprecated

Physiology, Comparative Anatomy, Human Anatomy, and Geology.
With these must be included the Pitt Rivers Museum, with its
work-rooms, and the Astronomical Observatory. Since his death
the new wing for the Radcliflfe Library (due to the generosity of
the Drapers' Company) has been completed.

   ^ The second and subsequent editions were robbed of much of
their value by the omission of Ruskin's contribution, which was
restored in the final edition published in 1893, This last volume
contains the photograph of the two authors, which is reproduced
below facing p. 476.

   2 P. 34, 1859 ed.
2i6            HENRY ACLAND                          [1848-

the application of Gothic art to secular purposes, thereby
denying to their own style that malleability which is

perhaps its highest prerogative."
   ' In the middle of the nineteenth century the Battle of

the Styles, as it was termed, was raging, and enthusiasm
for the forms of severe Pointed architecture was such a
vital force that it would have been surprising, especially

at Oxford, if any other style than that of Pointed archi-

tecture had been adopted for an important building
about to be erected there. Men had not yet come to
realize that the abounding energy of ancient Gothic

building tradition, frozen to death by the refined self-
conscious formal classicism of more than two hundred
years, could not be revivified at a word of command,
not even by earnest enthusiasm seconded by rule and
measurement of ancient buildings. And the Oxford

Museum, though displaying much thought and refine-

ment, on foreign rather than on English national lines,

does not display the spontaneous energy and aptitude
of ancient work. Something of partial failure may be
set down to insufficient means -- responsible for a lack
of massiveness uncharacteristic of Gothic work, which
was ever lavish of means towards the end in view --

coupled with the desire to accomplish for scientific

purposes the utmost possible with the sum set apart
almost grudgingly by the University. Still it is remark-

able that so competent a judge as Sir Charles Newton,
writing to Acland in 1857, says, ** How are you getting
on with the Museum? I was much pleased with its
style of architecture." It is probable that a building
erected at that period on classical lines would have
been not less obnoxious to criticism, and that, as Ruskin

has expressed it :

The real fact
     ;

               is,

                           I
                                                  I
               as far as can discern, that no other

architecture would under the required circumstances have

been possible and that any effort to introduce classical types

of form into these laboratories and Museums must have

ended in ridiculous discomfiture. And although doubt not
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 217

that lovelier and juster expressions of the Gothic principle
will be ultimately arrived at by us than any which are possible
in the Oxford Museum, its builders will never lose their
claim to our chief gratitude, as the first guides in a right
direction ; and the building itself -- the first exponent of the
recovered truth -- will only be the more venerated the more it
is excelled.

    ' Acland's effort was always directed towards combining
the artistic aims of the Museum with its purpose as an

educational institution, and to this end he drew up a
list of great men who first discovered, or first brought
to important results, the several branches of knowledge
which the edifice was intended to promote. And, in

collaboration with Professor Phillips, he gave much time
and attention to the collection and arrangement of one
hundred and twenty-five polished shafts of granite,

syenite, and marbles on the ground-floor, and along the
upper corridors of the Museum, selected from quarries
which furnish examples of many of the most important
rocks of the British Islands. The capitals and bases of
these shafts represent various groups of plants and

animals illustrating different climates and epochs,
arranged according to their natural orders. Unfortu-
nately, out of four hundred capitals and bases about one

hundred only are carved, owing to difficulties that arose
out of want of accommodation between the wayward
genius of the carver O'Shea and the more prosaic
nature of the Delegates. The story is best told in

Acland's own words ' :

   . . . The carvings done by the members of the O'Shea
family were often as beautiful in design as in execution --

...though they would occasionally be as grotesque as the typical
gurgoyle.  It had been intended from the first that all

decoration should illustrate the Kosmos, as religious histories

or allusions for the most part are represented in ecclesiastical

edifices. The workmen generally made the designs for

           ^ See Oxford Museum^ ed. 1893, p. 105.
2i8             HENRY ACLAND                                              [1848-

places and objects appointed to them by the architect. The
upper windows in front were to illustrate some part of
the Fauna and Flora of our planet, the windows on the
south of the front the vertebrate classes : Man, Quadrumana,

Carnivora.
   The second window was first begun by order of the

architect, but probably not by that of the Delegates, it being

Long Vacation.
O'Shea rushed into my house one afternoon and-- in a state
of wild excitement -- related as follows : ' The Master of the
University,' cried he, '
"What are you doing?"                   fsoauynsdhem. e"  on my scaffold  just now.
                                                          Monkeys," said  I. "Come
down directly," says he -- "you shall not destroy the property
o"fCtohemeUndiovwenrsidtyir.e"ctly",I"            Mr, Woodward
                                        work as    "come down."  orders   me."
                                        says he;
                                                                 '

'What shall I do?' said O'Shea to me. 'I don't know:

Mr. Woodward told you monkeys ; the Master tells you no
monkeys : I don't know what you are to do.' He instantly

rushed out as he came, without another word.

The next day I went to see what had happened. O'Shea

was hammering furiously at the window. 'What are you

at?' said    I. 'Cats,' said            he. 'The Master came along,
            " You are doing             monkeys, when I told you not."
and says :

"To-day it's cats," says I.' The Master was terrified, and

went away. It did not, however, so end : O'Shea was
dismissed. I went to bid him good-bye with mixed and

perplexed feelings.

   I found O'Shea on a single ladder in the porch wielding

heavy blows such as one imagines the genius of Michael

Angelo might have struck when he was first blocking out the
design of some immortal work. ' What are you doing, O'Shea?

I thought you were gone ; and Mr. Woodward has given

no design for the long moulding in the hard green stone.'
Striking on still, O'Shea shouted, ' Parrhots and Owwls !

Parrhots and Owwls ! Members of Convocation.' There

they were, blocked out alternately. What could I do?
' Well,' I said meditatively, ' O'Shea, you must knock their
heads off.' ' Never,' says he. ' Directly,' said I.

   Their heads went. Their bodies, not yet evolved, remain

to testify to the humour, the force, the woes, the troubles in
i859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 219

the character and art of our Irish brethren -- much to love,

much to direct, much to lament.

   ' On the keystone of the arch of the entrance of the
Museum there is carved in a low relief the figure of an
angel bearing in his right hand an open book and in
his left hand three living cells. He signifies the in-
tentions of the founders of the Museum, whose desire
it was to bring future generations of men to the study
of the open book of Nature, and of the mysteries of life
under the guidance of a higher Power, which alone could
enable them to read the pages of that book with a right

understanding.
   * When once the building was ready for those who

were to use it for the weighty work of demonstration,
the interest of the artist thenceforward yielded to that
of the Regius Professor of Medicine and Radcliffe
Librarian.'

  I hope I may not seem to have exaggerated the part

which Acland took in the struggle which ended in the
building of the Museum, or to have minimized the
efforts of others who ' wrought and thought and toiled '
to the same end. He himself has declared that he ' was
but a hewer of wood and a drawer of water' beside
Phillips, Strickland, and Rolleston^ But he was the
life and soul, as he was the originator, of the movement.
His position as the creator and the ' only begetter ' of

   ^ The name of H. E. Strickland, geologist and ornithologist, does
not figure, so far as I have discovered, in any printed records of
the struggle for the Museum. He was run over and killed by
a train in 1853. In the same passage from which this quotation
is taken {Address on the unveiling of the statue of Sydenham
(1894), p. 23) Acland adds : ' I was too young to have effected
anything without the countenance and support of older and more
capable men. Before 1850 great advance had been made owing
much to the exertions of Mr. Greswell, Mr. Hill, the Warden of
New College (Dr. Williams), Professor Baden Powell, and at a later
period Mr. (afterwards Sir) Benjamin Brodie, and Mr. Maskelyne,
still happily with us.'
220  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

the Museum has never been disputed. Long after-
wards -- in reference to his speech on the unveiHng of
the statue of Sydenham -- Lord SaHsbury wrote to Sir
Thomas Acland : ' I was very glad to have the oppor-
tunity of expressing feebly the debt which the Uni-
versity owes to your brother for the Museum and all
the intellectual progress of which that building is the
evidence and instrument. He has often had to fight
hard -- and probably no other person could have fought
successfully --against many powerful influences.' The
inception and management of the Museum Committee,
the infinite drudgery of secretarial work, the constant
' lobbying ' necessary for the enrolment of recruits,
the application of the ever-varying argumentum ad
homiiiem, all devolved upon him. His hand is to be
recognized in almost all the statements drawn up for
public circulation ; the drafts of many of them are extant
in his own writing. He served on every delegacy, he
entered into the minutest details. With one or two

exceptions he was the only man in Oxford with any idea
of the arrangement of a museum or of the proper

fittings of a laboratory; and it must be remembered
that at the beginning of his work for the Museum
Acland was a young man of thirty-two who had won no

academic laurels, who had no reputation for scientific
achievement, whose position in the University was that

of a college teacher in a subject which to nine men out

of ten meant nothing ; and that he was mainly depen-
 dent for his daily bread on the practice of a laborious

 and exacting profession.

   It was freely acknowledged at the time, nor has it

 ever been disputed since, that but for his persistence,

 his zeal, and the personal influence which he was able

 to bring to bear in so many different quarters, the estab-
 lishment of Natural Science teaching on a broad and
 philosophic basis, and on a scale worthy of a great

 University, must have been indefinitely postponed.
 The ' new learning ' would have invaded Oxford in due
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 221

course, but it would have come at a later date and

in a different form. Nor is it unlikely that the essential
feature in Acland's plan, the bringing together under
one roof of the scattered branches of all the natural
sciences, would have been sacrificed. It would have

been comparatively easy and simple to obtain occasional
grants for one subject at a time, now for Chemistry,
now for Physics, now for Biology. But the unity and
the dignity of the sciences as a co-ordinated branch of
knowledge would have been left without recognition,
and the great corporation of teachers who form part
of the pride and strength of modern Oxford would
have possessed no common home, and would have
lacked the ready means of communication which Acland
felt to be so essential. Above all, the great boon of
ready access to the magnificent Radcliffe Library would
have been impossible.

   In no part of his career was Acland's artistic sense of
the fitness of things and his power of imaginative fore-
sight of greater value. He would not be content with
a series of detached buildings, however admirably fitted
and well adapted they might individually be, nor would
he have tolerated for an hour the collection of huddled
up boiler-sheds which till lately sheltered the priceless
treasures of South Kensington. He would submit to
no hole-and-corner recognition of science at Oxford, but
demanded for it a home worthy in dignity and beauty.
He has defined his attitude in words which cannot be

bettered ^ :

   I felt that it was not a matter of indifference either to the

country or to the University whether this scientific building
was or was not of equal aesthetic value with the other old
buildings of the University, and I did not choose that those

 gentlemen who devoted their lives to the prosecution of
 material studies so called, or the department of Physical

 Science, should be housed in a worse way according to the

    ^ See his evidence before the Royal Commission on Scientific
  Instruction, 1872 (c. 536), xxvi, pp. 171 et seq.
222  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

ordinary standards of taste than those who pursue their
studies in the Bodleian or in the halls and chapels of our
older colleges. I believe that the condition of the dissecting-
rooms at our hospitals and the kind of wretched accommo-

dation which was thought fit for medical students in many
of the hospitals of the metropolis and elsewhere have been a
perfectly unnecessary bar to the progress of Physical Science
in this country. As a matter of decency towards the pro-

fession in which I happen to be engaged, I do not choose to

admit on public grounds that we are to be put here, there, and

anywhere, and lodged anyhow.

   The adventure with O'Shea which Mr. Muirhead has
quoted will afford an illustration of the interest taken
by Acland in the details of the work, while the Museum,
situated only a few hundred yards from his house in
Broad Street, was rising slowly from the ground. The
minutest details of construction, the artistic ingenuity
with which Woodward encountered every obstacle, the
graceful designs which Mr. Skidmore of Coventry
imparted to the ironwork sustaining the roof of the
area, were all a source of the most intense delight
to him. Dr. Ogle, the Regius Professor of Medicine,
sceptical of the future progress of the sciences in

Oxford, and conscious, perhaps, that he would never
himself live to see the completion of the work,
allowed Acland a free hand in the arrangement of the
rooms allotted to his Chair, In the long gallery,
which he had already marked down as the future

home of the Radclifife Library, he was permitted
to work his own will, and we can imagine him with

such a prospect before his eyes exclaiming, as did
Dominie Sampson on a somewhat similar occasion,
' Prodigious ! '

   Ruskin was no less attracted to the minutiae of the

building than Acland, and they were both immensely
impressed by the zeal with which O'Shea and his
brother workmen, flinging convention aside, went

straight to the Botanic Gardens for the 'spreading
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 223

herbs and flowerets bright ' which their chisels were to
fashion on the stone capitals.

             ' No herb nor floweret glistened there
              But was carved in the cloister arches as fair,'

quoted Ruskin. 'And yet though we are raising every year in
England new examples of every kind of costly and variously
intended buildings -- ecclesiastical, civil, and domestic -- none
of us, through all that period, had boldness enough to put the
pretty couplet into simple practice. We went on, even in
the best Gothic work we attempted, clumsily copying the
rudest ornaments of previous buildings, we never so much
as dreamed of learning from the monks of Melrose, and
seeking for help beneath the dew that sparkled on their
gude kail garden. Your Museum at Oxford is literally the
first building raised in England since the close of the fifteenth
century which has fearlessly put to new trial this old faith in
nature, and in the genius of the unassisted workman who

gathered out of nature the materials he needed \'

   The sad sequel of O'Shea and his * monkeys ' was
yet to come. Ruskin himself was allowed, or allowed
himself, to rear one of the brick columns, and Acland
used to show it with great pride to visitors at the

Museum ; legend relates that the workmen found it
necessary to demolish the column and reconstruct it by
less eminent hands. But a delicately executed window
in the building is from Ruskin's own design, and his
studies for many others are now in Miss Acland's
possession. Woodward had prepared a design for
a porch after the manner of Chartres, which he regarded
as the most perfect example of French Gothic work.
Convocation refused to sanction the erection of the
porch, but some blocks of marble were inserted,
through private funds, for Woolner to carve without

  ^ Oxford Musetan, 1859 edition, p. 82. A few years later, between

i860 and 1863, the capitals of the pillars supporting Wellington
College Chapel were adorned by similar nature-studies under the
equally interested observation of Dr. Benson, the future Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.
224  HENRY ACLAND  [1848-

remuneration over the arch and in the spandrels.
Some very deHcate work executed in fine marble after
a design by Pollen is the only part completed. In 1889
Acland, who had watched every line of the design and
the execution of this fragment, was pained at the state

of dirt into which it had been allowed to fall, and, after
consultation with Sir Charles Newton, volunteered to

superintend the careful cleaning which it needed so
sorely; but the Oxford of that day treated it as a bygone
fancy, and Acland met with so much discouragement
that he reluctantly withdrew from the task.

   His interest in the workmen was shown in a

practical manner. Largely through his exertions
and on his initiative, an institute with reading-, dining-,

and smoking-rooms for the artificers and labourers
employed on the works was erected and maintained

in the Parks. It was a much-appreciated boon, for
most of the workmen were strangers to Oxford, and
many of them, including the O'Sheas, had been brought
over from Dublin by the architects. Dr. Cotton, the
Provost of Worcester, undertook a short service, akin

to family prayers, in the reading-room every morning,
and Acland used to enliven the winter evenings by
the provision of occasional lectures, the first of which
was delivered by Ruskin.

   Allusion has been made to the statues of the great
founders and improvers of natural knowledge erected
within the Museum. For these, as for the shafts, the

capitals, the inscriptions, and, indeed, all the ornamenta-

tion internal and external, it was necessary to rely upon
private munificence. Economy rather than complete-
ness had been the first object of the majority of those
who voted for the building. The contract provided for

no luxuries, and an appeal was issued for contributions

on this behalf, an appeal about which there was the less

hesitation that the subscriptions promised in earlier
days for the erection of the Museum had been returned

after the University had resolved to take up the
1859] THE FIGHT FOR THE MUSEUM 225

burden^. The first to set an example of generosity
was Her Majesty Queen Victoria, who had been made

acquainted with the circumstances in which the appeal

was issued. It had been suggested that she might
choose as her donation the statue of Bacon, who headed
the hst of those whom it was desired to commemorate.
Her Majesty declared it her pleasure to give, in addition,
those of Galileo, Newton, Leibnitz, and Oersted^. The
University contributed generously both by individual
subscriptions, and by a gift, on the part of the bachelors
and undergraduates, of the statues of Aristotle and
Cuvier, while there was a hearty response from the
world outside Oxford, including a number of Acland's
relatives and private friends. Many of the gifts were
in kind, from the owners of quarries in the North and
West. Red granite of Mull, and Tiree and Inverness
marble, were given by the Duke of Argyll ; Cruachan
granite by the Marquess of Breadalbane ; Sir Thomas
Acland sent elvan and trap from Killerton ^. Ruskin

was as good as his word ; he himself gave £^300 for the
windows of the ground-floor on the west front, and his
father presented the statue of Hippocrates. Dr. Pusey,
by defraying the cost of three of the inscriptions, gave
a further proof of confidence in a cause which had
aroused so much theological acrimony. Amongst the

  ^ A notice to this effect was published on June 12, 1855, from

which date the University Museum Committee dissolved itself, and
its labours were transferred to the Museum Delegacy appointed

by Convocation.

  ^ For Oersted was substituted John Hunter, owing to the
difficulty of procuring a satisfactory model of the Danish physicist.
Eventually Herr Jacobsen of Copenhagen presented a statue of his
countryman, but it still remains in plaster of Paris amidst its
companions in marble. The statue of Hunter was unveiled by the
Princess Christian in 1886.

   ' For a description of the various marbles, and for the general
arrangement and symbolism of the ornamentation, see a letter
from Professor Phillips, the first Curator, dated January 21, 1859,
and printed in the 1893 edition of the Oxford Museum^ p. 91.

                                                             Q
226 HENRY ACLAND

other donors were Mr. Gladstone, the Earl of Derby,
Sir Charles Lyell, Professor Sedgwick, Sir Robert
Murchison, Sir Benjamin Brodie, and Dean Buckland.

   The Museum was first made available for use by the
members of the University in October, i860. But
before the last touches had been put to the building
its designer had passed away. Woodward had shown
unmistakable signs of consumption for some little time,
and he was persuaded to spend the winter of 1859 in
Algiers. The case, however, was hopeless, and he
resolved to come back to Oxford to die. Acland had
made all arrangements for nursing him during the last
sad days, and, unable to bring him under his own roof,

had prepared for him special rooms in the adjoining
house, breaking a passage through the partition wall.
But it was not to be : a violent haemorrhage from the
lungs overcame him on the journey, at Lyons, and he

died there in an inn, alone. It was a cause of no
ordinary grief to all who had been brought in contact
with him. ' The lovable nature that lay beneath his

courteous silence ' and ' his guileless contemplative
nature ^ ' had won him friends at Oxford in every walk
of life. He is commemorated there by a medallion in
the Museum, executed by Alexander Munro, one of
those most closely attached to him, and destined himself
to an early death in a foreign land.

   ^ Acland's words in the Oxford Museum, 1893 edition, last page.
                  CHAPTER IX

THE PRE-RAPHAELITES-- THE WRECK OF
     THE TYNE-- THE REGIUS PROFESSOR-
     SHIP--THE MEDICAL COUNCIL

                                          1855-1858

   The building of the Museum was indirectly the means
of introducing Acland to the members of what is per-
haps the most interesting group in the annals of
British Art. In July, 1855, Woodward had invited
Dante Gabriel Rossetti to come down to Oxford and
do some designing work in connexion with the Gothic

experiment which was about to be attempted in the
Parks. Acland was already well acquainted with Rossetti
by name, for Miss Siddal, the beautiful and gifted girl,
' tall and slender with red coppery hair, and bright
consumptive complexion,' who afterwards became the
wife of the artist poet, was then under his medical care.

\Ruskin, as is well known had befriended her with

his usual lavish generosity, and, as her health was at
this moment in an even more alarming condition than
usual, he had asked Acland to find quiet lodgings for
her in or near Oxford.

   She is the daughter of a watchmaker (he wrote) ; Rossetti
first got her to sit to him for his higher female faces, and then
found out her talent for drawing, taught her, and got attached
to her, and now she is dying, unless the rest and change of
scene can save her . . . she has more the look of a Florentine

thirteenth-century lady than anything I ever saw out of a

fresco.

   During many weeks Miss Siddal remained under

       ^ Life o/D, G. Rossetti, by W. M. Rossetti, vol. i, p. 184.

                                                    Q2
228  HENRY ACLAND                                                             [1855-

his charge and observation, 'a kindly, gentle, quiet

person,' Acland describes her, 'and known to everybody

as Rossetti's frequent model, it was a great pleasure

to me to be of any service to her,' and it was a still

greater pleasure to be able to assure Rossetti that his
apprehensions concerning her health were greater than
her condition called for. Acland came to the con-

clusion that her lungs were not fatally affected, but that

the chief danger lay in * mental power long pent up

and lately overtaxed,' and he recommended a winter
abroad, which -- thanks once more to Ruskin, ' the
wizard,' as Rossetti called him -- she was able to enjoy ^

Miss Siddal had good reason to be grateful to the

Aclands, who had not only shown her every kindness

themselves, but had procured for her a good deal of

attention in other and somewhat exclusive quarters.

Before she departed she insisted on her doctor ac-

cepting one of her drawings, a painting of the church-

yard among the mountains immortalized by Wordsworth

in 'We are Seven.' It hangs now, a strange and

somewhat weird arrangement of colours, in Miss

Acland's drawing-room. What rendered it most remark-

able in her father's judgement was that a girl brought

up in London within a street or two of the Elephant

and Castle, should have selected such a subject and

executed it from pure imagination.

Ruskin wrote often about ' Ida,' as he always called

Miss Siddal, and there is a sad interest about the

following extract taken from one of his letters, undated,

but written evidently about this time :

  These geniuses are all alike, little and big -- I have known

five of them --Turner, Watts, Millais, Rossetti -- and this girl --

and I don't know which was, or which the wrongheadedest.
  am with them, like the old woman who lived in the shoe--
I
              I

                                      ^

                         I is

                                                                         is,
only that don't want to send them to bed, and can't whip
them -- or else that
                      what they all wanted. Poor Turner
went to bed before expected -- and broth without bread the

     Letters to William Alling/mtn, p. 149.
1858]           THE PRE-RAPHAELITES                  229

rest are quite as likely to get as with              that would do
them any good,
                                a
It Ihave no clue to the cause of the outburst. A shorta
                                                it,

                                               if
married life and tragic death were to close the career
of one whom Ruskin ranked as genius in the same
                  ^
sentence with Watts and Turner.
                    a
      does not appear that Rossetti ever did anything
                       It
for the Oxford Museum, but couple of years later he

brought down the other Pre-Raphaelites and whole
                                                     a
host of young disciples to work on the bays of the       a
Debating-room at the Union, of which Woodward                     a

was the architect.         had struck Rossetti, when on visit

to the latter at Oxford, that these bays afforded

great opportunity for the execution of series of wall-
                                         a

paintings in tempera. Woodward was charmed with
the idea, the consent of the Standing Committee of

the Union was obtained, and early in the Long Vaca-

tion of 1857 Rossetti and Burne-Jones and Morris and
Watts and Holman Hunt, with Arthur Hughes, Spencer

Stanhope, Val Prinsep, and Hungerford Pollen took

up their quarters in lodgings in the High Street and

elsewhere.

The story of these paintings of which the moulder-
                  *
ing and undecipherable remains still glimmer like faded
ghosts on the walls of the Union Library' has beenit

told at length by Mr. Mackail in his Life Morris'^
'work hastily undertaken, executed under impossible
                                         a
conditions, and finally abandoned after time and labour
                                                 of
had been spent on               quite disproportionate to the
                                                                                 \
original design.'

Into intimate association with the enthusiastic brother-

hood whose energies were so woefully misapplied

Acland was speedily drawn. Watts he had known as

far back as 1850, when negotiations had been entered
into to bring him down to execute fresco on the

     Now the Library,
     Vol. p. 117 et seq.
vol. p. 197.
''                        See also the Life of Rossetti by his brother,

     i,
            i,
230  HENRY ACLAND                                       [1855-

walls of what is now the University Galleries but was
then known as the Taylor Institution. The originator
of the scheme was Charles Newton, who pressed it in

letter after letter.

IfHere is a man (he wrote) perishing as Flaxman perished
before him, merely because he has not a wall to paint.  he

leaves this country and settles at Athens, as he talks of doing

in the spring, I feel that it will be my fault, that I have not
exerted myself enough for him ; that if proper trouble had

been taken to acquaint people with his art, it would have been

better appreciated. I am convinced that it would be a great

and lasting benefit to the University to have something

really intellectual like the 'Time and Oblivion' to look at.

   Acland interested himself vigorously, and at one

time the matter seemed so finally settled that Newton
wrote to thank him for bringing it about, and to suggest
the propriety of placing a vacant set of rooms in one of

the colleges at the artist's disposal. Difficulties, how-

ever, intervened, apparently through the disinclination
of the curators to take the risk of any damage to the
books contained in the room which was to be deco-

rated; and Oxford lost her fresco, to the grievous
disappointment of Newton and Acland ^ But an inci-

dental advantage accrued from Watts's visit to the

University, for it was on this occasion that he and
Newton found, among the mass of marbles forming the
'Arundel bequest,' and then stowed away in a cellar,
the fine example of Greek Art now known as the
' Oxford bust.'

   To Watts and his companions the house in Broad

Street extended its wonted hospitality. Acland him-
self had a keen appreciation of the Pre-Raphaelite
school, and the young men were in and out of the

house just as they pleased: their jokes and laughter

   * Both Liddell, then at Westminster, and Halford Vaughan, the
Regius Professor of Modern History, had striven hard with the

curators.
1858] THE PRE-RAPHAELITES  231

are still remembered by some of the older members of
his family. With one exception they availed themselves
freely of the constant invitations which were pressed
upon them, but William Morris could with difficulty be
induced to comply with the very modest amount of
conventionahty which reigned at Acland's table. His

Bohemianism had then reached a pitch which, in the
words of his biographer, ' exceeded even the customary
licence of Gandish's.' He had forsworn dress clothes :

to go into society was torture to him, a fact which he
never took pains to conceal. ' One evening,' writes

\Mr. Mackail ' when they were to dine with Dr. Acland,

Morris invented an illness and sent his apologies b}'
Burne-Jones. Unfortunately Burne-Jones arrived with
this message when there still wanted a few minutes to

dinner-time. Acland, who was all kindness, instantly,

to Burne-Jones's infinite dismay, put on his hat and
went round to see the sick man in his lodgings: he
was found, apparently in the best of health and spirits,
sitting at dinner with Faulkner and playing cribbage
over the meal. He had to confess recovery and be led
off to dinner.'

   On another occasion Dr. Acland revisited Morris's

lodgings to extract a splinter which he had struck into
his eye, when engaged on carving a block of freestone
into a capital of foliage and birds, and his language to

the doctor was, ' even for him, unequalled in its force

and copiousness^.'

  ^ Life 0/ Morn's, vol. i, p. 128.
  ^ I do not know whether the following letter from Mr. Severn, the
friend of Acland's Roman days, synchronized with the fresco
epoch, for, like so many letters in the first half of the last century,
it is undated, and I have been unable to trace the fate of the picture

referred to in it.

   'The pleasure of my visit to Oxford, owing to various occupations,
I have never been able yet to make " come off," which I regret,
as I wish to consult you about my large altar-piece which is in
want of a church. You remember at Rome the sketch of the

Holy Sepulchre, and it is of this I have been doing a large work
232  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

   On June 23, 1856, Lady Acland died quite suddenly,
in London, of an unsuspected heart-complaint : she
was one of those who inspire awe as well as affec-
tion in their children, but her sons and daughters
vied in their feelings of reverence and gratitude to-
wards her. She had entered fully into the joys and
sorrows of her family ; she had received her numerous

daughters-in-law with a frank and hearty welcome,
and she had helped to make Killerton and Holnicote

the centre of a family life patriarchal in its dimensions
and its hospitality. Sir Thomas took his bereavement
as in some sense a warning to prepare for his own
end. He withdrew, as far as it was possible for one

in his position, from public affairs, and at the next
General Election gave up the seat for North Devon
which he had held unchallenged for twenty years. But

the days of his pilgrimage were far from being accom-
plished, and in the retirement of his Devonshire home
he took the same interest as of old in public affairs, and
in the domestic concerns of his family. Her second son,

Arthur Troyte, survived his mother by little more than

a year. He succumbed to diphtheria, and it is curious
that a disease which is one of the scourges of the pre-

sent day was so little known or recognized in the
England of half a century ago that Henry Acland, when

nineteen feet high (with semi-circular top) and eleven feet broad.
It occurs to me that at Oxford there may be a better opening for
it than here -- the picture has been partly paid for by subscription,

and was offered to me on the plan that the subscribers should on

its completion present it to some suitable church. So far have

I not found one, as all the new churches are made with a large
window at each end, but as I am under the impression that at
Oxford there is much knowledge and taste in the arts, so I think

it likely that a destination might be found for my picture better
than in London. At this moment it is in the Library of West-
minster School, receiving the last touches. Your excellent father
is one of my subscribers and is very kind to me about it.

   ' Now if you can excuse so strange an appeal and chance to have

a moment at leisure to inquire about and answer my question, you
will greatly oblige.'
1858]  DEAN LIDDELL  233

summoned to his brother's bedside, declared it to be the

first case he had ever treated.
   The years brought their changes in the world of

Oxford also : new men were coming to the front, and

wider views of life and of education were winning
acceptance. In George Rolleston, who succeeded
Acland as Lee's Reader, and was destined for the

newly-estabhshed Linacre Chair of Physiology, the

latter found an invaluable colleague and a congenial
friend. Max MuUer had been on terms of intimacy
with him since his first coming to Oxford in 1847 > his

election to an All Souls Fellowship, largely due to

Acland's initiative, brought the two into a closer alliance,
which was to last as long as life itself. And some years
later, on the death, in January, 1858, of the Rev. Lewis
Sneyd, it was suggested to Acland by a friend among the
Fellows ' that he should allow himself to be nominated

for the Wardenship of All Souls. An eminent legal au-

thority pronounced that there was nothing in the Statutes
to prevent the election of a layman and the subsequent
repeal of the provision which required the Warden to
be in Priest's orders within a year of his election.
Such repeal could be effected by the Warden and a two-
thirds majority of the Fellows with the consent of the
Visitor, the Archbishop of Canterbury. After some
consideration Acland put the suggestion aside, and the
Rev. Francis Knyvett Leighton was chosen. There can

be no doubt, I think, that he was wise in his decision.
   But of all the changes in Oxford the one which most

closely affected Acland was the return of Liddell to
Christ Church. It not only gave him an influential and

zealous supporter in high places, but the constant
presence of a wise and statesmanlike counsellor was a
tower of strength to him in the years to come. And
Acland, before his friend had long been settled in the
Deanery, was able to give a practical illustration of his

affection at no small personal sacrifice.

                     ^ Mr. (now Sir) Godfrey Lushington.
234  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

   In the autumn of 1856 Liddell was so seriously ill
that Acland was obliged to tell him that nothing but a
winter at Madeira would save his life. The Dean's
rejoinder was, ' I expected you to say so, but I am not
going to be knocked about in the Bay of Biscay in that
little brig the Brilliant. I shall not go unless I can go
in a man-of-war.' The doctor was not to be defeated.
His Pembroke messmate, Captain Prevost, had just
been appointed to command one of the finest corvettes

in the service, and was under orders to sail for the

Pacific. Acland immediately telegraphed to him to

obtain leave from the Admiralty to take the Dean and
Mrs. Liddell as far as Madeira. Permission was granted,

and on December 23 he escorted his patient to
Plymouth, announcing, in the train, that he had made all

arrangements to accompany him to Madeira. His old

tutor was too precious a charge to be left to the mercy
of circumstances ; but Liddell's only comment on the

arrangement was, ' So I supposed.' Having comfortably

established him at Funchal, and satisfied himself that

the climate was just what the Dean needed, and after
enjoying for a week 'the sight and taste of turtle,
bananas, and green peas,' Acland took a passage on
the West India Mail Company's steamer Tyne, home-
ward bound from Rio Janeiro. She touched at Lisbon
on January 9, and on her passage through the Bay
of Biscay encountered a heavy and prolonged gale

from the north-east. Portland Lights were made at

midnight on the 12th, and about three in the morning

the passengers were rudely awakened by a sudden
crash. The Tyne had run ashore ten miles out of
her course and within a mile of St. Alban's Head on
the Dorset coast. Had she struck against the cliff,
instead of on a reef outside, the ship must have gone to

the bottom. For the moment the captain knew no more
than the passengers whither the gale had brought him,

and it was generally believed that they were over against

Blackgang Chine on the Isle of Wight. It was not till
1858] THE WRECK OF THE 'TYNE'                           235

daybreak that a preventive boat put off at great risk, and
the ultimate loss of one of its crew, to tell them where

they were. The scene on board is best described in the
words of Ruskin ^ :

   When, thirty years afterwards, Dr. Acland was wrecked inif it,
the steamer Tyne, off the coast of Dorset, the steamer having
lain wedged on the rocks all night -- no one knew what rocks --it,
and the dawn breaking on half a mile of dangerous surf betweena
the ship and shore -- the officers in anxious debate, the crew
in confusion, the passengers in hysterics or at prayers, were
all astonished and many scandalized at the appearance of
Dr. Acland from the saloon in punctilious morning dress
with the announcement that breakfast was ready. To the
impatient clamour of indignation with which his unsym-
pathetic conduct was greeted, he replied by pointing out that
not a boat could go ashore, far less come out of and that
in the meantime, as most of them were wet, all cold, and at

the best must be dragged ashore through the surf, not swim

for their lives in they would be extremely prudent to begin
the day as usual with breakfast. The hysterics ceased, the

confusion calmed, what suits anybody had become available

to them again, and not life was ultimately lost.'

The sea went down with the tide, but the ship rolled

from side to side in the heavy surf, and how to land the

passengers was serious problem. At last little boat
    a                         a
                       a
reached the Tyne with     hospitable invitation fromit

Encombe, Lord Eldon's house, situated on the coast and

full in view of the scene of disaster. As an old sea-hand,

Acland was sent on shore by the captain to make

preparations for the reception of the shipwrecked party.

The boat was splendid little cockleshell,' but was
    *

      a

all but swamped in conveying him with two or three

other passengers to the beach an oar was lost in the
                          ^;
first breaker, and was only regained with difficulty.
The ladies of the Scott family and their friends, in one

      Praeterita, vol. p. 380,^^i,
     The Ladies Katharine and Augusta Scott afterwards
respectively Lady Boyne and Lady Cottesloe.             became
236       HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

of whom Acland recognized the daughter of a patient
whom he had recently attended at Claydon, were lavish

in their kindness and charity. Before nightfall pas-

sengers and crew were landed, fed, housed, and in some

instances clothed. 'As the last act of the evening,' he

wrote, ' when more than 200 had been fed and cared for,

the Thanksgiving prayers of the Service to be used at
Sea were read in the stable by Mr. Farrer^ to the

exhausted men as they lay or stood on the clean straw,

and I never wish to hear ring in my ears a happier and
more cheering sound than of the manly Amens which

closed this day : a day when, after the first event, every-
thing might have been worse and hardly anything could

have been better.'

   While full tribute was paid on all sides to Acland's
cheerful resourcefulness and presence of mind, he him-
self bore witness in print to the good conduct of the
crew and the skill, devotion, and energy of the captain
and chief officers; and both he and his father were

liberal contributors to a fund raised for the assistance

of those who had suffered in pocket by the wreck. He

was none the worse for his drenching, and was back
in Oxford before Mrs. Acland had time to hear of the

adventure ; but for days to come their writing-table
groaned beneath the weight of congratulatory letters,
many of them from complete strangers. One view
taken of Acland's conduct is well represented in the
following letter from Charles Pearson :

  Your letter in the Times of this morning, to which I was

directed by Mr. G. Butler, gave me the first tidings of your
return to England and apparently very narrow escape. I need
hardly say how rejoiced I am, or how much I was interested

by your account, and most characteristic attack on the fast

habits ^ of this poor nineteenth century. You have a right
to speak, for you certainly belong to another century. An

'    The  guardian of Lord Eldon, who was then a boy of eleven.
     The  letter had deprecated the ' racing ' speed of steam-vessels.
'
1858] THE WRECK OF THE 'TYNE'                                                         237

ordinary physician would as soon think of consulting Don
Quixote for a sovereign specific for wounds as of deserting
his ordinary practice to -- eat green peas in Madeira, and

study a shipwreck on the southern coast. Well, I suppose

it is no use reproaching you, as you will go on to the end of

time cultivating the heart and brain in your own most expen-

sive fashion. I only hope your voyage has answered the

object you proposed to yourself, and that you left the Dean

comfortably established with a good chance of improved
health. I suppose for yourself that a shipwreck is nothing
more than a salutary fillip to the constitution.

   I had better leave off, for I am so divided between satis-

faction at your safe return, amusement at your way of
effecting and sort of irrational respect for the motives

which prompted your expedition, that am quite unable to

express any clear meaning.
it,

        '

              a
                                             a

                                    I

                                                  is

                                                                               a
                                                                          is

                                                             I'
  A number of his Oxford friends commemorated the

occasion of his escape from the perils of the deep by
presenting Mrs. Acland with bust of her husband,
beautifully executed in marble by Alexander Munro.
am very much obliged to you,' w^rote Goldwin Smith to
Conybeare, for teUing me of Acland's bust. He one
of the best of men, and has done and doing great

work at Oxford.'

   Amid the salvage from the v^reck was an object

which had been the source of no small trouble during
the voyage. During his brief stay at Madeira, Acland
had obtained, through the good offices of the consul,

   splendid tunny-fish, which was packed in bay salt,
and placed in box eight feet long. The box was
addressed, Dr. Acland, Oxford,' and nothing would
convince the sailors that did not contain the corpse of

   patient. The presence on board the ship of dead
body was enough in their eyes to account for the heavy

gale against which the Tyne was labouring through the
Bay. The men all but mutinied, and finally the captain
gave notice to Acland that he was going to throw the
body overboard. In vain did Acland protest that was
aa
                                   '
                          a
                                             it

                                                                                it a
238  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

only a tunny, and it was not until he threatened the
captain with legal proceedings for destroying the pro-
perty of the University of Oxford that the latter yielded.

He was unconvinced, however; the story spread among

the passengers, and so great was the indignation against
Acland that none would speak to him. The situation
was intolerable, and he finally pretended to bow to the

inevitable on condition that the supposed coffin should

be unscrewed by the ship's carpenter on the quarter-

deck before the body was thrown overboard. A large

company were assembled when the tunny was exposed
to view, and the general disconcertment may be imagined

-- solvuntur risii tabulae! It should be added that the
sailors, remorseful for their folly, and won over by
Acland's bonhomie and coolness during the wreck,

worked ' double tides ' to save the tunny-fish in its box,
and it was delivered at Oxford without a bone being
broken or disarranged. After being carefully arti-

culated by Charles Robertson it was placed in the
Anatomy School at Christ Church, and thence removed
in i860 to the area of the new University Museum.

Under its handsome case was placed the following
Latin inscription :

                                    THUNNUS QUEM VIDES
                        MENSE lANUARII A. S. MDCCCLVII
    AB HENRICO W. ACLAND TUNC TEMPORIS ANATOMIAE IN

                              AEDE XTI PRAELECTORE
                                 EX MADEIRA INSULA

          QUO HENRICUM G. LIDDELL AEDIS XTI DECANUM
           INFIRMA VALETUDINE LABORANTEM DEDUXERAT
        PRAETER OMNEM SPEM OXONIAM ADPORTATUS EST.
TYNA ENIM NAVE VAPORARIA IN QUA REDIBAT PRAELECTOR
AD SCTI ALBANI PROMONTORIUM IN COMITATU DORSETIAE EIECTA,

             QUUM IPSE VIX SOSPES E FLUCTIBUS EVASIT,
 HIC PISCIS IN NAVE RELICTUS PER VOLUNTATEM NAUTARUM

                           AD TERRAM ADVECTUS EST.
                  DEINDE IN MUSAEO AEDIS XTI POSITUS

              PER ARTEM CAROLI ROBERTSON E2KEAETET0H.
1858] THE WRECK OF THE 'TYNE'  239

   Comparatively unnoticed at Christ Church, its appear-
ance in the fuller light of day was the signal for a once

celebrated University squib. A sham Congregation

notice appeared announcing that it had pleased the
University to substitute the following form of words for
the original ' Epitaph '--

                                   THUNNUS QUEM RIDES
                            MENSE lUNII A. S. MDCCCLX

     AB HENRICO W. ACLAND NUNC TEMPORIS MEDICINAE IN

                          ACAD. OXON, PROFESSORE REGIO

                                  EX MUSAEO ANATOMICO
       DE QUO HENRICUM G. LIDDELL AEDIS XTI DECANUM

           AETERNA MANSUETUDINE PERORANS SEDUXERAT
PRAETER OMNIUM SPEM OXONIENSIUM HUC APPORTATUS EST.

  ORATIONE ENIM VAPORARIA IN QUO GAUDEBAT PROFESSOR
AD SCTI ACLANDI GLORIAM IN CONGREGATIONEM DOCTISSIME

                                           INIECTA,
  QUUM MUSAEUM IPSUM VIX SOSPES EX HOSTIBUS EVASIT,
HAEC AREA IGNAVE REFECTA PER SEGNITATEM MAGISTRORUM

                                AD FINEM PROVECTA EST,
                   QUAE IN MEDIO AEDIFICIO POSITA
        PER ARTEM BENIAMINI WOODWARD E2KIAMnPEY0H ^.

   The tunny and its case are still in the Museum, but
the inscription has disappeared.

   The death of Dr. Ogle during the Long Vacation of
1857 caused a vacancy in the post of Regius Professor
of Medicine. That Acland was the man to succeed him
no one at Oxford disputed, but in Crown patronage
there must always be an element of uncertainty.
Mr. Gladstone, no longer a member of the Cabinet, was

   ^ Skidmore was the artificer in metal who had constructed the
supporting iron foHage of the area. The mock Statute, according
to Mr. Tuckwell {Reminiscences, p. i6o), was beheved to have been
' rough-hewn by Lewis Carroll, handed round the common-room,
retouched by Gordon, Bode, and the rest, the final touch of
" skidmorized " for " skeletonized " being supplied by Prout.'
240           HENRY ACLAND                    [1855-

by no means free from apprehension, and interested

himself earnestly but discreetly on his friend's behalf.

Happily, there was no cause for uneasiness, and Acland
was duly appointed. In writing to convey his thanks

and acceptance he had alluded to the old Harrow
intimacy between his father and the Prime Minister.
The letter produced a gratifying answer.

              Broadlands,

My dear Sir,                October 25, 1857.

     I am much obliged to yoli for your letter of the 17th,
and I can assure you that it was a real gratification to me to

find that the candidate who was pointed out by universal

concurrence as the fittest, was the son of my much valued
and esteemed friend and schoolfellow, Sir Thomas Acland.

              Yours sincerely,
                              Palmerston.

   And the following letter from Dr. Latham will show
something of the position which Acland had by this
time come to occupy in the eyes of the leaders of his

profession :

   I rejoice in your appointment to the Regius Professor-

ship --you have won it for yourself. The voice of the
profession, if it had a voice in the matter, would have given

it you. As it is in name, so, held by you, it will be in deed

and in truth the highest office of our profession. None of

your predecessors in my remembrance either did or could
make anything of it. The fault was partly in themselves,

partly in the times. But now the man and the times join
to make it what it is capable of-- your work in Oxford

during the last ten years has gained you personally a great
character, and to this will now be added the authority of
office --your power will now be equal to your desire of

doing good.                                   This new
   Forgive my preachments from the old text.

office must furnish the excuse, rather the necessity, of escape

from the worry of serving everybody, and every good cause

that comes within your reach every day of your life -- I don't
1858] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP  241

recommend otium cum dignitate -- there is no fear of that --
but for your own sake and for the sake of the good which
from henceforth you hope to do, I do recommend that you
should hmit the objects of your labour and thought to a few
great ones -- 'Good Luck have you with your Honour.'

   The news of his appointment reached Acland in the
midst of a strenuous election contest. Besides the

Regius Professorship, Dr. Ogle had held the Clinical
Professorship of Medicine on Lord Lichfield's founda-
tion, a post in the gift of Convocation, and for this office
Acland had presented himself as a candidate. The two
Chairs had not always been held in conjunction, and
there was no necessary connexion between them.
But the Regius Professor was debarred from practical
medical teaching -- unless he was Clinical Professor as
well-- by an old-standing regulation of the Radcliffe
Infirmary which made the Clinical Professor master
of the medical department there. The Governors had
conferred upon this latter, in 1781, the right of claiming
any cases that might come into the wards, even though
they had been ' taken in ' by the Regius Professor, and

though he might have intended to deliver instruction to
students upon them. So long as the Regius Professor
made no effort to use his office for the purpose of
practical teaching -- the course followed by Dr. Kidd --

no inconvenience need follow from this regulation or
from the severance of the Chairs. But it is obviously

impossible for a physician to give any effective clinical
instruction in Medicine unless he has the free and

unfettered use of at least some part of the hospital
which he attends. Deprived of all power within the
walls of the Infirmary, Acland felt that the Regius
Professorship would be a fertile source of humiliation,

a feeling in which he was strengthened by his ten years'

experience as Physician to that establishment.

   To hold the Clinical Professorship by itself he had

small ambition, and, as the date on which Convocation

was to proceed to the election drew near, the delay

                                                       R
242  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

in filling up the Regius Chair caused considerable
embarrassment. Dr. Jackson, also a resident physician
in the city, had been put in nomination for the CHnical,
and it was known that he would be strongly supported.
It was necessary for Acland's friends to bestir them-
selves, and Liddell issued a strong appeal in his behalf.

He recapitulated Acland's eminent services in organiz-
ing both the New Museum and the physiological in-
struction to be given there. He dwelt on his past work

as Lee's Reader, and the physiological and pathological

collections founded entirely by his efforts, and largely

at his own expense. He recalled the fact that in the
Christ Church Museum he had lectured regularly to
students from all parts of the University, and had
kept the rooms open throughout the day for all who
might choose to avail themselves of their contents for
purposes of private study. Acland's medical experience
and skill were matters of common knowledge, his con-

sulting practice in Oxford and the neighbourhood was

second to none, and the Dean appealed to the heads

of the profession in London and Edinburgh as to the

position occupied by him among the practising physi-

cians of the country. His devotion and energy during

the cholera visitation, and his valuable report upon that
epidemic and upon the whole sanitary condition of the

Thames Valley, were still fresh in their memories. The
Dean added that he had Acland's authority for stating
that, if elected, it was his intention to resign the Lee's

Readership and to devote himself to Pathology and

Practical Medicine.

   I have no personal or party feeling (he said in conclusion),
but I confess to being deeply interested in the result of the
election. I have long cherished a hope of seeing the Uni-

versity again connected with the practical elementary studies
necessary for the professions of Law and Medicine. The
School of Law and History offers ground for expectation,

not immediate, perhaps, but perhaps not very far distant, of
seeing our Academical Instruction made useful for Law
1858] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP                           243

Students. The School of Physical Science, if supported by

such Hospital Instruction as Dr. Acland could and would
give\ offers a much nearer prospect of restoring our ancient

alliance with the Faculty of Medicine. For every reason, there-
fore, both of justice to persons and of justice to the University,

I shall, without intending any disrespect to his opponent, give

my vote to Dr. Acland.'

      Liddell's vigorous intervention was not calculated to

conciliate opposition. There v^as a dash of the school-

master about which the members of Convocation did
        it,
                    it                flood of counter
not appreciate, and         produced  it a
                                         it
appeals on the part of Dr. Jackson's supporters. The
University was asked not to stultify itself by tamely '

accepting Crown nominee, and          was more than
        aa
                         a
hinted that Acland's labours in anatomy and physio-

logy would prove disqualification for success as         a

clinical teacher. In reply to this was thought advis-

able that few of those who had received clinical

instruction from him as Physician to the Infirmary

should publicly record their witness to the great

care, knowledge, and skill which made his teaching

invaluable, to the clear manner in which he gave

information, and to his attention to the requirements

of his pupils.' Among the signatories were Dr. James
Andrew, Dr. Fox of Bristol, and Mr. Charles Pearson.

      There was good cause for anxiety as to the result of

the election. Acland's exertions in the struggle for the

Museum, not yet finally ended, had brought hornets'
                                      *
nest about his ears. There was no particular desire
                                               a
among the Governors of the Infirmary to see fresh

authority in the hands of their Physician, whose revolu-

tionary ideas had already caused them much trouble

and expense. The electors were urged to pause even

at the threshold of the Convocation House,' before they

a'    heaped all the honours and emoluments of the pro-

fession upon one man.' The main strength, however,^

        Through no fault of Acland's this anticipation was destined to
      very partial fulfilment.

                                                  R
                            2
244                         HENRY ACLAND                    [1855-

of Dr. Jackson, apart from his professional qualifications,

which none for a moment impugned, lay in the fact that

he was a Wykehamist. It was the boast of Winchester
and New College that they could carry any election in

Oxford, and that they had never been defeated when
they had once ' gone in to win.' What was not unjustly
called 'the tremendous influence of Winchester' was
brought into the field. Liddell gave vent to his feelings
concerning the esprit de corps which seemed destined to

prove fatal to his friend in the following lines :

' Inter Wiccamicos lex immutabilis esto,

"     Per  famserautqitu"e  nefas semper adesse suis.       moraris ?
     Quid                   rogitas ? Cur tu hoc, insulse,

     Est de Wiccamicis ; omnia commeruit.'

   But the opposition had roused the equally deep-rooted
clannishness of the West of England. The men not
only of Devon, but of Cornwall, Dorset, and Somerset,
in all of which counties the name of Acland had strong

associations, territorial and otherwise, were up in arms.

A strong canvass was instituted. The West Country

members of Convocation trooped up to Oxford on the
day of the poll. Sir Thomas Acland made his last public
appearance in his old University, and the Regius
Professor^ -- for that appointment had been made ten
days previously --was triumphantly elected to the
Clinical Chair. It should be mentioned that among

those who then, as ever, supported him loyally and
 effectually was the veteran Dr. Daubeny. Acland's
 elevation to the rank of a Professor was not allowed to

 pass unnoticed by his old college, and in 1859 he was
 elected an Honorary Student of Christ Church. The

 compliment was largely enhanced in his eyes by the
 fact that the same distinction was on the same day
 conferred upon Ruskin.

    Acland was now free to embark upon that course of

 practical reform which he had marked out for himself
 from the days when the shortcomings of Oxford as a
185S] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP  245

place of medical education had first forced themselves
upon him. I have shown that, at the date of his
appointment as Lee's Reader, the teaching of the

natural sciences was at its lowest ebb, and that the

means of practical instruction in them were non-existent.
The state of Medicine was in just the same plight.
Dr. Kidd, the Regius Professor, ceased to lecture when
he resigned the Lee's Readership ; Dr. Ogle had only

an occasional pupil at the Radcliffe Infirmary : once

a year, on an average, a student presented himself to
be examined for the Oxford M.B.^ or to read a
thesis for the Doctorate. Acland had been one of

the few to do so, but the Oxford Medical Degree

was little sought after, although no graduate in
Medicine was eligible for the Fellowship of the
Royal College of Physicians unless he had obtained

the M.D. of Oxford or Cambridge University. All

Souls had ceased to fill up the four medical Fellow-

ships provided for on her foundation, which in former
years had been held by Sydenham and Linacre and
Millington^. There were not forty men on the books
of all the different colleges and halls in Oxford

with M.D. or M.B. to their names. It was evident

that Oxford was doing but little to encourage its
graduates to take up the study of Medicine or Surgery.

   No one regretted this state of things so much as the

cultivated and foreseeing leaders of Medicine, the men
with whom Acland had been brought in contact in Lon-
don and Edinburgh, of whom Alison and Brodie may be
taken as types. They held that it was of immense impor-
tance, not only to the order of physicians, but to the
profession generally, that more members of the English

   ^ The number of graduates who took the M.B. from 1840 to 1854
was fourteen.

   "^ Both the latter became presidents of the College of Physicians.
Between 1518 and 1871, with only four exceptions (two of which
are doubtful), every President of the Royal College of Physicians

was M.D. Oxon. or Cantab.
246  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

Universities should be induced to enter the medical pro-
fession. To bring this about, to give the University the
same touch with Medicine as with Law and Theology,

to provide for medical students all facilities for a liberal
education as well as for the sciences which lie at the
foundation of rational and practical Medicine, was
the aim of Acland's Oxford life. The establishment of
the Natural Science School and the foundation of the
New Museum had a twofold value in his eyes. On
the one hand they widened the whole course of Univer-
sity study, and gave the mass of the undergraduates
opportunities hitherto denied to them ; on the other
they rendered it possible for those who had chosen
Medicine as a career to obtain the groundwork of their
professional education amid the surroundings of Univer-

sity life. At the same time it was an essential part of his
medical creed that Oxford should not attempt to supply

a substitute for the special and technical instruction
obtained in the wards of the great hospitals, and that

there should be no tampering with the general standard

of University teaching in order to attract medical students

 to Oxford.

    These, briefly speaking, were the principles which
 guided him during his fifty years as a teacher at
 Oxford. The language in which he gave vent to
 them in his letter to Dr. Jacobson ^, published in 1848,
 might have been employed mutatis mutandis in his
 pamphlet Oxford and Modern Medicine, written in

 1891. I have quoted from the former of these publica-

 tions some passages which dealt with the introduction

 of Natural Science teaching into Oxford. The latter
 part of it dealt with the responsibilities and prospects
 of the University considered as a body possessing the
 privilege of granting Medical Degrees and licences to
 practise, and it was written under the inspiration of
 Sir Benjamin Brodie, then the highest and most trusted

  authority in England on education as applied to Medicine.

                                          ' See p. 152, supra.
1858] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP  247

   In the first place he sought about for some mode
of giving reality and substance to the Oxford Medical

Degrees.

   They do not prove that their possessors have had a medi-
cal education here, for we have no Medical School, nor do
they guarantee that their holder has received a general Oxford
education, inasmuch as a Dublin man may obtain one. They
only prove that the graduate in Medicine has passed a medical
examination here. He may have had his non-professional
and must have had his professional education elsewhere. He
need not have spent a week in the place.

   Acland might have added with regard to the degree of

Doctor of Medicine that there was no check whatever

on the subject of the thesis for which it was conferred.
It might have been given, as was once said, ' for a know-
ledge of volcanoes, for a considerable acquaintance with
the atomic theory, or with the botany of Virgil.'

   To remedy these anomahes there were two possible

plans -- either to make the education equivalent to the
nominal value of the degree, or to reduce the value of
the degree to the standard of some known place of

education. For the first plan it would be necessary to
create an efficient Medical School at Oxford; for the

second it would be necessary to confine the degree of

M.D. to those who had already obtained a hcence to
practise from the College of Physicians, and to grant
the degree of M.B., without licence to practise'^, to men

   ^ This proposed abandonment of the power to license roused
the ire of the Warden of Wadham, the famous 'Ben' Symons.
' You mistake the matter,' he said ; ' you are considering the
merits of the case. Your business is to maintain our privileges. '

But Acland clung to the view that it would be a good thing for
the University if the Oxford Medical Degree was conferred only as

an honour upon graduates who were already legally qualified to
practise their profession by having passed the examinations of one

of the numerous licensing bodies. By this means he considered
that the Oxford M.D. would to a very large extent be freed from
the merely professional element of a Hcence to practise, and would
248  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

who had passed the B.A. examination in Arts, and had
satisfied the examiners in the general fundamental

sciences of Natural Philosophy and such other subjects
as would be a proper preparation for the study of

Practical Medicine.

   Now I object (he writes) to the first of these two plans --
that of establishing a Medical School here, for two reasons:

   ist. Because there are already a sufficient number of

Medical Schools in the Empire ; another is not wanted.

   2nd. Because if an additional school were wanted, I do

not think Oxford the best place for such school. Oxford is

a county town of no large size, so that the hospital cases are
far more limited in number than in the metropolis of this or

other countries ; a large field for clinical observation is abso-
lutely necessary for a good Medical School. A small hospital
will teach any man much ; a large one will teach him more.

To most medical students every day in the wards is precious ;
and the more they can see in the days of their pupilage, the
better for them in the years of their practice. I do not mean

to say that a large Medical School cannot be created by a great
man, on the basis of a small hospital, either here or elsewhere,

just as a Chemical School has been created at Giessen by
Liebig ; or as a Law School might have been created by Black-
stone here in Oxford. But, whatever success attended such

a school, it would probably die with its founder. The want
of extensive hospital practice, as well as of the advantages

attendant on early reputation in London, and other large
towns, will sooner or later make a school in a town of this

size (found it who may) inferior to the schools of London, or
 Edinburgh, or Paris, or Dublin.

   But though the establishment of a complete School of
Medicine at Oxford v^as not in his opinion either likely
or desirable, there was no such difficulty in the way of
* a school for the branches of knowledge introductory to
the study of Medicine.' Acland's own experience at
St. George's was fresh in his mind, as he pointed out

become a distinction, stamping the holder of it as a man with
special attainments in some branch of Medicine or Surgery or in
one of the sciences allied to them.
1858] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP  249

how at the outset of his London course the mind of the
medical student was distracted and his time taken up by
the multiphcity of the subjects which had to be studied

at one time.

   Often he has to attend four or five lectures in a day, on
various subjects, besides his hospital practice ; by the time
these are over he is perhaps so worn out that he has no time
or energy to arrange and order what he has heard, still less
to inquire further and examine books illustrative or explana-
tory of the lectures.

   But if he could dispose of these preliminary studies
during his Oxford residence, in quiet college courts,
away from the bustle and hurry of the hospital, he would

be able to enter upon his strictly professional subjects
with a more receptive mind, and with ampler leisure for
extending and improving his professional knowledge to

the uttermost. With such encouragement it would be
reasonable to hope for a steady increase in the number
of men who pass through Oxford to the professions of
Medicine and Surgery. But if this increase were to set

in it would be essential to check any tendency to collect

the medical students into a separate body. To allow
this would be to deprive them of one great use of a
University education -- the intercourse between mind

and mind, unfettered by narrow views and professional
bias. Above all.

   Let no clamour or argument induce the University to require
less of classical and religious education of those who proceed
in Medicine than of those who only proceed in Arts. The
whole value of our Medical Degrees (whatever that be) is lost,
if there is in this place any substitution of professional know-
ledge for general education. We only wish to engraft a
semi-professional upon our general education, and to send out
the medical student better prepared to enter upon the per-
plexing and difficult studies which await him at the great
hospitals, able to avail himself more fully of their teaching
and experience.
250  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

   So wrote Acland at the age of thirty-three, an instance
of that completeness of mental vision which had so im-
pressed Ruskin, and of the imaginative foresight which
anticipates consequences and contingencies. As a wit-
ness before the University Commissioners of 1850 he
was able to give further expression to these views and

to urge as a preliminary to any reform in the Faculty
of Medicine the rearrangement of the Medical and

Anatomical Professorships. A practical step in this

direction was taken by the foundation, in 1859, of the
Linacre Professorship of Physiology, and the obligation

to teach Anatomy was thus tardily recognized by the
University. But the Chairs of Medicine remained un-

touched ^ and it was, as we have seen, a mere accident

that Acland succeeded in reuniting them. His main
object in undergoing the worry and annoyance of a
contest for the Clinical Chair had been with a view to
future changes. It was only worth ;^200 a year, and as he
was pledged, if elected, to resign the Lee's Readership,
which was of the same value, he had no pecuniary
interest in the matter; but he saw that it was of the

first importance, when the next process in University
Reform was reached, that he should be in a position to
facilitate any readjustment of the teaching functions.
And he felt strongly that it was intolerable that the
Regius Professor of Medicine should be without any
official status in the Radcliffe Infirmary. As a working
Chair Acland found the Clinical Professorship of infi-

nitesimal value, and after twenty years' experience he
advocated its conversion into a Professorship of Com-
parative Pathology. The number of students desirous
of receiving clinical instruction never rose above one or

two at a time, the difficulties in the way of organizing

classes for them proved insuperable, and though he

   * Except that the Tomline Praelectorship and the Aldrichian
Professorship of Anatomy, which were previously annexed to the
Regius Professorship of Medicine, were transferred to the Linacre

Chair.
1858] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP  251

tried to institute special clinical courses for members
of the University who contemplated parochial or

missionary work, the response he met with was not
of an encouraging nature.

   As Regius Professor, Acland found nothing in the
way of precedent to guide him. The salary was not
large, under ^^500 a year ; there was no residence, for
possession of Frewin Hall, which for a time was
assigned to some of his predecessors, had long ago
been resumed, on the termination of a long lease, by
Brasenose, the college to which it belonged. There

was no laboratory, no scientific appliances, no assistants,

and no means of obtaining any. Nor were there any
traditions with regard to teaching. The old books de-
clared that it was the duty of the Regius Professor of
Medicine to read on Tuesdays and Fridays in Term

time either Hippocrates or Galen at eight in the morning

in the school appointed for the Faculty. This remnant
of Caroline days had long fallen into desuetude. The
revival of similar ' readings ' from more modern authors,

and at a more reasonable hour, might have satisfied the
conception of a Professor as a lecturing machine, but

Medicine is not a subject which can be taught or learnt
in this manner. Until the University made provision
for the effective teaching of Medicine, Acland felt that

his work must lie in other paths, and notably in the
reform of the examinations for the Medical Degrees

for which as Regius Professor he was responsible.

   On his appointment he found practically no machiner}',
no records, no system ; all was to be created. He felt
keenly the necessity of making Surgery a necessary
subject for a Medical Degree. But the Oxford Uni-
versity Statutes only accepted Oxford Doctors of

Medicine as examiners in their school, and the idea

of going outside the University graduates was as yet
unbroached. The Oxford Doctors of Medicine who

possessed the necessary knowledge for examining in

Surgery were few in number, and it was not to be
252  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

expected that surgeons who were Oxford graduates
v/ould be induced to proceed to the degree of Doctor
merely in order to qualify as medical examiners. Yet
something must be done if the basis of the examination
was to be broadened, and by dint of persistent pleading
he obtained a Statute which permitted Masters of Arts to
become examiners for the degree in Medicine. Later on,

a further step was taken, and the final concession was

obtained from Convocation allowing examiners to be
appointed who were not even Oxford graduates. With
the limits of choice so widely enlarged, he was able even-
tually to bring in such men as Sir William Turner from
Edinburgh, and Dr. Clifford AUbutt from Cambridge.

   But this was the work of years, and in the meanwhile
he did not allow it to be supposed that the occupant of

the Chair was, in Puritan phraseology, a ' dumb dog.'
The study of sanitation, the science of public health,

and what is comprehensively termed hygiene, were not
yet out of the embryonic stage, and it seemed to Acland
that something might be done in this direction by
lectures both to members of the University and to the

outside public. These lectures he was able to supple-
ment with a novel form of demonstration.

    Part of the emolument of the Regius Professorship was
derived from the Hospital of Ewelme, of which the Pro-

fessor was ex-officio Master. The affairs of the Hospital

had been the subject of a Chancery suit which lasted
during the whole professoriate of Dr. Ogle and substan-

tially affected his income, as it entailed a temporary sus-
pension of cash payments. The suit was now at an end,
and as Master of the Hospital Acland was able materially

to improve the condition of the inmates and to exercise
a beneficent influence over those who were virtually his

tenants. Among the estates out of which the Mastership
was endowed were some farms in the village of Marsh
 Gibbon in Buckinghamshire. When the newly ap-
 pointed Professor first visited this Midland 'Auburn*
 it was a type of what the Enclosure Acts, combined
1858] THE REGIUS PROFESSORSHIP  253

with non-resident landlords and a Chancery suit, can,

or could, do to a once smiling hamlet. Half-ruined

cottages, a grey old Elizabethan manor-house drifting
into decay, a shallow pit of brown peat-coloured

water, serving as the reservoir for the inhabitants and
as the common drinking-ground of the sheep and cattle,

were the most salient features of the village. A knot

of dwellings, freehold for the most part, and bearing the
obscure title of ' The College,' stood in the midst of a
tiny sea of dark brown slush. Against each of them

leaned its pigsty, and the muck-sodden earthen floor
of the lower rooms was scarcely less crazy than the

gaping planks of the upper story. To this upper realm

the only access was by a ladder, frequently defective

in its rungs : and a room twelve feet by ten afforded
sleeping accommodation to a dozen persons -- father,

mother, and grown-up boys and girls. Lace-making, by
which the scanty wages of the families were eked out,

was taught in a room where thirteen children enjoyed
504 feet of cubic space between them.

   The character of the population was in unison with its

surroundings. A sullen savagery was the prevailing

note : the men who were connected with the working of
the Enclosure Acts went in fear of their lives ; a solitary
policeman would never have dared to enter the village,

and postboys hesitated about driving through it at
night. Even the beauty of the warm June evening on
which Acland first saw Marsh Gibbon could not cast

any glamour over the squalid misery of the villagers :
 poverty, disease, and all their attendant curses were

 apparent even on the surface.

    It would take too long to tell how, with the cordial
 assistance of the other Ewelme Trustees, of whom the
 Dukes of Buckingham and Marlborough and the Earls
 of Jersey and Macclesfield were leading members,

 he gradually introduced order and decency into the
 place. Well-built and weather-proof cottages, a system
 of careful and effective drainage, and a well-contrived
254  HENRY ACLAND                                          [1855-

water-supply were the ultimate fruits of his labours.
Hither once or twice a year he would bring from
Oxford a class composed of undergraduates, clergy-

men, medical men, and, sometimes, ladies, and would
give a practical lecture on the fundamental laws of
health, on the construction of village dwellings, and on
the causes of preventable disease. The ruins of the old
cottages combined with the vivid recollections of the

Professor were enough to reconstitute the past. Even
the present had its lessons of warning, for some of the

village homes, however picturesque and comfortable in
appearance, were by no means models of sanitation.

   Acland always regarded those country excursions as
a most valuable ingredient in the study of National
Health, and as an appropriate discharge of public duty
on the part of a teacher of Medicine. Towards the
people of Marsh Gibbon his proofs of interest and affec-
tion were unceasing: besides acting in conjunction
with the estate-agent as a general redresser of wrongs,
and appeal court in case of need, he maintained at his
own charges a village dispensary and helped liberally in
the establishment of a reading-room. It was often his

custom, when jaded by overwork, to pay a flying visit

there in the summer afternoon, and sleep at a small
farm-house, sharing in the humble fare of the inmates

and joining with them in their simple evening worship.
He has given a description of one such scene in the
best known and most interesting of all his published

writings ^
    There was another direction in which Acland con-

sidered that he was enabled to serve the University as
Professor-- in the capacity, namely, of the Oxford repre-
sentative on the General Council of Medical Education

and Registration, which had come into existence
within a year of his appointment. The need of some
 central body in the medical profession capable of

   ^ Health in the Village, written for the International  Health
Exhibition, 1884, p. 80.
1858] THE MEDICAL COUNCIL  255

regulating and standardizing the qualifications to be

possessed by its practitioners had long been recognized.
There were in the United Kingdom no less than twenty-
one ^ separate licensing bodies, entirely independent of
one another, which possessed the power of issuing
certificates, and of conferring titles that purported to be

evidence that the holder was qualified or competent to
practise Medicine. The tests imposed by these bodies

differed widely, and the titles they conferred were in
many cases only recognized within certain localities.

It was admitted that laxity as well as diversity often

characterized the granting of these licences, and that the

qualifications were obtained on very insufficient evidence,
while the legal restraint upon imposture was ludicrously
shght. The public had no guarantee that the holding
of a medical qualification or the use of a medical title
implied the attainment of any definite standard of
professional skill. And the doctors suffered from the

discredit which was cast upon the profession as a whole

by their inability to exclude the unqualified and the
disqualified. There were other reforms, such as the
provision of machinery for the removal of unworthy
members of the profession, which were urgently needed,
but which the absence of a central medical body tended
to postpone indefinitely ; and nearly every session of
Parliament from 1840 onwards saw the introduction of
some bill or other intended to constitute a council which

should deal with medical education and other matters

necessarily involved in such a scheme.

   As far back as 1847 Acland had been consulted by
prominent members of the House of Commons with
regard to the feasibility of a General Council, its powers,

and the principles on which it should be constituted -.

'' ^ Including the ' Lambeth degree ' of the Archbishop of Canter-

  Itbury.

         was with special reference to Sir James Graham's bill in
1848 that Acland published the recommendations contained in his
letter to Dr. Jacobson.
256  HENRY ACLAND  [1855-

Finally the Medical Act of 1858 was passed, which
created a Central Council for the United Kingdom
consisting of twenty-four members, six of whom were
nominated by the Crown ; seventeen were to be elected
by the Universities and the various Colleges of Physi-

cians, Surgeons, and Apothecaries in England, Scotland,
and Ireland; the chairman chosen by the Council itself

made the twenty-fourth. It was the duty of the Council
to keep and publish a register of qualified practitioners ;

to require information from the several licensing bodies

in regard to the qualifications enforced by them ; to

report to the Privy Council any licensing body which

seemed to be acting irregularly; and to erase from the
Register the names of practitioners who had been struck
off by their own licensing bodies, who had been con-
victed at law of certain offences, or who were judged
guilty by the Council of ' infamous conduct in any
professional respect.' To these educational and dis-

ciplinary functions Parhament added the compilation
and publication of an authoritative Pharmacopoeia.

   The constitution of the Council was the crux which

had proved fatal to so many previous endeavours. The

principle adopted was that equality was equity, and
neither the Royal College of Physicians in London nor
the Royal College of Surgeons had more than their one
member apiece, while the Queen's University of Ireland

had the same representation. If the Council was to win

the confidence of the profession at the outset, the Royal,
or rather the Ministerial, prerogative of nomination
would require the greatest discretion in its exercise.
As the following letter shows, Acland was much con-
sulted in this delicate duty by Mr. Spencer Walpole,
the Home Secretary, on whom the administration of

the Act mainly depended.

My dear Dr. Acland,
      I am much obliged to you for your kind information of

Dr. Brodie's opinion, and your own as far as it goes, but
they do not, I fear, very much help me.
1858]  THE MEDICAL COUNCIL  257

   However, I have made up my mind, and the names I
shall propose, if they all accept, will be Professor Christison
(Scotland) and Dr. Stokes (Ireland), Sir James Clarke and
Mr. Lawrence (London), Mr. J. C. Hastings and Mr. Teale
(the Provinces). Dr. Watson will, I hear, be elected for

the College of Physicians.

   I hope I have made such a selection as will, upon the whole,

give the greatest satisfaction to the Profession and to the
Public generally -- of course either they or any other selection

would be open to criticism ; but I doubt whether a better
could well be made. Sure I am, I have had but one object.

                                               Yours ever,

                                                       Very faithfully,
                                                         S. H. Walpole.

   With strong views as to the possibilities before the
Council, Acland combined a wide knowledge of the per-
sonnel in the higher walks of his profession and of the
degrees of encouragement or discouragement which
might be expected from sundry bearers of distinguished
names. He himself had been naturally suggested as a
Crown nominee, but the University of Oxford had a prior
lien on him. The first sitting of the Council was held on
November 23, 1858, and it fell to Acland's lot to propose
as President his old friend and master Sir Benjamin

Brodie.

   Into the work of the Council Acland threw himself

from the very first meeting, and he acquired an influ-

ence there which led twenty years later to his election

as President. It cannot perhaps be said that the
Council has in all respects satisfied the expectations of

its promoters, but it has accomplished a very notable
work in unifying the profession and placing the
entrances to it under trustworthy guardianship. The

several licensing bodies have submitted themselves to
a * levelling up ' process, and the elaborate recommenda-
tions as to study and examination which the Council

has circulated from time to time have been very

generally adopted.
258 HENRY ACLAND

   It was on this educational side of the Council that

Acland's activities were conspicuously displayed, and

the labour entailed was enormous. It was permitted
to the Council to send visitors to inspect the conduct
of the examinations held by the various licensing

bodies ; on these missions he was occasionally employed,
and it was mainly through his agency that the visitors
were welcomed at Oxford and were allowed the privi-
lege of access to the candidates' papers, and permission
to take them away to London or elsewhere. And in the
entire remodelling of the Oxford medical examination
he was able in many respects to give practical effect to
the recommendations of the Council.
                  CHAPTER X

  THE ROYAL PHYSICIANSHIP-- VISIT TO
         AMERICA WITH THE PRINCE
                        OF WALES

                                         1858-1860

   In the last week of July, 1858, just as he was pre-
paring for a holiday trip in Wales with Liddell, Acland
received a Royal command to dine and sleep at
Osborne, the Dean being included in the invitation. It

was his first introduction to his Sovereign, and the visit

was in every way delightful. The Solent was looking
its brightest, and the birthday of the Prince Consort

was being celebrated with feasting and sports for the

tenants of the estate and the crews of the yachts. All

the Queen's children were there, with the exception
of the Prince of Wales ; and Acland was particularly
attracted by the young Prince Alfred, better known in
after life as the Duke of Edinburgh. After dinner the
Queen honoured him with a conversation about Oxford
and the Museum, and the Prince Consort walked him
about the terraces and statues in the moonlight, talking
botany. The object of the invitation, it transpired, was
to ascertain whether he would be willing to accept
the medical charge of the Prince of Wales during his
impending residence at Oxford.

   No definite arrangement was made, and Acland and
Liddell duly carried out their Welsh programme. But

early in September the former received a letter from

Sir James Clarke, the Queen's physician, saying that
the Prince Consort, who was then at Balmoral, very
much wished to see him with regard to the Prince of
Wales, and on 'some other points of importance,'

                                                s2
26o  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

and proposing that he should come up and spend a day

or two at Birk Hall, Sir James's home when the Court
was in the Highlands. Acland started on the 20th, and
on the 22nd learned the cause of his being summoned.

   Yesterday brought out the object of my visit (he wrote to

his wife). I am sorry to say the Queen put off an excursion
till to-day which had been fixed for yesterday. I did not

see her ; the whole business was transacted with the Prince.

I leave to-day for Braemar, and to-morrow go to Leeds to
see Sir Benjamin Brodie. The question I have to answer
is whether I should like to succeed Sir James Clarke as

the personal Physician of the Queen and Prince Consort.

I proposed to leave it to Sir Benjamin to decide, a determina-

tion which greatly pleased the Prince. The whole was pure
business of the most unreserved and straightforward kind,

and has but confirmed the impression I had of the Prince's

intellectual powers, and increased my interest in him and

feelings of personal esteem ^ Sir C. Phipps said of him, as

we had a walk after our conversation was ended, ' he

had never known such another man, so pure, so just, so

sympathizing.'

   It had been agreed that Brodie's verdict should be

absolutely decisive, and Acland must have anticipated
that it would be adverse, for the Prince, as he left him,
said, shaking hands and laughing, ' Now do not go and
bet too heavily against your own horse.' On arriving
at Leeds he found that Sir Benjamin had left for
London, and he followed him to his country home at

Broome Park. A day later Mrs. Acland was informed
by her husband that ' by Sir Benjamin's advice I write
definitely to decline.' His reasons are best given in

his letter to the Prince Consort :

   After the fullest consideration that we can give I am

  ^ Acland wrote to Dean Liddell of this same occasion, 'The
Prince won my heart more than ever : he showed heart and

gentleness and thorough kindness, as well as his usual sagacity
and clearness.'
i86o] THE ROYAL PHYSICIANSHIP  261

forced to the conclusion that it is my positive duty to

represent to Your Royal Highness that I do not consider

myself to be among those from whom a succession to the

duties now performed by Sir James Clarke can safely be
selected. We think that the strength which has sufficed for
the intermittent work of Oxford would not suffice in London :

I must reckon on having more to do in London than I have

had in Oxford ; for if I were to move thither I ought to strive
to keep the same professional standing there which I had in

Oxford. If I did not succeed it would reflect discredit on

the Queen's ph3'sician ; and if I did, sad experience has

shown me that from time to time my health would certainly

fail. Your Royal Highness would then have the trouble of
making another selection, and Her Majesty would endure the
inconvenience of another change.

   Further, I should be expected to take an active part in
various public questions ; and I should be consulted upon
them, having a very various acquaintance in London. I
I attended to them I should be distracted from the business

which brought me thither, to be a thorough, practical physician;

if I did not attend to them, it would produce dissatisfaction
which I should not like to bring upon one of the Royal

Household.

   Those are circumstances which affect not the office but

me : they would not influence either a strong man, or one

who had not been by circumstances brought before the

public in various matters not absolutely belonging to a

physician.

  All this I beg dutifully to submit to Your Royal Highness.
I ought, perhaps, to say no more, but I cannot end without
adding that I shall look back on the conversations I have
had on the subject, and concerning His Royal Highness the

Prince of Wales, as among the most fortunate moments of
my life, giving me fresh ground not only of gratitude for

your personal kindness, but causing me as an Englishman
increased thankfulness for Your Royal Highness's example.

   I shall return to my duties as one of the Queen's pro-

fessors with renewed desire to further in all ways in my

power Your Royal Highness's large views for the education
and wellbeing of the people of England.
262  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

  A draft of this letter was sent to Sir Thomas Acland,
who returned it with the endorsement, * All right ! Like
a gentleman.' It was acknowledged by the Prince

Consort in very kind terms ; while not disguising his

disappointment he allowed that the reasons contained
in the letter and the advice of so competent a friend and

counsellor as Brodie were conclusive as to the prudence
of the decision. In a letter of the same date to Liddell,

Acland was at pains to insist that no formal offer had
been made : * The object of the conversation with the
Prince was to explain to me Sir James Clarke's duties,
with a view to my being enabled to judge whether
I would undertake them. (I may not refuse mt offer',
therefore no offer was made, so Sir C. B. Phipps ex-

pounded to me.)' And he put in a nutshell Brodie's

dilemma : ' If I succeeded in London as a first-class

physician I could not stand it ; and if I did not I should

have had no business to be the Queen's physician.'
Brodie also appears to have laid stress on the extreme
importance of the work which Acland was doing at

Oxford, and the impossibility of replacing him. A few

years later, when it seemed probable that the offer might

be renewed, he expressed in a letter to his father an

opinion that Sir Benjamin had estimated the Oxford life

too highly, and had been blind to its disadvantages.
But in the light of future events there can be little

difference of opinion that Sir Benjamin was right, and
that Acland, if he had become a Court physician, would
have gained little, while Oxford would have suffered

grievous loss.

    In the October Term of 1859 the Prince of Wales
 came into residence at Oxford. He was entered as a

 Nobleman at Christ Church, but he resided in a private

\house Frewin Hall, under the direction of General

 Bruce. It had been arranged that Acland was to

   ^ Acland had placed his own house in Broad Street at the
disposal of the Prince, and there had been negotiations for a house
close to the Botanical Gardens, presumably Dr. Tuckwell's.
i86o] THE ROYAL PHYSICIANSHIP  263

be attached to his person as medical adviser, and the
responsibility was duly assumed. Fortunately the
duties were not onerous ; the Prince enjoyed excellent
health, and on the rare occasions when the care of a

physician was necessary he was a most docile patient.
The post was one for which Acland was admirably
suited, and which he filled to perfection. He was
endowed by nature with the gift of perfect simphcity,

which carries a man unscathed and undaunted through
every form of social vicissitude. Possessed of no small
share of that 'grand manner' which birth alone can
give, he was at his ease alike with the highest and
the lowest in the land, and seemed unconscious of the

existence of any distinction ; but at the same time
loyalty and reverence for his Sovereign were part of his
religion. He felt towards Queen Victoria and her
children as his cavalier ancestors had felt towards the

Stuarts :

The king shall follow Christ, and we the king,
In whom High God hath breathed a secret thing.

   He was no slavish worshipper of authority, nor was
the Royal House hedged round, to his eyes, by any
immunity from the failings of ordinary men and women.
But in his creed and practice, to honour the king

followed close upon the injunction to fear God, and the

personal relation in which for over forty years he stood
with the various members of the Royal Family only
tended to strengthen more and more the feehng of
sacred duty with which he undertook the care of the

Prince of Wales in 1859. He had the gratification of
knowing that his services were not unappreciated, and
the unfailing kindness and consideration of his Royal
Mistress and her children were a source of pride and
consolation to him in joy and in sorrow. The Prince
of Wales during his sojourn at Oxford was a constant

visitor at the house in Broad Street ; he felt, hke all the
world beside, the attraction which Mrs. Acland never
264  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

failed to exercise upon those who were brought in
contact with her ; he was a not unfrequent member of

the evening circle in the httle drawing-room ; and in the

simple friendly letters which he found leisure to write
from time to time to his old physician he always re-
membered to send some kindly message to Mrs. Acland
and the members of her family.

   In the course of the next year an invitation to cross the
Atlantic and represent his Mother at the opening of the

Montreal bridge over the St. Lawrence, and the laying
of the foundation-stone of the Parliament House at

Ottawa, was accepted by the Prince of Wales ^ It was
the first occasion on which the heir to the throne had

visited a British Colony, or indeed, since the Crusades,
had travelled outside Europe. Canada was far off in

those days ; it was thinly populated and little known ;

and public opinion had scarcely decided whether

Colonies were a nuisance or not. Still the Royal tour

was a great event, and the most sluggish imagination
could hardly fail to be impressed by it. The Prince's
suite was carefully selected. The Duke of Newcastle

went with him as Secretary for the Colonies, Lord St.

Germains, an experienced courtier, was directly in
charge of his person, assisted by General Bruce, and
Acland was asked to join the party as medical attendant.

It was a serious responsibihty, but he had no hesita-
tion in accepting such a mark of confidence. His
practice was left to itself Rolleston kindly undertook
to act as his deputy in University matters. Mrs. Acland

and the children were bestowed in lodgings at the sea-

side, and in the first week of July he was at Osborne

ready to start.

   On the 9th of that month H.M.S. Hero^ under the
command of Commodore Seymour, set sail with the

   ^ Canada had raised a regiment during the Crimean War, and

begged hard for a visit from the Queen. That being impossible,
they asked for a Royal Prince as Governor- General. Finally
the arrangement in the text was arrived at.
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  265

Prince and his suite on boards Though it was the
height of summer the weather was cold and disagree-
able. They ran for nearly 1,000 miles, seeing no star
and scarcely the sun ; and the latter part of the voyage
was rendered to some degree hazardous by the fogs
which hung around the shores of Canada. During part
of the time the Hero was towed by her consort the
Ariadne, in order to allow of husbanding her coal for
emergencies. Acland enjoyed the life on board ship
with all the old zest of his days in the Mediterranean

three-and-twenty years before, and possessed an im-
munity from sea-sickness which was not shared by

the rest of the party. He records how, while the
Prince of Wales lay in his cot overcome by the
pitching of the ship, he enlivened the tedium of the day
by reading to him four cantos of ' Hiawatha.'

   You will imagine (he writes) that we have much con-
versation. I seldom get up till breakfast, as I crois devoir
take it easy -- a life, by the way, I am getting quite tired
of. We breakfast in state; i.e. meet in the Prince's cabin,

and he goes into the common cabin first, we after ; the Duke

on one side of the middle of the table where H.R.H. sits,

Teesdale'^ at the bottom, the Commodore at the top,

Bruce opposite H.R.H., I usually next Bruce, the other
equerry and secretary anywhere of the remaining two seats.
Three sorts of hot meat or cold are handed round ; we have

done chatting by 9.45 ; the Prince rises, and we file off.
Lord St. Germains is very precise ; and we (the Oxford
party) not being so, bow exceedingly to correspond, relaxing

afterwards to our own dear selves, H.R.H. enjoying both

performances to the utmost; then we go to read, usually
either in the 'Lords-in-waiting' cabin, or the main cabin

   ^ The voyage down the Solent on the Royal yacht made an
indelible impression on Acland's mind : see Sir Theodore Martin's

Life of the Prince Consort, vol. iv, p. 13.
  ^ Sir Christopher Teesdale, Equerry to the Prince of Wales

from 1858 to 1890. He was one of the heroes of the defence of
Kars, and, together with General Bruce, had been in attendance

on the Prince during his residence at Oxford.
266                      HENRY ACLAND                                             [1858-

all together, or in our cabins ad libitum. Lunch at 1.30, and

dinner at 6.
   The Duke of Newcastle has quite won my heart; he is

so honest; so just; so full of various knowledge, not profound
but extensive and sensible ; so without any desire for form,
beyond what is his own nature, that I am getting quite a

regard for him. Bruce ^ I wonder at more and more -- I do

not know hardly what he has not thought upon ; pinch him
where you will, and he gives out thought or its fruits. He
reads a great deal and reflects on what he reads. He is hard

at work at Bancroft
                         '^.

                                           a
Another entry records how the Prince had lunch

with the middies, and how sea suddenly broke in the

stern light and pretty well swept them from the table.

On another occasion Acland himself visited the gun-

room, sat and chatted with the young gentlemen,' and

arranged to give them drawing-lesson. This friend-
                                         a
                                               a'
liness was reciprocated in practical manner. Rising

early in the morning to see the sunrise, he was con-

ducted down below by hospitable middy, introduced
                                         a

to another of the same rank who was boiling cocoa in

the stoke-hole for the officer of the watch, and there

regaled with basin of the beverage which warms but
                      a

does not inebriate.

On Monday, the 23rd, the Hero reached Newfound-

land, and entered St. John's Harbour; the Prince and
his party landed on the following day. There were the

usual ceremonies-- procession through crowded streets,
a
                        a

                                      a
the presentation of addresses, review of the Volunteers,
                                                   a
                                                              is
                                                                               a
levee and luncheon at the residence of the Governor,
Sir Alexander Bannerman. 'He
                                                   an aged strong-

bodied Scotchman, and Lady Bannerman splendid

Scotch Dame of measured forms of speech and of

     General Bruce, the brother of Lord Elgin and of Lady

Augusta Stanley, was no stranger to Canada, having served there
for a year.

     Acland, should be added, put himself through course of
reading on Colonial and American History during the voyage.
^*                                                 a

                  it
i86o] VISIT TO AMERICA  267

person.' Acland would never have guessed that his
hostess was Margaret Gordon, the first love of Thomas
Carlyle. The Governor himself was a homely man
in many ways. Plain black with white cravat was in
orders for the dinner costume, and Sir A. Bannerman,
being without the latter article, borrowed it from one of

the Prince's footmen, and with much simplicity narrated

the fact at dinner to the Prince. Obedient to the

resolution which he had formed of acquiring as much

practical and professional knowledge as possible,
Acland spent such hours of leisure as he could snatch
in visiting the lunatic asylum, the hospitals, and the

fish-curing establishments.
   Halifax was the next destination, but the party

landed at Sydney in Cape Breton, saw the coal-mines
and a settlement of Micmac Indians, and inspected the
Volunteer Corps, * admirably dressed in blue blouse of
strong serge or woollen material with a belt round the
waist, rifles and bayonets, and a kind of wide-awake.'
These were the early days of Volunteers, and Acland,
as one of the Oxford University Riflemen, looked with
interest into all the details of equipment.

   Thence we sailed, and steamed the same afternoon along

the coast, passing between Flint Island with its lighthouse

and the mainland, and through a very narrow channel and
shoal waters for the purpose of seeing the entrance to and

ruins of Louisburg. . . . This touching and mournful place cost
the French a million and a half to fortify, and us two fleets
to take ; it was taken by Lord Amherst, and is now without

an inhabitant. Through our glasses we could see the broken

batteries, and the grass-covered embrasures lining the shore.
The sun set angrily and solemnly behind the low range ; the
sky was broken by the long low lines of jagged undulating
firs. The next day was our day of rest ; it was a calm. The
fires were banked up and the sails flapped idly ; we had our
peaceful day as each could spend it. A great seaweed was

caught, and I thought it no desecration of the Sunday to
collect from its surface some polypes-- a species I was not
268  HENRY ACLAND                                                                                           [1858-

acquainted with, but allied to Sertularia -- and to show it with

a long explanation to General Bruce, Captain Orlebar, the
Prince, and some midshipmen ; explaining the formation of

the Medusae from the Hydroid Polypes, and the general
relations of these minute scavengers of the ocean to decaying
matter, to the higher animals, and to the formation of islands

by the coral reefs.

   The Hero reached Halifax on July 30, and the'
                                                                                                       ')·
Prince and his companions crowded a heavy pro-
gramme into the next seven days. The doings of the
week are recorded in Acland's letter by a series of mere
jottings which render extracts impossible. He found

time to visit the lunatic asylums, poor-houses, and other
public institutions, while bearing his full share of the

balls, dinners, and processions. He mentions a walk

with Bishop Field, the text of the sermon in the cathe-
dral, and his perusal of some of the more serious
writings of Judge Haliburton (' Sam Slick Other
entries record swim in the harbour with Teesdale and

Grey^,' 'swim off raft on St. John's river.' On the 8th
the party re-embarked on the Hero, and landed on
Prince Edward's Island on the following day. Here

the same enthusiasm was experienced, and much the
same routine was followed. On the 12th the Hero

anchored in Gaspe Bay. This was the appointed
rendezvous for the Governor-General of the Canadas,
Sir Edmund Head, who came on board to breakfast

next morning, and his executive council followed him

in separate steamer as the flotilla proceeded to the

mouth of the St. Lawrence. In letter to his sons

Acland describes their excursion up the Saguenay
^

 a

                                        It

                                                             a

                                                                                                                                                   :
Mr. Price was with us. He rents from the Government

of Canada the whole river.  extends very many miles,
perhaps 150 -- and still further through lakes. He employs

     Son of Sir George Grey, and the Prince's equerry and valued
friend. When he died in December, 1874, the Prince of Wales
wrote of him to Acland in most feeling terms.
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  269

3,000 workpeople. He has built saw mills at the streams,
of which one cost £50,000. Mr. Price put some tents for us
on the shore of the river St. Marguerite, which runs into the
Saguenay. In each tent was a buffalo-skin for us to lie on,
boughs of fir-trees for our carpet, dishes of birch-bark, and
stools and tables tied up with birch-wood. He had fifteen
canoes with Indians and hunters. Each of us went in one

up the rapids. Each canoe is made of birch-bark, as Hiawatha
made his. We knocked against the rocks. The great waves

threw us about, and we seemed ready to be overwhelmed.
When we could not go on we jumped on shore and carried
the canoe and got in again. At one rapid we had just got

through when a wave caught my canoe and dashed it round --
we all sat still and were swept like an arrow to the bottom of

the fall, to turn round and succeed the next time.

  At four o'clock on Saturday, August 18, the party

landed at Quebec.

   The preparations which have been made are of the most
sumptuous kind. No single word, however, can express the
nature of the Prince's reception. All classes have united to
make it acceptable -- acceptable from its unanimity, acceptable

from its loyalty, acceptable from its splendour, acceptable

from its considerate kindness, its manifestly heart-deep in-
tentions, its reflection of the sentiments of love for the old

home, for the England that is called and felt to be the mother

country ; and acceptable from the not unfounded hope which
the imagination is forced to entertain, that great benefit will
arise from all these things to England, to these good sturdy

people, to constitutional government and national liberty

throughout the world. I am writing now at an open window

in the Governor's residence, hanging over the St. Lawrence.

The house is called Cateraguay. It is a mile and a half from
Spencer Wood, the old Government House, which two years
ago was burnt down. We are three miles from Quebec :
between us lies the old battle-field of the Plains of Abraham.

   The state entry into the capital of French Canada
was deferred till Tuesday, August 20 ; on the preced-

ing day the party were entertained at a picnic in the
270  HENRY ACLAND                                                                                [1858-

wood by the falls of the Chaudiere, and here Acland's
old simplicity of taste asserts itself.

   The luncheon was so oppressively rich that I ventured for
once to express my opinion on state affairs, and I said the

Governor should represent to the Council that though the

liberality and splendour of their entertainments were most

gratifying, yet that, but for state purposes, it would be more

acceptable if in private the Prince was entertained in a
more simple and less costly manner; and I said that the

physician had no moroseness in his composition, but still he

could not but think of the contrast between the excessive

luxe and the toils of those who helped to provide                                                it I    and

there was an obvious difference between its adoption for                                            it,

public purposes or for private necessity. Which announce-

ment was heartily accepted.

      am quite in love with Sir Edmund Head, and indeed
I

            is

                                                       .
                                                            .

                                                   a
am getting very happy with my companions; for have

shaken out of all share in any state business as were,
                                                                         is

                                                                                              ;
am able to listen without talking, and to take the proper

place of the physician as quiet and ready companion when

useful or wanted. .                                          Sir Edmund  full of knowledge,

classical, artistic, scientific. He lost his only son suddenly

last year, and has since not rallied, and indeed takes little

interest in things compared to what formerly he did or
                                                                                                 ;

rather, less willing to exert himself, and in bad health.
                                                                         is

   In Quebec the party were established at the Parha-
ment House, which had been fitted up for the occasion

at great cost; fifteen saddle-horses had been provided,

with carriages and servants in livery to correspond,
while 100 men were told off as Guard of Honour to
accompany the Prince of Wales throughout Canada.
     is

           ;

                             a
                                              a
   Each of the suite has bedroom and sitting-room well and
neatly fitted up. We are looking north over the St. Lawrence,

which turns away homewards round the point to the right.

A battery under my window; Flying Fish, Ariadne, Hero,

Nile, beyond to the left timber vessels, and six miles off the
Falls of Montmorenci.
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA      271

   The Executive Committee were assiduous in their

attention, and among them Acland's chief alHes were
Mr. Rose, the Commissioner of Works, and Mr. Mac-

donald^ and Mr. Cartier, Attorney-General of Upper
and Lower Canada respectively. His spare time was
as usual occupied in an inspection of the educational
and charitable institutions of the city. The regulations
for obtaining the Medical Diploma in force at the Laval

University struck him as excellent in their severity.

The principle of the examinations is peculiar. Every three

months there is an examination by the professors of the

Faculty, each professor writing one question ; the answers

must be twenty-four pages fairly written. For these examina-
tions marks are given, and the total of these, if sufficient, gives

the Bachelor of Medicine in two years' time. If insufficient,

he has the option of a regular examination, which is intended

to be very severe. An examination of a serious nature

includes a viva voce (of three hours by statute), public to the

University and Medical Profession. This gives the licence.

Two years after practice or the licence the Doctorate is

...conferred, on a thesis which has been given to the professors
for perusal a month before.  It is a great mistake that the

Government does not publish a Medical Register, and before

any quackery becomes rampant it should be done. I hope

to be able to convince Mr. Rose, the Prime Minister, of

this.

   Acland's letters from Quebec contain such information
as he was able to glean from books and conversations
on the subject of the North American Indians : it was

a question in which he took much interest, and with

regard to which, before leaving Canada, he was to
receive enlightenment. Another topic which could not
fail to attract the attention of any competent observer

is dealt with in an extract from the New York Evening
Post which Acland enclosed to his wife. Written on
the eve of the great American civil war and eight years

   ^ Afterwards the famous Prime Minister of the Dominion,
'Sir John A.'
272  HENRY ACLAND     [1858-

before the formation of the Dominion of Canada, it is
a striking forecast.

   Some five or six years ago the Duke of Newcastle, atit it,
present the companion and mentor of the Prince of Wales
     a
in Canada, delivered a speech which we cannot conveniently
        if ;
put our hands on at this moment, but in which he distinctly
stated that he looked forward to the formation of a newa

empire on this continent at no distant day. This was noa
idle talk of the British peer. It foreshadowed a policy

already matured, and which only waited a convenient oppor-
tunity to be put into operation. The Crimean, Indian, and
China wars, together with the uncertain designs of France,
have kept England so much occupied since then that British
interests in America have been treated as of secondary im-

portance.
   The spring of i860 brought with it a period of comparative

repose for England. One of the consequences is that the
Prince of Wales is now on the American continent. The

Duke of Newcastle, the Queen's Secretary for the Provinces,
is with him. Both are for the first time quietly feeling the pulse
of the Queen's subjects there ; seeing face to face and confer-
ring with the leading men of the separate colonial possessions,
with a view, as we have reason to believe, of ascertaining
the practicability and expediency of bringing about at the
* earliest practicable period ' a consolidation of all the provinces,
for which there is unquestionably a strong popular aspiration.
The Canadian Government is decidedly in favour of while
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick are thinking about with
favourable dispositions Newfoundland and Prince Edward's
Island will not resist the rest can harmonize. The Red

River Valley wants Government, and British Columbia an
Atlantic connexion. All these combined have population
of over four million souls, million more than the number

of American colonists when they declared their independence,
and with tenfold the number and value of public works, to
say nothing of their advanced civilization. This hardy,
self reliant, and industrious population have grown up near

neighbours to our prosperous republic, and familiar with the
working of our institutions. They are not disposed to
i860] visit to AMERICA                                        273

become republicans exactly, nor to adopt our laws and

institutions entire if they could, but with the growing ambition

of a manly youth they are beginning to ask to set up for

themselves ; that to have some separate provision. Theya is,
                             a
are proud of the old family name, their model Queen, and,

since they have been allowed to govern themselves, of their

model Government, but they are not content to remain for

ever mere colonists, with no chance of imperial dignities;

they don't wish to be called for ever Canadians, New

Brunswickers, Nova Scotians, Prince Edward's Islanders,

Newfoundlanders, &c., &c., but they wish to have national
                                        a
                                                           a
name and national character. We have reason to suppose
is
                  athat one of the ends proposed by this visit of the Queen's
eldest son to Canada will be to propose suitable response

to these aspirations, and that will be forthcoming very soonit

after the return of the Royal party to England. If we may;

judge from such information as has already transpired, some

new name will be given to the entire British-American States,

and they will be placed under the rule of the young gentleman

whom they are now receiving with such attention, with the

title and powers of Viceroy. That something of this kind

in contemplation there can be no doubt.

If this tour were made simply for educational purposes,

like his trip to the states of the continent and to various

parts of the British Islands, he would not be permitted to

receive greater or more costly attention from the Queen's

subjects than he received there whereas, he received in
                                        a is
Canada as the immediate representative of the Sovereign,

the same etiquette and homage being required in all cases,

he alone being indulged with the freedom of intercourse

which European sovereigns usually part with on mounting

the throne.

   We may therefore reasonably expect, as one of the fruits
of this visit, the creation of Red River into colony, and

then the formation of united confederacy, extending from

Canada on the east to British Columbia on the west, com-

posed of six or eight independent state sovereignties, united

under  a  single viceregal federal head, to be as nearly

independent as can be made to consist with the Queen's

supremacy.

                                T
274            HENRY ACLAND                               [1858-

   That the Queen's Government is inspired to this step by
other than merely motherly considerations for Canada or
for her eldest son it is easy to suppose. The position which

our country is gradually acquiring among nations, and what
to foreigners seems its uncontrollable energy of will and

impulse, have caused us to be regarded as in some respects

a rather dangerous neighbour. Government is supposed

to be at the mercy of the people, and in the Old World it

is not the habit to put much faith in the people's respect

for other people's property unless protected by a pretty

strong government. It                       therefore, no doubt in view of
       is
                    it

                                       a

                                    it is,
the somewhat reckless foreign policies of the last two

administrations, and the tendency in the same direction

which  ascribed by large class of British statesmen to

our system of almost universal suffrage, that                  now
                                            a
proposed to consolidate and strengthen the British powera

on this continent so that may be more effective for militaryit
                                                           is
purposes than can possibly be while distributed about as

at present in the several provinces. With well-organized

government extending along our frontier the entire length

of the continent for           a  land approach, and      sea-coast

accessible to an invading fleet every fifty miles for more

than three thousand, the United States will find herself

under stronger bonds than she has ever yet been for her

good behaviour to England.

Acland adds his commentary                  :

                                              I

                                                                      a

                                                                 I
                                                                                                    ;

                                                                                     it
     had intended to have written to the same effect but,
I
   I

                          it
                           is
without pledging myself to all this article says, think

deserving your thorough attention.          will at later period

say more; now                  only necessary to say that the Canadians

are probably willing enough, and that the sole objection would

spring from the Lower Provinces. But had much talk on
                                            I

                                                       a
the subject with persons of political influence and knowledge,

and saw no real opposition, on the contrary strong desire

on their part. The Canadian and other N.B.A. colonies are

thoroughly averse to American institutions and manners.

   His allusions to the Heights of Abraham and to
Wolfe's crowning victory and death are chiefly remark-
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  275

able for his quotation of the noble and touching letters
of Montcalm, which Mr. Francis Parkman has now
made familiar to English readers. He mentions with
admiration the orders issued by the Government of
Canada for the charge of the party:

   The care, precision, and forethought displayed is quite
curious. We are catered for by an American hotel-keeper,

Mr, Anderson of New York, a kind of manly Spiers \ He

prefaced his account of himself to me thus : ' Doctor, I wish

you to understand in the first place I am a gastronomer by
taste, by profession, and by science ; and that I hope to live
to prove that in my hands the school of cookery in France,
England, and Russia or Germany, is inferior to the school
of America.'

   The nominal object of the Prince's visit to Canada

had been to open the gigantic bridge at Montreal,
which connected the island with the mainland, the north
shore with the south, Upper with Lower Canada. On

September i the party had reached that city, and

Acland summed up the impressions of the earher part
of his tour :

   There is something strange in the way in which every
place on our journey is progressively more striking than
the last. I was struck by the simple life of Newfoundland,
interested in the progress of Nova Scotia, astonished at the
energy of New Brunswick, instructed by the obvious civiliza-
tion of the entrance to Canada, unprepared for the energy
displayed by Mr. Price's trade at the Saguenay, almost awed
by the St. Lawrence and the approach to historical Quebec --
and now brought to a standstill of many questionings as
I sit before the outspread city of Montreal, the towns, the

spires, the banks, the bridge, the great river, the greater
plains, the distant mountains of the States. Round us are
the Indians and their birch canoes, near us the Governor-
General and the Commander-in-Chief and all the state of

   ^ Spiers, for many undergraduate generations the magnificent
provider of nick-nacks and most aristocratic of haircutters, has
long since vanished from the Oxford ' High.'

                                          T2
I276
    HENRY ACLAND                              [1858-

monarchy, a little way off the Guard of Honour come up from _

IRepublican Boston to wait on the Prince. To all the public

buildings I think one criticism is applicable, excepting only
the Anglican cathedral and some new houses. The French
Canadians imported a sense of proportion, but did not bring

detailed knowledge; therefore the general forms of their

buildings and their distant effect is much better than the

nearer view confirms. This is not uncommon either on

the continent, and was Sir Christopher Wren's fault also.
You will notice at once how it is the converse of Woodward's

buildings, as far at least as we know them.

    The bridge was successfully opened, but Acland

leaves the glorification of that engineering triumph

to the reporters of the Times and Illustrated London

Nezvs, and expatiates rather on the Meteorological

  Observatory upon the Isle Jesu, belonging to Dr.

  Smallwood, a man of ' little means but much v^it/ who

had come out to Canada as a surgeon in 1834, aged

twenty-two, had acquired a practice and a maintenance,

and set himself to work to investigate the effect of

climate upon health. This inquiry had developed into

the establishment of a regular Observatory, meteorolo-

gical, magnetic, and astronomical ; and Acland records

with zest the contrivances by which zeal and ingenuit}^

had triumphed over the lack of funds. ' I do not find

  that he can connect yet the observations with any

                               I

                                         is,
  sanitary conclusions or principles ; he however, now

  ...attempting to connect the sun's spots with the ozonic
  observations and magnetism.  have promised him

aa  set of the Radcliffe Observations, and have endea-

  voured to make his work known to several persons.'
    The Geological Museum at Montreal and the survey

  under the direction of that indefatigable person,' Sir
    ;
  William Logan, also attracted his attention, and he was'

  interested of course in the charitable and medical

  institutions of the city while the treatment of the local

  fevers, of pneumonia, and of Canadian cholera supplied

    fertile subject for conversation with the numerous
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA                                       277

acquaintances which he formed among the Montreal
doctors.

   We were lodged in various houses. I with the Prince in

General Williams's house, hired from Rose, the Commissioner
of Works -- with a good library, a splendid view, and some nice
pictures -- a place altogether in good taste, and its owner,
Williams, a noble, nice fellow -- good-humoured and witty,
as strong and firm --and Rose, a clever, pleasing, affable

lawyer, beloved and trusted. They have become quite
among my ' intimes.' The General has been into my bedroom,

where we all hold our personal levees, and, finding already
three or four there, he says on entering, ' Good morning,

Doctor ; now look here, if any fellow insults, worries, or

distrusts you, just you communicate the same to me, and

I am his man.' So pleasantly goes the daily life.

   The ist of September found the party at Ottawa,
where the Prince laid the foundation-stone of the new
Parhament House, and, after the luncheon which
followed, slipped away to enjoy the perils of a descent
on a lumber shde on the Ottawa River. Acland missed

his companions in the crowd and arrived by himself at
a bridge which crossed the stream.

I got on the bridge as the raft went through with the

Prince, Commodore, Governor, Bruce, and three or four more

on it. A chain hung from the bridge. I could not resist ;
                                                           '
they all called out,  ' Drop down, Acland,  come,  come  !    and

down the chain I went into the middle of them, and away we

bounded. People were lining the edge of the slide, and the

splash of the great raft as it rushed into the bottom or level

of the river was such that several crinolined ones were nearly

washed off the rock by the rush of the uprunning wave. As

I come up to write, in walks Sir Edmund Head again, and

sits down, and has but just left. I wish I could stereotype his

conversations. He was originally a Fellow and Tutor of
Merton : then Poor Law Commissioner -- then Governor of
New Brunswick-- then Governor-General of Canada --such

a varied store of knowledge -- such memory -- such quota-
...tions -- such mildness --such taste and tenderness.
                                                         I tell
278              HENRY ACLAND                       [1858-

him and Bruce how strongly you advise me never to talk, so
that they may with propriety take the most share !

After Ottawa the next stage was Toronto.

   We left Ottawa on a delightful excursion on Monday,
September 2, early in the morning. I do not stop to describe
scenery because I have many little sketches, rough enough,

but sufficient to enable me to explain all to you, when, God
willing, we meet. Still I must say Ottawa is a splendid

place. Below the town is the Rideaux Fall of about 50 feet
                               in full view of the town,
and 200 in width, and above    it,
                                                                             a
the splendid Chaudiere where the river, narrowed from mile

to few hundred feet, came violently surging down its ledgesa
and precipitated over its cliff. As we entered on this scene
on Friday, the moon was rising behind the Rideaux -- and

we, escorted by one hundred and eighty large canoes, manned
by six or eight men all clad in red woollen frocks The sun
                               it
                                                              ;

                                                         a

                                                                                                         !

                                                                         I
was setting on them and the Fall and as they paddled and

sang their rude songs produced an effect of a kind have
never experienced. We quitted more quietly in carriages and

drove nine miles up the river-banks past the Rapids, and

then embarked for fifty miles in steamer. We reached

in about six hours the Chats Falls and Portage, the Falls

so-called because the water comes leaping over like kittens

at play. We left our steamer, and our twenty canoes were

lifted out, turned over on to men's shoulders, and in pro-

cession, preceding, following, and mixing with us, we cross

the Portage to the Upper Lake there we embark, pull some
          splendid air and sun--reach Rapids-- another:
miles in                                         '
a
                    a                      a

                           It
portage-- out --walk one to two miles through the woods
with our boats -- off again and up to Mr. Maclaughlan's

pretty and comfortable settlement. Here at three we have

splendid lunch.                cost Maclaughlan £500 to make the

necessary preparation for this expedition.

From Mr, Maclaughlan's hospitable home they drove

through the forest to Aylmer, then the extreme station,'

and journey of fifty miles brought them to Brockville
     a

where they were greeted with                        most uproarious

demonstration. 'On the platform the crowd in all
'

   i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  279

   kindness all but crushed us. It was dark -- the Prince
   was got into a carriage and driven off. The whole
   town was illuminated. The roofs were covered with

   people frantically exploding fireworks, and we were
   preceded by some three hundred men in red dresses
   bearing great torches and firing Roman candles and
   rockets from their hands.'

      From Brockville the party proceeded by steamer to
   Kingston on the edge of Lake Ontario, and here began
   the only incident which disturbed the harmony of the

   Canadian visit.

      The complication of the Orangemen's movement has
   become more serious. The Orangemen in Canada form an
   important body; Lower Canada, as you so well know, is
   French and Romish. The whole of our splendid reception
   was by them. It would appear as though the Upper Canadians

   have taken umbrage at the way in which the Roman Catholics

   were received. We learned that the Orange party at Kingston

   had determined to pass through the streets in procession

   with every Orange emblem and motto, and to decorate the
   arches the Prince was to pass under in a similar manner.

   The Duke and Sir Edmund agreed that this act of

   tyranny could not be recognized. Orange lodges are not

   illegal in Canada ; but they are in Ireland \ and if the Prince

   formally and deliberately recognized them here, it was argued,
   it might have inconvenience at home. The Lodges and
   Orangemen deliberated half the night, turned out the leaders
   who advised moderation, and took possession of the landing
   places. We, therefore, could not land. Several persons

   came with addresses on board ; but the Mayor and Corpora-
   tion would not venture, and many members of the Govern-

   ment held aloof.

      About two we set off for Belleville re infcda up the Bay
   of Quinte. We received telegrams saying that at Toronto
   the Orangemen would withdraw, and we were to breakfast on

   shore and proceed by rail to Cobourg to-day to attend a ball.
   But a large body of Orangemen came by a special train at

   eight just as we were landing, put their emblems on the

                          ^ Under 4 George the Fourth, c. 87.
28o  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

arches, and the poor, loyal, sober people who wished from
their hearts to have us were left. Seventy young women had
in the night arranged to meet us on horseback and escort us
in, and Mr. Murray, whose family had been up all night
arranging for breakfast, were, alas ! disappointed ; we had

nothing to do but up anchor and away. We shall reach
Cobourg on Lake Ontario about dark, and if the Orange party

have not preceded us by rail we shall land and go to a ball

there to-night.

   The landing at Cobourg was quietly effected between
ten and eleven at night. There was an enormous

display and reception by torchlight, and the ball was
duly attended. The next day they were sent off on a
long railway journey, reaching Toronto at dusk. Here
their troubles recommenced.

   We had received telegraphic assurance that there would be
no Orange display in this capital of Upper Canada, and we

landed in by far the most splendidly prepared scene we have

witnessed. It surpassed Montreal, as Montreal all else ; an

amphitheatre containing certainly 10,000 persons, with many

thousands outside. We were engaged till long after dusk
with the procession. I was not aware of any contretemps,
but when we reached Government House we found the Duke

in a great taking : it appeared we had gone under an arch

with the portrait of William HI.

   The offence seems somewhat trifling, for after all the
* Protestant Deliverer ' had sat upon that throne which
the Prince of Wales was destined to inherit, but his
counterfeit presentment came under the heading of
' Orange emblems.' The offence, moreover, was aggra-
vated by the fact that previous to the entry into Toronto
the Mayor of that city, relying on a promise from the
Orange party, had written to the Duke of Newcastle to
say that the offending portrait had been removed. When
morning came the Duke's temper had undergone no
improvement, and he gave vent to a violent tirade anent
the Mayor at the -breakfast-table before all the servants,
and announced that he had written to tell that official
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  281

what he thought of him. The cooler heads among the
party were struck with consternation ; they saw them-
selves within measurable distance of a difficulty which

might have the most far-reaching consequences.

   I went to the Duke's room after breakfast (writes Aclandj,

and quietly begged him to pause in his strong letter to the

Mayor; for, I said, 'if I were Mayor or the people of

Toronto, I fear my temper would lead to retorts and retalia-
tion ; and if the Mayor and people happen to be of hard stuff,

you will have raised a storm which will never be quelled.'

He was very good to me.

But the Duke reiterated his opinion of the Ma3^or,
and ' swore roundly ' that if Canada could only be kept
on such terms it was not worth keeping. The senti-
ment has a fine smack of George Grenville and Charles

Townsend, and one realizes that the last forty years
have seen a considerable change both in the tempera-
ment and point of view of Colonial Secretaries.

   Of course I could only say (continues Acland), ' Well, you
may be right and it is probable ; but I could not rest without
asking you to pause.' Bruce and Lord St. Germains, agree-

ing in the alarm, got the letter remodelled into a gentler tone,

and all is for the time quiet. But I fear a sting has been

implanted, not easily to be withdrawn.

   However, it is satisfactory to find him adding a
postscript to the letter: 'Mayor all right. Duke ditto.

Mayor dined.'

   The Canadian tour was now nearly ended, but a

pressing invitation to visit the United States had been
extended to the Prince of Wales. It was decided that
he should accept it; and though it entailed a further
separation from his family of at least a month, Acland

felt that his duty would not allow him to think of crying
off^ As the departure from the ' Province' drew near,

   ^ The Prince Consort, with his usual thoughtfulness, had offered
him the opportunity of returning in tiTne for the Oxford term, and
282  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

enthusiasm seemed to increase, manifesting itself in true
Transatlantic fashion.

   There are sometimes twelve or more addresses a day ; and
now American deputations come up, even from the place of

' Gals/ Buffalo \ begging the party to go there. So great is

the furore that on board the Kingston, after we left, one of the
visitors kissed H. R. H.'s pillow, and cut up the soap that
was left into bits.

   On September 12 they quitted Toronto ;

but not till the Prince, returning from the ball which I

would not go to, had waked me up at half-past four to look at
a bruise which he had from a fall, and which I, half asleep,

rubbed with Arnica, he in full uniform, I in my shirt, the
whole process being solely for the fun of calling me at 4.30,
which of course I was not quick enough to see, and therefore
insisted on assiduously rubbing; nor indeed did I see it till
I had had my morning levee of a Professor, a Physician
(Wilson and Hodder), and a member of the Legislative
Council (Mr. Cayley), conversing with all on the subject of
the Medical Act which it is desirable to obtain for Canada.

   The 17th found them at Niagara. The marvels of
the waterfall have been described by too many pens
to admit of my quoting Acland's description : a more
personal detail must be accepted in its place.

   To-night after dinner there was a demand for skittles ; and
to skittles at ten we went, to a curious big room eighty feet
long at the back of the great hotel, and played as heroes in
Homer. H. R. H., Lord Hinchinbroke, Gore, and the

relinquishing his post to Sir Henry Holland, who was then on an
excursion in America.

   ' The allusion is to the almost forgotten song ' Buffalo gals, are
you coming out to-night?' Christy Minstrelsy was then all the
rage in England, and Lord Malmesbury, in his diary for July 24,
i860, tells how ' Gladstone, who was always fond of music, is now

quite enthusiastic about negro melodies, singing them with the
greatest spirit and enjoyment, never leaving out a verse, and
evidently preferring such as " Campdown Races." ' See also

Punch for October 11, 1884.
i860] visit to AMERICA  283

General commanding in chief; on our side, Sir Edmund
Head, the Duke of Newcastle, the Commodore, Grey, and
myself. The game lasted an hour : we beat. We had ' shegry
cobbler' to sip through straws -- a great institution. It is
now 11.30; I begged off to write to you; and they are at

it again, the Duke from time to time signing state papers

on the marking-board.

   The visit to Niagara was also marked by the renewal
of a curious acquaintanceship which Acland had formed

a few days earlier.

Some time since at Toronto, after I had seen and drawn

many, and read and inquired much concerning them, there

were standing one day in the passage two Indians ; I accosted
one, who answered rudely. I accosted the other, who said, ' I

'Ido not speak much.' ' Will you allow me to draw you ? '

do not much like it,' ' Oh ! never mind, I have drawn many :

they never object, come to my room.' He, slowly but not

sullenly, followed. He was a young man, herculean, with a
large ring in his nose, and painted. I placed him and began
to sketch. ' Do you hunt or fish ? ' 'Hunt, never; fish, not
often.' ' What is the Indian for pike ? ' (The answer is not
recorded, but Acland went on to say) ' That is not the
word always used -- Sturgeon is Nama.' ' Not in Mohawk, in

Ojibbeway it may be so : but in my dialect, which is Mohawk,

there is no word which requires closing the lips, and therefore

any person who knows Mohawk can at once eliminate a great

many words such as Nama, and say they cannot belong to

Mohawk.' 'Indeed,' I said, 'then you have paid attention to
the structure of your language.* ' Certainly, I desire to be

acquainted with whatever is of importance to my people.*
'Are you a chief? ' ' I am a chief of the Mohawks.' ' Is that
hereditary or elective ? ' ' Sometimes one, sometimes the

other, sometimes both, as in my case.' ' I am sure you will

forgive me for asking such a question ; I am a stranger, and
'Ilike to know all things --Why do you wear a ring in your
nose ? '  told you I take delight in all that concerns my

people; this ring is part of the old Indian dress.' 'Well,

but it is not a pleasant custom.' In a sad tone, ' It is the

custom, that is enough.' ' But surely you do not mean to
284                 HENRY ACLAND                                     [1858-

advocate every custom, you might now scalp me in no time,'

' Certainly not, by coming to your room you are my friend ;

I may and shall support all the customs of my people that
are harmless, because I please them by so doing, and can

therefore better aid them in their true elevation, and in all

that will develop their intellectual faculties and raise their
moral sense. For this reason I am indebted to Longfellow.
His "Hiawatha" is intended to purify and perpetuate the

Indian sentiment, and it is an admirable purpose.'
   ' Really, Sir, I must beg your pardon, but first what may

I call you ? ' ' Oron-hya-tekha.' * Pray say it again ; what is
the English of it ? ' ' Burning Cloud.' ' Well, I was about to
beg your pardon, Burning Cloud -- I shall never say it in
Indian -- for having asked you to come to sit (especially when
I make you so ill-looking). But of course I could not know
when I saw you what kind pf mental cultivation you had, or I

should not have thought it respectful to you ; so pray forgive

me now I cannot help it.'

   'The great drawback which any Indian of real cultivation

finds is that he is looked upon by the white men as an in-

ferior being. Those even who are appointed by your Govern-

ment to care for us look on us as children, and treat us so.
As long as this is so there will be no real manhood.' ' That

                      partly the fault of individual superin-
is,

  I
                I'

                             I,
                                                            '
                                                          ;
     dare say,' said

tendents, partly your own tell me now what else depresses

your race.'   should say the condition of our women. No

cultivated Indian can find in his wife suitable wife, and no
                                                               a

superior white woman will marry an Indian.'

     What the remedy you have schools provided for you,
''   is is            ;

                            ?
and few go to them and when they do go, they run away,

and the parents do not care.'

     That true but the schools are not advanced enough
              ;                                                      I is

whites would not care for them, or be elevated by them, they                -:I

are too low.  have two sisters, my heart's desire to give
     a

               I

                                        a

                              I
them good education. cannot do                                 it;   went myself all the

                                                                  I

way to Ohio, and lived on charity to attend the University.

became apprentice to shoemaker to get maintenance, and

then went back to my people and taught them what learnt

as well as could.'
I'
          II
     think can help you in more than one way, but, my
i86o] VISIT TO AMERICA                                                        285

friend, you had to leave by a train at four. It is now 2.30. I

have spoiled my drawing. Be gone, and God bless you ;

write to me your thoughts and your wishes ; I will do anything
for you, except give money, and that I cannot. Good-bye.'
* Your red brother thanks you : you will hear.*

This evening at seven, ' Burning Cloud,' who had written

to me at Niagara, walked into my room. There was sitting
with me a chief of the Cayugas, at tea. It was a strange
party : the steady and philosophic ' Cloud ' on one side ; the

illiterate, wiry, active Cayuga on the other, his chin resting

on his hand, eyeing me ; his hair, black and hard as horsehair,

tied tall over his crown, a handle for his enemy to scalp him ;

a bow and arrows on the table-cloth, and the peaceful doctor

between the two. The Cayuga had been seized to be drawn
as the ' Cloud ' had been ; very different were they. The

Cayuga a real child of the red men, and nothing more ; and

yet a true man. Hear his talk, you shall have one sentence :
                             work -- why not-- Indian
'You   say  Indian men   no  him -- God of Indian said,  w"isHh avdeo
       God   of Indian  bid
what
forests, have deer, have fur, and hunt" -- and Indian do it
                                   "" D--iganadndhebdeofaitr;mbeurst, wahnyd
well.  God of white men say,                                                   have
town,  and railroad, and all that                                             white

men come cut dowh forests and drive away deer and all

animals and then say Indian no work when Indian have no
place for huht ? '

   The Cayuga went away : he would not sell me an ornament,
for it was his wife's, he said -- and Oron-hya-tekha stayed.

He has remained the whole evening, while I unravelled the

laws under which the Indians live, sought to know what is to

be done for them, reasoned with him against his too great

confidence in the wisdom of 'preserving his nationality,* and

succeeded in introducing him to the Governor-General \

   ^ Not very long after his return to England, Dr. Acland received
a letter from Oron-hya-tekha announcing his intention of coming
to Oxford, and the letter was followed by the unexpected arrival

of the chief, clad, not exactly in his war-paint, but in mocassins
and deer-hide. He had worked his passage, and his capital
amounted to ^^d. Acland befriended him to the utmost of his
power, raised the necessary funds, and got him entered as a
student at St. Edmund Hall, of which Liddon was then Vice-
286  KENRY ACLAND  [1858-

   On September 19 the party entered the United
States. For purposes of etiquette, and to allow of as
much freedom of movement as possible, it had been
arranged that the Prince should assume a nominal
incognito and travel under the name and style of
Baron Renfrew.

   We reached Windsor station on the Canadian side of the
Detroit River. We walked into the huge steamer which
acts as a ferry. It was eight in the evening: we saw both
sides of the river illuminated, rockets flying, and ships lighted
up. On the boat were the Mayors of Windsor and Detroit,
and the Aldermen and the Governors of the Western States

and the Bishops of Michigan and Illinois. The quay and the
streets as far as the eye could reach were a mass of human
heads. There was not an inch whereon to land. To disem-

bark was impossible, and we saw and waited long the hopeless

endeavours of the magnates to get us room. At length we
rushed to some carriages, and, barely noticed, the Prince

unrecognized reached our hotel.

  At Detroit the Governor-General of Canada with his

ministers and entourage bade farewell, to Acland's in-
tense regret. Lord Lyons, the Minister at Washington,
with a couple of attaches, joined the party, as did also
Lord Hinchinbroke, otherwise it was reduced again to

Principal. Though he is mentioned as having prepared a grammar
of the Mohawk tongue for Professor Max Muller, Oron-hya-tekha
went back from Oxford without a degree, but he became, thanks in
no small measure to the interest which Acland continued to manifest

in him, a doctor of medicine in Canada, was appointed medical
attendant in the Indian Reserves, and is to-day a highly respected
citizen, famous for racy eloquence, and head of the important order
of Canadian Foresters. He never ceased to correspond with his
benefactor, and would often send him small specimens of his handi-
work, and on his visits to England on business connected with the
Foresters he seldom failed to pay a visit to Oxford and to Broad
Street. He once brought with him his wife and daughter to show

them, as he said, the man and the home but for whom he would

still be a wild Red Indian.
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  287

the original members who had gone on board the Hero

at Southampton.

   At tea this evening the order changed. Lord Renfrew sat
with the American Minister on his right, and his travelHng
companion, an EngHsh Minister (the Duke of Newcastle), on

his left. Teesdale and Grey, no longer at the bottom and top
of the table, are the Baron's friends. The Equerries left us
in Canada. Some details are changed in our forms, some
change there will be in our relations. The Duke is no longer
chief; Lord Lyons, a more capable man, shares government

Vv'ith General Bruce.

   It would be tedious to multiply extracts from Acland's
diary and correspondence during the journey on
American soil. Not only is the America of 1903 widely
different from that of i860, but many of the social inno-
vations, many of the institutions which impressed him

with their novelty, have become commonplaces to-da}^
The American Hotel, which so excited his wonder, has
multiphed itself in every European capital. The
Chicago whose growth he details almost with awe was
destined to perish in the flames, and out of its ashes has
arisen a town with which no city in the United States
of i860 could stand the remotest comparison.

   Perhaps the most remarkable feature in the record of

the short visit is the sublime unconsciousness alike of_^
guests and hosts that the country was on the verge of
a tremendous civil war which at a colossal price in blood
and treasure was to give birth to a new nation. Acland's
observations on the future of the country, and on the
effects of slavery, are shrewd and far-sighted in many-
respects. But neither he nor those with whom he con-
versed betray the smallest suspicion that the sands were
running out in the glass ; and he shows that reluctance
to credit the staying power of a democracy which ex-
plains the attitude and the errors of so many thinking
Englishmen during the war of secession.

* Now reflect,' he wrote to Mrs. Acland, ' these twenty newer
288  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

states are not slave states. The newer ones, these North-

west ones, abhor the name, not because they hate slavery

only, but because in the slave states the middle class is depressed.
There are wealthy men in several degrees, and slaves.

You are a slave-owner, a slave, or nobody. Not so in the
successful new states. Every man is "a man for a' that."
What chance, think you, has slavery in the whole Union ?
They will shake it off from their feet. The Southerns must
be outvoted. The old states have increased of late years ten
per cent., some of the newer districts tenfold. The votes
in Congress will become proportional.

   'And further, what chance, think you, has such a splendid

portion of the globe, inhabited by so strong and nobly ener-
getic a people, of desiring war ? How say you of the Chicago

people ? Will they wish war for an idea ? Will they bear

restraint ?

   ' We were treated at Chicago with true genuine politeness --
no interference -- but the greatest affability and almost courtesy.

There is but one desire, to show respectful kindness to the
son of a great and good mother.*

   Before leaving Illinois the Prince stayed for a couple
of nights at Dwight, where a certain Mr. Spencer
had built himself a farm right out on the Prairie.
There v^as a great shooting expedition, and fair bags
of prairie chickens (grouse) and quails are reported.
Acland took a gun, but failed to cover himself with
glory, partly from the fact that he was absorbed in
the flowers, the geology, and the cultivation rather than
the game. As the brother of a mighty farmer he was

interested in all pertaining to agriculture, and he learnt
enough about the enormous annual production of wheat
in the Western States to be prepared for the day when
the European markets would be flooded with cheap
corn.

   St. Louis was reached on Wednesday, September 26,
the latter stages being made on board one of the huge
river steamers which descend the Mississippi.

   I hope to bring home considerable information on this
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  289

district for your perusal, for I have sworn eternal friendship
with a person of combined ability and goodness, Captain
McLellan, now superintendent of the St. Louis and Cincinnati
line\ He was seven years engaged as an engineer officer in
the great survey for the Pacific railway. We landed in a
mob of rowdies on the levee or quay of the ' City of the
Mound.' Here was Liverpool Americanized, and Blackwall
gone rough. We did reach the hotel, to be called on, rushed

in on, and serenaded with the most pathetic of the national
airs and the maddest of ' Yankee Doodles ' till one in the

morning. Large gaslights in every bedroom and negro

servants.

   Acland was present at a great trotting match, and
was duly impressed with the Fire Brigade, but he was
more interested in the completeness of the educational
system and the excellence of the hospitals.

   Friday (September 28) we left St. Louis, rattled over
prairies and through forests along eight degrees of longitude
in fifteen hours out of Missouri into Illinois-- across Illinois
and Indiana into Ohio, and over against Kentucky--walked,
dined, and went to bed in our ' cars '-- came up to an overset
luggage-train -- and at midnight, meeting the Mayor and half
the Corporation of Cincinnati, reach the City of Hogs and
the pretty river banks on a cold moonlit evening about 1.30.

   His next letter is dated Octobers, from the 'Executive
Mansion ' ^ at Washington, and is a record of breathless

travel.

   The rush of cars and circumstances has left me no time for

thinking or writing. I am like a mass of clay under the

   ^ The friendship with the soldier who was so soon to command

the Army of the Potomac lasted until the death of the latter. A

magnificent buffalo robe, procured by him for Acland on this
occasion, is still in the possession of the family.

   "^ ' The President's residence is called the White House because
it is, as all other public buildings, of white marble, the Executive
Mansion because they always use hard words for plain things, and
the People's House to gratify the inordinate political mania of the
nation.' --Acland's diary.

                                                      U
290            HENRY ACLAND                    [1858-

hands of a dozen modellers at once : and into what manner of

thing I shall harden, if I harden at all, no one can foresee.
Our very pace astounds the Americans. We had run in from

90° long. (St. Louis) into 76° (Baltimore) since Friday morning ;

on October i to Pittsburg from seven a.m. till one a.m. next

day. From Pittsburg to Harrisburg at eleven p.m. on the
2nd, and thence through Baltimore to Washington, and
a state reception after our arrival at the President's, and a

state dinner for the American Cabinet to meet Baron Renfrew,
whom everybody calls the Prince after all.

He relates *hov^ we all rode on the engine swinging

along round sharp corners, up, over and down the

Alleghanies, rising 1,200 feet in twelve miles and down
again ' ; and ' how Sir Henry Holland and I had a

regular row because he thought a plaid unnecessary

for the Prince to wear at sunset on the engine when

I thought it necessary, and I told him he had not charge
of the Prince of Wales and I had, and that I should not
discuss whether I was right or wrong ' ; and ' H. R. H.'s

sweet and pretty way when he afterwards in the evening
said to me, " Neither of us will catch
breakfast next day, " Well, I                  cold now" ; and at
between you and Sir Henry      mean to         effect reconciliation
                               "                " Made, Sir, before
                                   ;  and  I,

breakfast." '

   Washington is like nothing else. It has a few palaces
shied down upon a rubbishy heath -- palaces of marble sur-
rounded by dirt-heaps. 'We are they,' is said by all these
great efforts -- and when they have said they spit on the
marble floor. At St. Louis there was a notice that persons

who spit on the walls are not proper guests for the parlour.
There are other cautions, really not so select and not proper
to be noted except in the Far West. But, on the other hand,

a man of St. Louis gives 1,000,000 dollars for education and
a company 1,500,000 for an hotel. At Baltimore one man,
Peabody, gave the other day--gave, not left -- 600,000 dollars

for an institute ; and we came from Baltimore to the capital

in a very dirty, rickety car with spittoons and the dirtiest

white curtains, along a single line, ready to be pitched oflf
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA       291

every moment, and at each turn of the road ; and between
Baltimore and Pittsburg, the main line of one of the most

important railways in the States passed right along the street,

unprotected, and slap along a street very little wider than
Holywell, with one or two curves in and out like the Corn-
market into George Street from Broad Street,

   We reached Washington yesterday about three, and drove

at once to the Executive Mansion. President Buchanan

received the Prince with all the simple cordiality of an old
English gentleman. He is seventy-seven years of age, of
stalwart proportions. There is no finer man in Oxford ; in
mere bulk and nobility of appearance he is bigger than he of

Wadham \ without the constriction of a clerical common-

room, and with the urbanity of one who had been ambassador
at St. James's, and the benevolence of a genial gentleman. It

was pretty to see those two, the old, the young; the old
representative of the burly young nation ; the young repre-
sentative of the old, historical, manly, yet disciplined nation :

to see those two standing alone in a balcony, chatting ; the
Prince leaning, with his slender, easy frame, and now thinned,

almost sharp, features (for we are all thin and wiry), against
the window-frame, and the erect old statesman gently dis-

coursing, but not a word that passed unheard.

   Acland little dreamed that he stood at the parting
of the ways, that Buchanan was the last of the genial
Southern gentlemen who was to occupy the White
House for many a long year. The ' burly young nation '
was on the eve of its great probation, and out in the
west the Illinois lawyer was already conducting that

great electoral campaign destined to lead, through blood
and sorrow, to the making of a new America.

   Then the next day there was a levee. The President,
with the Prince of Wales on his right and a few of us in
a line, had stationed himself in the middle of a large room
on the ground floor. On came the people -- one by one --
then two by two -- then swarm by swarm -- till the whole room

       ^ Dr. ' Ben ' Symons.
                  u2
292  HENRY AC LAND  [1858-

was full -- no one capable of being presented -- no way back
nor forward --and the illustrious recipients of honour like
balls in a bag equally pressed upon all sides, till by the rules
they used to teach us we should all have become hexagonal.
Ladies in crinolines and feathers. Gentlemen, and Gents,
in hats, uniforms, wideawakes, umbrellas, sticks, bundles;

children, too small to walk and old enough to be terrified, and
young enough to cry --a huge band playing frantically ; then,
in the hall, porters strive to get some in at the doors, ladies
taking headers like sheep in at the windows, while streams

of shouldering people, of all sizes and shapes and of either

sex, struggle out at the doorway.

   The levee ended at one, and was succeeded by an

oyster supper at the house where Acland was billeted.
The next morning he was hurried off ^ to Castle Hill,
Cobham, on a visit to Mr. Rives, who had been a guest
at Killerton, and who prided himself that his American
home and its surroundings were not unlike the Devon-
shire seat of the Aclands.

   Ten times did my good host ask me was it not like
Sir Thomas's place, and he recalled everything of his visit
--the dinner -- the conversation -- all the guests -- my father's
ways -- his lending him a shirt which was far too large for
him, and his great white necktie, because his luggage was
lost -- and setting a pleasant man. Lord Chichester, by him
at dinner that he might not feel uncomfortable for lack of

talk, being not like the other guests.

   Here for the first time Acland was brought face to

face with the negro question. There was not a servant
in the house who was not a slave. He records much

  ^ It was apparently this visit which prevented Acland from
accompanying the Royal party to the tomb of Washington, a visit
which formed the subject of a Cambridge prize poem in the
following year. The winner was the late Frederick Myers, and
two lines (thanks largely to a parody in Sir G. Trevelyan's Horace
at Athens) have escaped the limbo of undergraduate verse :

             ' For he did rear a race he might not rule,

                So thou shalt rule a race thou didst not rear.'
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  293

interesting conversation with his host and with others

who kept slaves, treated them well, and justified the

institution. It would be idle, though not uninteresting,
if space permitted, to reproduce the arguments. The
stern arbitrament of the sword was about to render
the ethics of slave-owning a merely academic topic.

Acland's summary, however, is worth recording, for
during the bitter years that were to come, public feeling
in England was largely divided, and, whichever form it
assumed, was seldom based on knowledge ^.

   I think you will be surprised to hear how very much more

perplexing a case it is than the Abolitionists represent or
know. Ignorance in part, and in part politics and passion,
have hindered fair accounts of the history and present aspect
of it from being correct. But at best it is mingled with
horror debasing to all humanity; with degradation too
hateful to paint to the negro ; and with a distortion of moral
sense astonishing to view to the whites.

   These last words are an echo of personal experience :

   So then I went to the Auction rooms, large, dirty-- like

second-class waiting-rooms in Shoreditch -- slave-dealers

hanging about in slouching hats, with sticks and pipes or
cigars and papers, sitting on three or on two chairs. No
auction -- two rows of slaves ; one, males standing ; one,

females standing. A coarse, expressionless man slowly

saunters up, opens the mouth of one, feels his arms, legs,
neck ; says no word. Negro does not move nor speak. He
passes on. Another not good enough for examination, and

  ^ A couple of years afterwards Acland submitted a copy of his

American Diary to the Comte de Paris, then a visitor at the
Deanery at Christ Church, who repHed : ' Mr. Rives's conversation
represents exactly the views of the enlightened slave-owners who
see the dangers of the situation, but are not strong enough to head
the current of opinion.' Acland had at another place recorded the
case of a U.S. lieutenant from the Rocky Mountains from whose

upper jaw an arrow-head, implanted three inches deep, had been
extracted after five weeks of suffering. The Comte identified him
as ' Brig. Gen. Bayard, a most distinguished cavalry officer in the

Army of the Potomac'
294  HENRY AC LAND                 [1858-

then another. He sits down expressionless --whistles --
walks -- tries again -- looks at the females, who are uncomely
and expressionless -- walks off. I meanwhile half sick with
emotion -- the result of association rather than any definite

and absolute fact, the effect of the whole scene and my whole
education and nature --lay down my Sun, one-cent paper,
and saunter too. ' No auction to-day. Sir ? ' * 'Spose not,
why should there ? ' ' Didn't know, a stranger.' ' Always
mornings.' We respectively sheer off. I descend the steps
into the sultry street, puzzled, thinking of you, of the Indians,
of negro races in Africa, of Darwin, of Wilberforce, of

death, all in one nightmare, and going into a bookshop see
Arthur's ' Daily Steps to Heaven.

   In this connexion one more incident deserves to be
recorded.

   I attended their service on Sunday and heard a negro.

Brother Dawson, a slave, pray. Nothing in * Uncle Tom '
could exceed it. There was a profound simplicity -- a force
of expression -- a tender Christianity -- an unearthly nature of
voice and of speech that was a Niagara or an Alps --a thing
new to my sense. And a flow of scriptural language that
was as David evangelized without a semblance of quotation.

   'Ah! Father,' he sung rather than said, 'what do we not
owe Thee? Thou madest us a little lower than the angels,
we made ourselves not much higher than devils. Thou daily
givest us, oh, how very much ! This day here we have from
Thee this sun, this House of Thine, and this holy cheering
communion of Thy blessed Church, and to feed our great love
of Christ. Thou givest us our food, our clothes, our dwelling,

our dear friends, our masters, our mistresses, and protection

from many, many evils, some which we know, some which we

know not. Oh, we are very happy, to be Thy children, very,
very happy -- let us not be confounded --let no enemies
triumph over us -- be our wisdom -- be our counsellor -- lead
us to Glory -- so will we never more go back from Thee -- oh !
then never, never, never back from thee, never any more.' And

his voice rang sweetly yet shrilly in a long, as though never-

ending, even, swinging cadence, and the people swayed with

     ^ His brother Arthur Troyte.
I        VISIT TO AMERICA  295

  i860]

him, gently undulating, and by a low faint musical murmur
praying in his words, the words too faint to be heard.

   They passed on to Richmond, to Baltimore, to Phila-
delphia. Wherever they went Acland found himself
well known to the medical profession, ' on account
of the book on cholera --and some other things -- so that

instant kindness and help is given me.'

   New York was reached on October 11. There were

only three days at the disposal of the party, one
of them a Sunday, but Acland contrived to see the
University, Cooper's Institute, the Astor Library, the
Deaf and Dumb Institute, the Hospitals, a torchlight

procession, and a Review, and to attend the noble

Trinity service. He records that they were ' settled in
a white-marble hotel much larger than the whole of
Queen's College, the Fifth Avenue.'

   It was decreed that a day and a night should be
devoted to the inspection of the famous Military School
at West Point, and a five-hours steam up the Hudson

brought them to their destination.

   We landed on a rude quay at the foot of a crag, scarce
a house in sight. There were officers and troopers waiting.
We had to ride. It was a bitter cold day. Such a set of
rude troop-horses, saddles, and stirrups I never saw. The
undress men, with their republican hats -- the old feather and
turned up brim -- the wild scene was altogether as of the
middle ages -- rusty hanging swords, capering, skipping horses
-- one dragoon nearly pranced over the cliff. The Prince and
the Colonel commanding going off first, we intermingled with

the thin-faced dragoons, their swords drawn and imminent

upon our heads--the water below -- the many timber schooners

glowing against the shaded woods -- it was a strange sight.

   On the West was a field battery. In front of the building

about 200 cadets drawn up in double line, their bands
playing 'God save the Queen,' present arms as we pass.

I gazed into their faces -- these young Americans ; slender,

active forms were clothed by the neatest and most un-
exceptionably fitting grey uniform ; scarce any ornament --
296  HENRY ACLAND  [1858-

a plain red trouser-stripe is all : a tail coat, not tunic, gives an
air of dress which is perfect-- no whisker nor moustache --
intellectual keen faces tell of work within -- curiosity is
imprinted on some -- on a. few a contemptuous smile. These
youths from seventeen to twenty-one seem a set of refined
men ready for any work, mental or bodily.

   It was well, perhaps, that Acland did not possess the
gift of the Highland seer. There was scarcely a lad on

parade that morning who, ere twelve months had sped,
was not to be found enrolled in one or other of the
great contending hosts that shook the continent. Lee

and Jackson and Longstreet, Sherman and Grant and
McLellan, were to find their ablest and boldest officers

among the youngsters who stood to attention as the
heir to the English throne passed down their ranks.
And the shadow of doom hung over many a bright

young face destined to lie beneath the sod at Gettysburg
or Chancellorsville or in the tangled depths of the
Wilderness.

   We dine alone and play at skittles or ten-pins by gaslight.
All smoke -- for I smoke when Lord St. Germains does --

that is when yielding to the Prince's malicious endeavours
the civil Earl falls a prey to the pressure. Officers join us,
and about 11.30, at his own desire, the polished Bishop
Mcllvaine, formerly, before he was Bishop of Ohio, the
accomplished Professor of Mental Philosophy in this Institu-

tion and come here to see us in his old haunts, joins the

game and so liberates me for bed.

   The journey was nearly over. At Boston, Acland

received an invitation from his friend Charles Norton
'to meet Lowell, Agassiz, Holmes, Longfellow, Emerson,
Shattuck, Wyman. General Bruce and Lord Hinchin-
broke came with me. I sat next to Agassiz.'

   In Boston, as elsewhere throughout the States, he
records the overwhelming kindness of his profession.
Wherever he went there was the utmost eagerness to

show him all those institutions and objects which could
i86o]  VISIT TO AMERICA  297

interest him as a medical man, as an educationalist, or
as a sanitary reformer. He left America laden with
the reports of every conceivable scientific society and

charitable institution. Nor had he been neglectful of
one of the prime objects of his journey, an inquiry into
the medical arrangements and the poor-law system of

our own American colonies. Notes on those and on
kindred subjects occupy many pages of his diary.
After a lapse of more than forty years they bear witness
to his keen observation and to his determination to
utilize every possible moment of what so many would

\have regarded as a season of well-earned relaxation

   On October 7 he wrote to the Prince Consort :

   I have endeavoured to add a mite to the work done by the
Prince's party (as I know you, Sir, would desire) by making

an effort to visit the principal persons in each place connected

with scientific and charitable institutions. It has been an

instructive, though, when added to our state life, often
laborious endeavour. But it pleased a large class of persons
not much touched by the state progress, and will be of service
in interchange of scientific work and knowledge.

   On October 20 the party left Boston, and by four
o'clock in the afternoon were once more on board the
Hero. Their programme, devised weeks before, had been
so scrupulously adhered to that there was scarcely an
hour's deviation from it. The voyage home was accom-
plished safely, but under unpleasant accompaniments
of gale and fog. The Hero was delayed several days
beyond its proper date -- a cause of no inconsiderable
alarm to the nation, and to the families of the members
of the Prince's suite. One who knew Mrs. Acland w^ell
refers to the serene reliance on Providence with which

   * Acland's leisure had also been employed in a series of sketches
filling six small books, besides a large portfolio. It is a family

tradition that an English lady who had been recommended to

consult him declined to do so on the ground that a man who so
abused a holiday could not be in the full possession of his senses.
298  HENRY ACLAND                             [1858-

she bore the suspense and anxiety as an instance of the
calm faith which never deserted her, and helped to
smooth the path of all who were brought within her
influence. The following letter to Sir Thomas Acland

shows the vicissitudes of the voyage :

My dearest Father,  H.M.S. Hero, November 15, i860.
                       (i a.m.) Lat. 49° N. Long. 63° W.

      I add this enclosure to my now ancient letter that you
may understand why we have been so long. We did not
make a very favourable passage even to the 25 W. Long.
We were ten days reaching that, having had a sharpish gale

south of Newfoundland, in which indeed we were in the night

in some anxiety, having had no sights for three days and

being, we knew, near the most dangerous place of those seas.
Table Island. We had had head winds moderately up to

the 25th and so continued till the 5th of November. An
easterly gale there meeting us drove us to the west of

Ireland, back again on our steps and down off the Bay of

Biscay.

   We are now in a south-west Gale which has suddenly
caught us and has involved us in a deep wet fog. But I fear

the wind is going to die away. We, of course, have hardly

any coal, having exhausted it ten days ago, and we are

getting short of provisions. There is not more than a
fortnight's -- and of course all fresh food is gone. However,

God be thanked that we are thus far. I shall write again

from Oxford. I write this midway between Ushant and the
Lizard. We have not yet of course sighted land, or light-

house, and have had no good sights for some days, except

a Polar latitude last night.

     Your most affectionate and dutiful son,

                              H. W. Acland.

   The chapter will find a fitting close in an extract
from a letter to Acland from Sir Charles Phipps dated

November 29, i860.

   I wish you could hear (though I believe your modesty

would make you prefer not to do so) the terms in which
i86o] VISIT TO AMERICA  299

Bruce speaks of your care of and attention to the Prince
during his most trying exertions, and of your general value
during the tour. I never had any doubt of your being that
rare creature in Zoology 'the right man in the right place,'

and I feel, as I know do the Queen and Prince also, how

much of loyalty and high feeling must have prompted you, at

such heavy sacrifice, to undertake so arduous and responsible

a duty.
   The success of the expedition has been beyond all expecta-

tion ; it may be reckoned as one of the most important and
valuable State measures of the present age, and whether we
look to the excitement and encouragement of loyalty and

affection to the mother country in Canada, or to the
soothing of prejudice and the increase of good feeling between

the United States and Great Britain, it seems to me im-

possible to overrate the importance of the good results which

the visit promises for the future.
                  CHAPTER XI

OWEN AND HUXLEY -- THE RADCLIFFE
     LIBRARY-- WORK AT OXFORD-- DEATH
     OF HIS FATHER

                                  i860- 1 87 1.

   The years that followed Acland's return from America
were among the busiest and happiest of his life. He
was in the prime of his intellectual and physical powers,
and his position as the head of the Oxford Medical
Faculty gave him a standing in the world of medicine
and of science which enhanced his influence in the
University. The Museum was now at length an accom-

phshed fact, and, to one with his genius and passion for
organization and arrangement, the task of getting it into
working order was the most delightful of labours. The
authorities of Christ Church had consented, largely
through the persistence of Liddell, to the removal, on
loan, of the Biological Collection, on which so much
money had been spent, from its quarters in the old
' Anatomical Museum ' to the new and spacious home
in the Parks. Acland's place as Lee's Reader had been
filled by Rolleston ; but the creation of the Linacre
Chair of Physiology, of which he was the first occupant,
had now given him the status of a University Professor,
and had conferred upon Acland a colleague whose
assistance in the carrying out of his plans, both inside
the Museum and without its walls, was invaluable.

   Of Rolleston no adequate memorial has ever been
published, but he was one of the most brilliant and
original figures which Oxford has ever produced. Ten
years after his death, Acland spoke of him in terms
which may fittingly be quoted here ^ :

                         ^ Oxford and Modem Medicine, p. 27.
OWEN AND HUXLEY  301

   It is needless to write to you on the character of that
remarkable man. He was filled with Biological conceptions,
and engaged in Biological work of the widest kind. To him
Man was the crown of the whole. But Man in his material

origin and descent; Man in his evolution, social, moral, and
intellectual ; Man of every time, character, aspiration ; Man
in his highest relations to his fellow men and to his God.

Nothing was amiss to him but meanness and indifference;
poetry, philosophy, history, shown in endless quotations from
Aristotle to George Eliot, from Homer to Tennyson, from
Herodotus to Macaulay. He equally revelled over the dry
bones of mummies, the dust of mounds, or the fragments of

pottery. He delighted in any sanitary details, in hospital
construction and administration. He had been with our sick

and wounded in the Crimean War, and there had acquired

the deepest sympathy with sickness and suffering on the
largest scale and in the least particulars. He had been an
Hospital Physician. He was a fierce denouncer of slavery,
a passionate supporter of the North in the contest of the

United States. His zeal for the Temperance cause in public
and private knew no bounds. He dredged for Invertebrates

in Torbay in his later years, as he was working on the
Hunterian series which he had inherited, with the enthusiasm

of a boy. With boundless sympathy for all that was noble in
intellect and in morals, among all sorts and conditions of men,
he was, when cut off from among us, beginning to inspire the
like temper of enthusiasm for science and morality and

benevolence in the men that were about him. Unconsciously

they, for the most part, drew in the reverent and devout spirit
that dominated his eager nature.

   Rolleston counted among his demonstrators and pupils

such men as Sir William Church, Mr. Pridgin Teale,

Professor Ray Lankester, Professor Moseley, Professor
Corfield, Professor Poulton, Dr. Hatchett Jackson,
Mr. Boyd Dav^kins, Dr. Sharkey, and Dr. Champneys.
The mere enumeration of these names is sufficient to

show the class of man for w^hose energies the Museum
and the new scientific teaching found scope. And

there were other names and other minds employed in
302  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

advancing the study of Natural Science, which may
be justly ranked, in their respective spheres, with
Rolleston. Mr, Story-Maskelyne the mineralogist, the
second Sir Benjamin Brodie the chemist, Professor
Westwood, the first curator of the Hope Entomological
Collection, Professor Clifton, Professor Prestwich, and

Professor Phillips, were among the first to be housed

with their respective apparatus in the new buildings
and to give a practical example of what could be done
in Oxford now that proper facihties had been provided
for the 'Advancement of Natural Knowledge.' The
presence of such a band of workers was compensation

for all the worries and vexations which had attended

the struggle for the Museum. With all of them Acland
was on terms of friendship, a strong spirit of esprit de

corps pervaded the whole body, and they in turn re-

cognized him as the man who had carried his point in
the teeth of so much opposition and apathy.

   But before serious study had begun within its walls
the Museum had been the scene of that conflict between

Bishop Samuel Wilberforce and Professor Huxley which
has been recounted so often and with so much variety of
detail. Early in July, i860, the British Association paid

its third visit to Oxford, and the Museum, structurally

complete but as yet only partially furnished, was chosen

as the most commodious and appropriate place for its

meetings. At one of the meetings of Section D, Pro-

fessor Owen had caused something like consternation

among the anatomists by attempting to re-establish
certain physical distinctions between the structure of
the brain in Man and in the higher Quadrumana which
were supposed to have been abandoned as untenable,
and in the process had crossed swords with Huxley.

The following afternoon had been appointed for a paper
by Dr. Draper which was expected to serve as a peg for
a discussion on Darwin's Origin ofSpecies, then the book
of the hour. It was rumoured that the Bishop of Oxford,

with whom Owen had been recently staying at Cuddes-
1871]                OWEN AND HUXLEY                  303

don, would join in the fray and ' smash Darwin.' The

crowd was so great that an adjournment was made from

the lecture-theatre to the great gallery, destined to be for

so many years the home of the Radchffe Library, but

then destitute of books or shelves and undivided by

partitions. Contrary to expectation Owen did not come,

and it was by mere chance at the last moment that

Huxley changed his plans and put in an appearance,

but the Bishop was there on the platform * resourceful,

pugnacious, impregnable, not a little arrogant.'

The scene that followed has been told and retold.

Full accounts of it will be found in Mr. Leonard Huxley's

Life of his father and in the lively pages of Mr.Tuckwell.

The biographer of Bishop Wilberforce leaves the matter

alone, on the ground of insufficient material, but he

attributes to some * Professor,' presumably Huxley, a
statement which the latter certainly never made -- ' that

he would rather be descended from an ape than a Bishop.'

Acland took no part in the discussion. Most unhappily,

as he thought, the amazing eloquence of the Bishop of

Oxford practically gave the question the aspect of an

attack on Revelation and Christianity, and he felt a deep

repugnance at anatomical and technical matters being

discussed in such a temper before a mixed audience in-

capable of drawing a correct conclusion on premises so

brought forward. The only result must be to undermine

their faith in the records of science and destroy their confi-

dence in the calmness and candour of scientific men.

Two years later the Association met at Cambridge,

and Owen returned to the charge in a paper on the

characters of Man and the Higher Monkeys. In the

interval Huxley had devoted much time and labour to

demonstrating the existence in the brains of the latter

of the structures whose presence Owen denied : chief

among these was the once famous Hippocampus

Minor                small eminence, shaped more or less hke
^
                '^,

               a
      Familiar to readers of The Waier-babies as the Hippopotamus
Major.
304  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

the sea-creature of that name, situate in the back-
ward prolongation of the central hollow of the brain.
In the discussion on Owen's paper he naturally took
a leading part, and was supported amongst others by
Rolleston and the late Sir William Flower, the latter
producing to the audience a series of anatomical pre-
parations which are now admitted to be conclusive
proof of Huxley's contention. Owen bitterly resented
the turn taken by the controversy, and expressed himself
in a manner which caused pain and regret to those who
were jealous for the good fame of the master of scientific

anatomy.

   Foremost among these was Acland, whose veneration

for Owen knew no bounds. He had been a silent
spectator at the meeting of the Section, and on the

following day he addressed a long letter to his old
teacher in the hope of producing a reply which would
extricate him from the false position into which he had

drifted.

   . . . Your lecture, not addressed to scientific anatomists,

but to the public, seemed to some at least to vindicate
your old description of the difference between Man and

the Quadrumana. I am aware that it did not really do
so, unless my attention failed me ; for I did not hear you

positively restate the debated structure to be peculiar to Man.

Still the general impression on the non-anatomical hearers
would be, I doubt not, that you adhered to the definition

which you had before given, and that therefore Mr. Huxley,
with Allen Thomson, Rolleston, Schroeder, Van der Kolk,
Vrolik, was in error, and his opposition to you more or less

groundless.
   This impression could not in fairness be left ; the contradic-

tion was necessarily reasserted, and the public were left in
a state of surprise amounting to bewilderment and of regret
exceeding great. You have doubtless gathered what is

the nature of my request to you. If you admit the general

truth of this recital, and if you accept me as no partisan in

such a question, will you consent to tell me, with leave to
1871] OWEN AND HUXLEY                                    305

publish your answer, in what respect Mr, Huxley has mis-

understood your opinion, or misinterpreted your words ; and

also in what particulars the discussion of these two years has

modified your original views as to the facts to be relied on as

definitive or differential of the human brain or of man

himself? I will not here repeat the urgent reasons that seem

to me to exist for doing this. Believe me, the continuance of

this feud over a simple fact will be injurious to the confidence
of the public in scientific men -- and justly so. The con-

sequences may be grievous in this country. A handle will be

given to those narrow-minded persons who suspect scientific

pursuits ; uncertainty as to what science does teach will

widely prevail. And in this particular instance thereis      in
                                                        is,
truth, nothing worth fighting about. The question          one

confessedly of pure zoology of the most technical kind. The

public confound this in misty manner with the essential
a
                a

                       is
nature of man. Whatever views, or hypotheses, or guesses,

Mr. Huxley, or you, or Mr. Darwin, or the Bishop of Oxford

may have as to the origin of man, you are all agreed that,

however he so became, he in some manner made in the
image of God-- spiritual being, clothed in this world with

the material conditions essential for his material existence

here. His material frame you account as the husk only of

the seed within, an earthly casket for the precious jewel of

his soul. Nothing can disturb this. If science could show

a great revolution in the belief concerning the introduction of

man on the planet, as has concerning the creation of the
it
                    it)
planet itself, still the essence of his nature (however may
perplex metaphysicians to explain will be that he capable
                                                 is
                                                     it

of being a God-fearing, God-loving being, and the only such

on the earth. However near to other material natures he

may seem to be, nothing can change, nor anything but him-

self degrade, his higher nature. No time will ever show us
the full mystery of life on the earth, any more than will
                                                       it

help us to understand with our reason the nature of the

Infinite. 'Him we feel after,                    haply we may find Him.'
is
           is

                                          is if
But we may perplex those who cannot give time to master

the material questions, we may make them fear where there

no fear, doubt where there no doubt, question where

there no answer, and break away from the only path of

                               X
3o6  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

peace into a black wilderness of conflict, interminable and
objectless.

   The letter from which this extract is taken assumed
the dimensions of a small pamphlet, and was received
by Owen in the spirit in which it was written. He
returned a prompt and friendly answer and a consider-
able correspondence ensued, but it was found impossible
to agree upon the terms of the proposed Eirenicon, and
the idea of publication was abandoned, much to the
relief of Professor Phillips, who insisted that Acland's

intervention could hardly fail to involve him in a stormy

controversy.
   No such exception, however, could be taken to the

following letter which he addressed a month or two
later to Archbishop Longley, his old Harrow head

master and constant friend.

   Your Grace will remember the Physiological collection at

Christ Church which you went over with me with much
kindly interest, and on which I lectured for thirteen years as
the Reader in Anatomy, and you will not, therefore, charge me

with presumption or haste in passing opinions on anatomical
questions ; nor is there any chance of your suspecting your

old pupil of want of due deference to you, if I express my

opinion to you on a grave subject at a critical moment.
   Two years ago at the British Association Professor Owen

alleged that there were three points of marked difference
between the Brains of Man and the Brains of Apes (viz. in
the posterior lobe, the posterior cornu, and the Hippo-

campus). Professor Huxley stated that these differences are
not so great as exist among the Apes themselves; and
thereby as a ground of distinction between Man and the Apes

they were valueless signs.
   This led to a serious dispute in which the Bishop of Oxford

charged Professor Huxley to the effect that his assertions

unwarranted by facts had an irreligious tendency.
   This was not sound argument. Either Owen was right in

his facts or Huxley was right in his. The tendencies are

nothing to the point whatever way we and the brutes were
1871]        OWEN AND HUXLEY                                                  307

made-- so He ordered 'God saw everything that He had
                  it
made, and behold       it,was very good to pervert facts
                                                 '
                                                   ;

so as to square with our temporary notions can lead to no

good.
   Since Bishop Colenso has written his work, every sort of

question affecting Genesis likely to be raised and discussed,is
among others the Origin of Man. The Bishop of Oxford

(whom cannot allude to without acknowledging his great
kindness to me, and the friendship of our fathers, which will,
I
          I
   hope, continue ever with the sons, however we may have to
                                             is
differ on such questions as this) committed to Mr. Owen's
statements. But these statements produce an incorrect impres-

sion. The differences Owen alleges to exist do not exist to

such degree as to separate Man from the Quadrumana to the
a

extent which his system would lead non-experts to suppose.
The Bishop of Oxford has therefore unintentionally given an

unfortunate turn to the debate by resting sentiments dear to

all men on at least questionable facts.

   You may be also some day unawares drawn into an
expression of opinion supporting Owen against Huxley,

Rolleston, and Lyell.              have therefore thought a duty
I                                                         is
                    '                                       it
                     a
                               it                                      I
                           Iowe to you and to devout men, to tell you what the state of

the case anatomically considered.

Owen accidentally mis-stated certain differences upon which

afterwards great issues were supposed to hang, and he does

not like to retract. The question                wholly exaggerated.
                                                 a

                                                   it is
                                                       I
Nothing of religious kind turns on -- wish people could

see this. Suppose no difference of material kind could be

found to exist between Man and the Apes, should we be

made brutes? or would brutes be men?             I        repeat, He who

made all has made all very good.'

pray you use your vast influence with the clergy to

hinder them from taking sides in scientific disputes, for which

they are not thoroughly grounded by thorough training and

by full practical knowledge. What the fear? Scientific
inquiry, ever shifting, can only attain to what To further

knowledge of the facts which He has ordained who made the
                                                 is

                                                                ?
                                                                           a

worlds and us with them. Does not the Spirit of God in the

hearts of men speak plain and sweet enough that we should

be contented thereby, without always fearing some catastrophe,

                                       X  2
3o8  HENRY ACLAND                                                                                               [1860-

if the material instrument through which He speaks is too

intimately understood ^ ?

   Dr. John Radcliffe, who died in 1714, was one of the
most munificent of the Founders whom the University

of Oxford is proud to commemorate. By his will, dated
the 13th of September in that year, were established the
Travelling Fellowships and the Library which bear his

name; and the Radcliffe Infirmary ^and Observatory
owe their existence to the discretion of his Trustees in

applying to charitable uses his residuary estate ^. The
sum of ^40,000 was left 'for the building a Library

in Oxford, and the purchasing the houses between

St. Mary's and the Schools in Cat Street where I intend

the Library to be built.' During the years that imme-

diately succeeded his death this bequest was gradually
carried into effect ; a mass of small tenements was swept
away, incidentally reducing the parishioners of St. Mary's
to the residents in a small portion of the High Street;

and the Camera with its noble dome was erected by
Gibbs in suggestive proximity to the buildings of the

Bodleian Library. The will contained provision for
the maintenance of the fabric, the salary of a Librarian,
and the annual purchase of books, which the increasing

   ^ How strongly Acland resented these attempts to agitate

scientific meetings with things having nothing to do with science
is shown by a conversation which the late Professor Hort had

with him two years later in Switzerland. * Acland declared him-
self, in view of the approaching meeting of the British Association
at Birmingham, where he had been chosen to preside over the

Physiological Section, as determined to put down at once with
a high hand every attempt to introduce arguments connected with
theology whether on the Christian or the un-Christian side, and if

the meeting will not support him he will leave the chair.' {Hort's
Life, vol. p. 41.) Fortunately the occasion did not arise.

      Erected in 1770.
     He bequeathed also the sum of ^5,000 for the building the
front of University College down to Logic Lane, answerable to

the front already built, and for the building the Master's Lodgings

therein and Chambers for my two Travailing Fellows.'
'^
              ii,

                                                                                                             '
1871] THE RADCLIFFE LIBRARY          309

value of the estate permitted the Trustees from time

to time largely to augment. The first Librarian, the

Rev. Francis Wise of Trinity, was appointed in 1750,
and for a period of sixty years the funds at the disposal
of the Trustees were devoted to the purchase of works

in general literature ; while valuable bequests, of which,

perhaps, the Kennicott Theological Collection is the

best known, were made by the successive Librarians
and by other benefactors. In 181 1 a regulation was
passed by which the purchase of books was confined to
works in Medicine and Natural History, and the Library
for the first time assumed the character of a Medical

and Scientific collection, the sums annually expended

on books ranging from ;^5oo to iJ"i,ooo^ In 1834 the

money thus expended was fixed at ^500 per annum,
but in 1841 the Trustees reduced the grant to ^^"200,
holding that ^500 was unnecessary on account of the
little interest the University took in scientific literature.

   In 1851, as we have seen, Acland was appointed
Librarian in succession to Dr. Kidd, the electors being

the same distinguished Board at whose hands he had

suffered such disappointment in connexion with the
Travelling Fellowship. Though the remuneration was

small the office was congenial in itself, and gave him

status as an University official in the struggle which was
then being waged for the Museum. There was much to
be done, if the Library was properly to fulfil its func-
tions. The hours of access were inconvenient to the

habits of the University, the absence of artificial light

caused it to be closed in the evening, while, owing to thea
denial of all means of warming the temperature of theit,
Library was for two-thirds of the academical year so
low that none but those endowed with Siberian fortitude
could use continuously as place of study. And the

diminution of the annual grant rendered the purchase

of expensive scientific books impossible^. All these
"^

                it
In one year as much as ;!^3,ooo was granted by the Trustees.

As Acland expressed  it,    The purchase of any one large work,

                         '
3IO  HENRY ACLAND                        [1860-

points were urged upon the Trustees by Acland in his

first annual report, for the moment without success.

But they were only palliatives, and his plans embraced
a much wider and more far-reaching scheme. An es-

sential part of the new Museum, whose cause he was

then pleading, was a great Scientific Library, and

Woodward's design provided the necessary accommo-

dation. No sooner had the foundations of the Museum

been laid than Acland set to work to persuade the

Trustees to transfer to the building in the Parks

the scientific works contained in the Radcliffe Library,

together with their headquarters' stafT in the shape
of the Librarian and his assistants. In the autumn

of  1856 he presented to the Trustees a  special report
in  which he ventured ' to recommend     measures ' by

which ' Dr. Radcliffe's Trustees may create an additional

debt of gratitude to his memory and most materially

benefit the Scientific and Literary interests of the

University.' ' Why,' he asked, * must the University

provide triplicates when the same books or many of

them are already in duplicate at the Bodleian and

Radcliffe Libraries? Cannot rather the Foundation

of Dr. Radchffe, his scientific books, annual grant,

librarian and sub-librarian be transferred, so that all

anomalies may be removed and a great good to
Dr. Radcliffe's profession and to science be effected ? '

    This report was largely circulated, and a memorial

in support of it was signed by thirteen Heads of

Houses, both Proctors, all the Science Teachers, by

a number of the Professors, including Pusey and Jowett,

by the Bodleian Librarian, and by a number of names

which carried weight in the University. There were

such as those of Gould on Zoology, or Bourgery on Anatomy, is
become a matter of serious consideration ; lest, on the one hand,
the Library be found wanting in some necessary Standard Work
of Reference, or lest, on the other, there be no funds left to
purchase the ordinary current scientific literature even of this

kingdom.'
iSyi] THE RADCLIFFE LIBRARY  311

some refusals, however, and Acland preserved among
his papers the letters in which the Warden of Merton

(Dr. Marsham), Professor John Conington, Professor
Heurtley and others recorded their dissent.

   The Trustees received the Report and the Memorial
with favour, but there was no need for hurry while the
Museum was still unfinished. There was the further
question of what was to be done with the Camera itself,
if shorn of its treasures and custodian. The Bodleian,

overcrowded and greatly expanded, was in crying need
of a Reading-room. Acland urged that the Radcliffe

Dome should be devoted to this purpose, and at his
instigation Woodward designed an arcade by which

the two buildings could be easily and gracefully united.

Such a scheme required consideration and elaboration
of detail, but in the year i860 the requisite agreement
was come to between the Trustees and the University
authorities. The Radcliffe Building was transferred to
the University as a loan 'to be used for a Reading-
room, or for any other purpose of the Bodleian
Library.' The scientific books were to be removed

to the apartments in the Museum, and it was provided

that the apartments in which they were kept should
have the words, ' Radcliffe Library ' placed over the
doors. In August, 1861, the books were removed from

beneath the dome in the Radcliffe Square to the
Museum. The removal occupied six days, but for-

tunately the weather was fine and not a book was

injured in the transit.
   The Library was housed in the long gallery which

occupies the upper storey of the west front of the
Museum, and there it was destined to remain for a

period of forty years ^ The gallery was divided into
two compartments of equal size, one, the northern,
appropriated as the Reading-room, the other as the
principal Book-room. They were separated by the

^ See pp. 2i5« and 493.
312  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

central or Tower-room, which was fitted up for the
reception of parcels and for the transaction of the
general business of the Library. In the minutiae of
cataloguing, arranging, storing, and planning, Acland
was in his element. The bookcases and working-

tables were made under his superintendence and to his
designs. They were a source of legitimate pride to

him, and he was never better pleased than when, as not

unfrequently happened, a request would come 'for
drawings of such models of convenience and good
looks, on a scale that would permit a cabinet-maker to

duplicate them.'
   In the regulations of the Library, which Acland drew

up, was a most important provision which allowed the
removal of books, for objects of study, to the court
containing the collections. He had always maintained
that the illustrative literature of Science was com-

paratively worthless when the books themselves could

not be brought near to the specimens they described.
Though the Library was under the sole charge of the
Radcliffe Librarian and his assistants, the Professors

who taught at the Museum were encouraged to enter

their respective wants in a book which it was the duty of
the Librarian to submit periodically to the Trustees, and
the hours of admission to the Library were especially
framed to permit the townspeople to consult the books,

the Reading-room being opened twice a week during
Term-time from seven to ten p.m. Acland attached
especial importance to this. * One of the best Botanists

in Oxford,' he told a Royal Commission in 1870, * is
one of the best makers of portmanteaus, and one of
our best electricians is a glazier whom I used to see
go past my window with his basket of tools in his

hands.'

   The Radcliffe Trustees who had taken so enlightened
a view of their responsibihties were five in number --
Earl Bathurst, Mr. William Dugdale, The Right Hon.
Sidney Herbert, The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, and
1871] THE RADCLIFFE LIBRARY                 313

the Right Hon. T. Sotheron-Estcourt. The chief

credit is due to Gladstone and Sidney Herbert, but
the latter did not live to see the transfer of the Library
carried out, and Acland had the melancholy duty of
addressing his Report to ' but four out of the five who

have heartily encouraged every sound endeavour to
promote the efficiency of the Radcliffe Trust.'

   Sidney Herbert's place was taken by the Duke of
Marlborough, and one of the first actions of the recon-

stituted body was to raise the annual grant for books

to i^5oo. Even this sum barely sufficed to keep pace
with the output of costly works on Science and Natural

History. It was quite unequal to the purchase of
periodical literature, English and foreign, or of the
transactions of the various learned societies ; and there

seemed no possibility of making up the leeway in this
department due to years of ill-judged parsimony. But
Acland succeeded in coming to an agreement with the
Rev. H, O. Coxe, who had recently become Bodley's
Librarian, by which a large number of scientific and

medical periodicals and transactions were transferred
as they were received, under the Copyright Act or

otherwise, from the Bodleian to the Radcliffe Library.
Thus, through the hberal and judicious conduct of

these two great institutions, but largely through the
tact and persistence of Acland, who was now, as Regius
Professor of Medicine, a Curator of the Bodleian, the

scattered scientific resources of the University w^ere at

last gathered under one roof, and a great working
library was established in the very midst of workshops,
laboratories and lecture-rooms, ' used not only by a few

veteran experts, but also by young and earnest students,
each of whom is thus brought into contact, from his
earliest steps, with the history and progress of the
whole domain of natural knowledge ^'

   On one point, the architectural junction between the

^ Report to the Radcliflfe Trustees, 1871.
314  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

Bodleian and the Radcliffe Dome, Acland was unable to
make converts. The great Oxford Library remained

to his death, as it remains still, separated from its

Reading-room by a wide and open space and a double
flight of steps, nor is it likely that Mr. Woodward's
design or anything approaching it will be the means of

solving the difficulty^. The expenses of maintaining
the fabric of the Camera still rested on the Trustees,

and Acland was instrumental in carrying out the various

plans for warming and lighting the building which have
rendered it so commodious a place of study. He was
also successful in a suggestion to the Trustees that
grants should be made from time to time out of their
funds to enable young medical students of promise to
pursue a short course of study at Oxford ; and the
Trustees were persuaded in the same way to contribute

to advanced scientific investigations in the laboratories
of the medical department of the Museum. The late
Mr. C. C. Pode and Professor Ray Lankester were in

this way encouraged in their researches into the pro-
cesses of Fermentation and Putrefaction.

   But Acland's satisfaction with the progress of the
Science departments at Oxford was marred by one
great disappointment. He had always looked upon
the ultimate removal of a portion of the Botanical
Gardens and Collections to the neighbourhood of the

Museum as essential to 'methodic display and study
of the Kosmos,' and he declared that * to sever the

extinct from the existing Flora, was as hateful as to

sever the living from the extinct animals, or the Palae-

ontological from the recent Anatomical and Physio-
logical series.' He disclaimed all desire of interfering
with the site or the associations of the beautiful old

Garden by the Cherwell, but he pleaded that the

   ^ Acland went so far as to state that could he and Panizzi

have foreseen that the Reading-room would be for ever separated
by a wide street from the main Library, the memorial for the
union of the two institutions would never have been presented.
iSyi] VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE          315

buildings in which the Dried Collections and other

Botanical specimens were contained might be rebuilt,
and the formal plots relaid, on some of the eight acres
in the Parks which had been secured for the ultimate

expansion of the Museum. There also it would be

possible to construct Laboratories and to develop a new

Botanical Garden which might vie with Edinburgh or
Kew. Acland was supported in this view by Sir William
Hooker, by Professor Daubeny, and his successor in
the Chair of Botan}', Professor Lawson, and by Pro-
fessor Phillips, the Keeper of the Museum, but the
plan found little favour in Oxford even among the
ranks of the Progressives. In 1876 it was finally
removed from the sphere of practical politics by the
resolution of Convocation to expend a large sum in
erecting new Laboratories and Houses in the old
Botanical Garden. Acland strove with all the resources

at his command to recall the decision, but without

effect. To the end of his days he bemoaned the

\perversity of those who, as he considered, had marred

the unity of a great design
   In February, 1861, the death in a railway accident of

Dr. Bal}'', the Queen's Physician Extraordinary, rendered
it possible for a moment that the overtures of 1858
might be renewed. However Mr. (afterwards Sir
Wilham) Jenner succeeded to the post so sadly vacated,
and the question of leaving his Oxford work was never

again taken into serious consideration by Acland,
though in 1863 he received the appointment of Honorary
Physician to the Prince of Wales.

   His Royal Highness was now (1861) m statu pupillari
at Trinity College, Cambridge, with a set of rooms

reserved for his use in the Master's Lodge, but with
a household and establishment at Madingley Hall.
Here Acland was invited to pay the visit described in
the following letter.

* See Oxford and Modem Medicine.
3i6  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

My dearest Father,

      You will be surprised at my date, and think me nearly
as locomotive as yourself. The Prince asked me to come
and spend a Sunday with him, and you will believe I was

nothing loth.

   This is a charming place -- an old country house four miles
from Cambridge --with large grounds, and capital stables ;
halls -- great drawing-rooms -- billiard-table and the para-
phernalia of an ancient Country-Gentleman's house -- rather
disorderly-- and not beautiful.

   I came yesterday evening in time for dinner and for a little
walk before. I wish you could have seen my 'Young

Master ' doing the honours ; taking me to my room up the

back stairs, and seeing that all I wanted or could want was
there -- and the same at bedtime. He is certainly made for

the kindly courtesies of life ^

   After breakfast to-day we were at morning church -- having

fed the horses with cut carrots and he having been followed
about the place by his own horse -- then we went into

Cambridge to dine in Trinity hall before Chapel^ afterwards
to Chapel. He drove me in a phaeton in and back.

   To have seen Cambridge for the first time in such a way
was remarkable, and is never to be forgotten. I called on

Sidgwick, but he was unwell, and of course on the Master of
Trinity, Whewell. On the whole it is long since I have seen
a day of such interest, in its way like the first entrance to
Rome. It seemed so strange to visit at my age, and many
years now a Professor at Oxford, the College and haunts of

Newton, Barrow, and Bacon.

  ^ It was on an earlier occasion, during the Prince's Oxford resi-
dence, that Acland described how ' the Prince discovered I could
not play whist and therefore Gen. Bruce was made my partner,

and the evening passed in frantic endeavours to instruct me, and
in the most exuberant merriment on the part of all four.' The
only other time when Acland is known to have played cards
was at Brantwood in 1893, on his last visit to Ruskin, and as the

two sages talked the whole time de omni scibili and showed one
another their hands for purposes of comparison and advice, the
game was scarcely up to the standard of the late Mrs. Martha

Battle.
iSyi]  WORK AT OXFORD  317

   The Prince likes Oxford best ^-- which you will forgive
to him -- but he is very happy here.

                   Ever your most affectionate and dutiful son,
                                                           H. W. ACLAND.

   In the following December the whole nation was
thrown into mourning and unfeigned sorrow by the
death of Prince Consort. Acland's feelings of admiration
and affection for the husband of his Sovereign have

already been described in his own words, and the
following letter from a leading member of the Royal
Household found an echo in his heart.

   You are one of these, my dear Acland, who are capable of
appreciating my beloved Master, for I think none but the
good could estimate all his goodness. He was indeed

a wonderful being, for seldom do you find in one person both

head and heart so superior to his fellow-creatures. I never

saw any one at all equal to him, my affection for him was
greater than for the members of my own family, and the blank

can never be even partially filled up ^

   It was with no little awe that he felt how narrowly

he had missed a terrible responsibility. Some most

interesting letters from Stanley, too intimate for publica-

tion, tended if possible to heighten his admiration for
the manner in which 'sorrow's crown of sorrows' was

borne by the Queen. Canon Stanle}', as he then was,
had been chosen to accompany the Prince of Wales in
his tour to Palestine and the East, which was carried

out in the following year. His letters form an interesting
record of that journey, while the Prince on his return
described to Acland many of the incidents in an expedi-
tion which differed so widely from the one they had
undertaken together. A gloom, however, was thrown

   ^ It ought to be added that the Prince in issuing his invitation
had written, ' I am glad to say that I like Cambridge, but do not
like making any comparison with my late University.'

   2 Many years afterwards (in 1875) Acland submitted to the
Queen his recollections of a talk with the Prince Consort, which
are embodied in Sir Theodore Martin's Life^ vol. iv, p. 13.
3i8  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

over the whole party by the death of General Bruce,
who had been unable to shake off a fever which he had
contracted in Syria. The regard which Acland had
formed for him at Oxford and during their travels in

America had been increased by subsequent inter-
course, and he shared in the sorrow which pervaded
the Household from the Prince downwards.

   Acland's holidays were variously spent during these
years. The strain of the Oxford work, and the impos-
sibihty of what he called 'shortening sail,' made him
seize what opportunities presented themselves of obtain-

ing complete change as far away as possible from the
scene of his labours. Often the opportunity did not

coincide with the children's holidays, and he was unable
to join Mrs. Acland at the sea or down in the west,

where she made the head quarters for the family. During
the summer of 1861 the Duke of Marlborough placed
at their disposal a house in Blenheim Park, Home
Lodge. It was in the early days of the Volunteer

movement, and Acland had been one of the first members
of the University corps ^. During this season of relaxa-
tion he attached himself to the Woodstock Company,

and, whenever he could find the time, drilled with them
' to the great delectation of body and mind ' ; and he
records with satisfaction * a good drill with skirmishing
and blank cartridge.'

   In 1862 he took his wife over to Switzerland, where

they fell in with the late Professor Hort, who has
recorded his impressions of the pair in language that

  ^ His eldest brother was one of the pioneers of Volunteering in
Devonshire and took an intense and practical interest in all military
matters. The following extract from a letter from Henry Acland to
his wife is illustrative of this thoroughness : 'After various scrim-
mages we elected for Dunkerry shooting, Tom Taylor, Charlie, Gib,
and myself on ponies,Tom walking without his coat, carrying a huge
bough like Polyphemus and a knapsack of drawing-materials. He
seemed to fancy we were all an army and Dunkerry an enemy,

and there were orders and counter-orders that might have taken

Badajoz.'
1871]  WORK AT OXFORD                319

deserves quotation : ' I have never seen a more perfect

union of deep and fervent Cliristian feeling with un-

flinching love and desire of truth on all possible subjects
than in Acland; whatever she said was in perfect

keeping.' And in the last days of the year he went

down to Plymouth to place his sailor son on the

Marlborough.

   1864 was an eventful year. In April he was dis-
patched to Utrecht by the University to examine the
pathological collection of Van der Kolk with a view

to its purchase. On his advice the collection was

secured for Oxford, and such a practical demonstration

of liberality towards scientific teaching was most grati-

fying to him. In July he paid a short but deeply

interesting visit in Ireland to his friend Dr. Stokes, the

most distinguished figure amongst Irish physicians, and

a man for whom on private as well as professional

grounds Acland entertained the highest regard. Part

of the time was devoted to an expedition to the coast
of Galway. 'Never have I spent,' he wrote, 'three
                                     ddisicvuidsesdionb}--^ ofpuenn---aiarn--d
more interesting  da^^s, each duly
swimming -- dogs  -- antiquities --

affectionate hospitality.'

Both his host and Miss Stokes were enthusiastic

archaeologists, but Acland's chief interest in the early

Irish monuments was derived from the light which

they seemed to cast on Irish histor}^ Goldwin Smith's
recently published 'Manual' on that subject had just

fallen into his hands, and he was brimful, as his letters

to Mrs. Acland show, of the ideas which it suggested.
In the Ireland of the past and of the present thus

unfolded before him he found a clue to much that had

surprised him in the conduct of some of his Irish

colleagues on the Medical Council, whose proceedings

had not altogether contributed to the harmony of that
body. The Irish, he declared, * have been hardly used.'
They 'have not their due, neither their due of right,

nor the due of their character, energ}', and attainments.
320                         HENRY ACLAND                              [1860-

I understand Woodward and Dean as I never did

before.'

   The following extract from another letter is given as
an illustration of the wayside talks in which Acland

took such pleasure, and throws a not unimportant side-
light on his width of sympathy. He had come across
an Irishman of the middle-class, self-made and a Roman

Catholic, a flour contractor from Kilrush. The talk had
begun about the care of the poor in the Irish work-

houses, and it drifted on to many matters.

I asked him some questions about the celibacy of the

Priests. He spoke of this, and absolutely and wholly contra-

dicted the objections and imputations raised among us. He

gave an instance. * Now,' he said, ' at Kilkee how is it ?
Your clergyman has ten children, and must he not have his
thoughts in them -- and justly? Ours has none, and has no

earthly object he be an equally good man) but his Flock.'
He would not hear either of the objections we make that they
     a is
are ignorant of domestic relations. 'Why,' said he, 'their
                     ? (if
life spent in watching over them.'                             was curious to hear
                            I
                                I

                                                       :

                                                It

                                                                         ;
                                                                                    :

                                                                  I

                                                                                 is '
him, an illiterate man, describe his son -- his eldest.                                He
was studious lad --which was very nice he was always
upon his books -- which don't understand so once went to
                                          said " Well, Tom, what
his  room     atthbisedti"mem, eaannding  his books and his prizes.                    the
end   of all
                                                                                     And
so he said (for he thought what guessed) " Well, father,
                                          I
                                                 I

                                                                         :
                                                                                   :

                                                                  I
                                                                      I

                                                                             I
do not know what to think, but when do know I'll acquaint
you." And so not long after he came and said " have been

thinking could prepare for the Priesthood." And so said,
" Now, Tom, had rather my son had no cap to his head nor
     I
          I

shoes to      his feet      and scarce    "a--raygoutoknhoisw  back,  and Vv^alked
after the     poorest                                           how   this denotes
                            of donkeys
the lowest Irishmen -- " than that he should be priest unless in
                                                               Ia
his heart he satisfied he can wholly renounce the world and
give his entire heart to God." And he said, " think can."
a                                                                     I

                    is
                                      is

                                                            a
And now you see he Priest of the next Parish and great
                                                                      a

pleasure to me and as good son as can be. He                          is             fine-
                                                                          a

looking fellow -- and sings beautifully -- and he isn't above

glass of punch after dinner or anything in quiet jovial
                                                               a
iSyi] WORK AT OXFORD                                                                              321

way, which I like in him, though I am a teetotaller for twenty-
four years ; but I like him to be free to serve God, and to be

pleasing to his fellow creatures in such way as he feels
consistent thereto.'

   In the autumn of the same year he had a severe
attack of scarlet fever. The malady was a name of dread
in the Acland family: for the first Mrs. T. D. Acland

had died from it in 1850, and her husband and children
had been stricken by it at the same time. Fortunately
skilful nursing and a constitution which was far stronger

than he could ever be brought to admit pulled him

through without any permanent ill-consequence, though
there was a period of painful suspense before the crisis
of the fever was past. The following letter from Ruskin
is an indication of the anxiety which his illness had

caused among his friends :

   It is my fixed opinion that if you had come to see me long

ago you would not have had scarlet fever now and that you

ought to have come and looked after me. For you know

well enough that there are very few people who have any

influence over me at all, and it seems to me much more the

duty of those who have, to use it when I am in need of them
than to cure indifferent people of stomach-aches and colds in
the head ! . . . No man's profession ought ever to occupy

him so as to render it impossible for him to look after his

friends -- I don't say this angrily but steadily and dogmatically.
I know you did what you thought right, and couldn't but do

    and say was wrong and you've got scarlet fever for it.
a it,

        It I

                       a it

                                It

                                                                   a
                                                                                               a
   In the summer of 1865 Acland, accompanied by
his second son, Harry, went on tour to Switzerland

with Dean Liddell.  was the year of the great

Matterhorn disaster and was destined to be an unlucky

hoHday for the Oxford party, for they had scarcely

settled down at Engelberg when the Dean slipped on

moss-covered stone as he was descending steep

mountain-path, and broke the small bone in his left

leg. was week before he could be moved, and the

                    Y
322  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

journey back had to be made by very easy stages,
Acland found himself once more in medical attendance

on his friend, and was able to alleviate his sufferings

and to make the necessary travelling arrangements, and
he was the means, of procuring for the Dean at Paris
the best professional assistance, in the person of
M. Nelaton, surgeon to the Emperor. The lost holiday
was, however, more than compensated for by a flying
tour to Loch Rannoch in company with Mrs. Acland.

   In the Easter of the next year he made a short
holiday trip to Belgium with two of the elder boys,
Harry and Theodore^ and the following letter from
Waterloo is interesting in many respects. The sketch
alluded to, * Waterloo from the French hnes,' was after-

wards completed and occupied a prominent position in

the dining-room at Broad Street.

   We have had a charming day, barring the usual fact that

we got too tired, as seems to me with very little. But certainly

the Rugby and Winchester ' men ' cannot do more than I. We
are settled very nicely at the foot of the Belgian Lion, where
is the niece of Sergeant- Major Cotton, long dead. She

married a Belgian carpenter, M. Vera Lewek. They have

built an inn on the ground. Hotel du Musee, a really nice

clean little country inn, and she a very pleasant modest good

person. We have just had evening service all together
-- with three maids and the children, including the Baby, 'who

might as well be present.' One of the party came from near
Bow Common, and knows Arthur's^ labours and respects

him much. Altogether the excitement of Waterloo was too
much for me. I could not sleep for charges, and wounds,
and horrors of every description, and saw the whole scene of
the i8th of June half the night thro'.

   To-day we had the great pleasure of a letter from you
-- our first. It came in at breakfast forwarded from Brussels,

written from Mrs. Vizard's. I have bought you a 3^?. jug as

   ^ The Rev. A. B. Cotton, Mrs. Acland's youngest brother,
and incumbent of St. Paul's, the last of the ten churches which
Mr. William Cotton built in the East End.
i87i] A VISIT TO WATERLOO  323

a memorial. Well, after breakfast, we read the Service and

then walked three miles to Waterloo Church to see the
monuments to officers and men, and home to dinner; then

walked over to Belle Alliance and round by Hougoumont

home, reading Keble's most appropriate hymn for the day,
appropriate as the lesson to me of this place is duty,

abnegation of self, and of the world.
   We keep to our plan of going to Namur to-morrow, to

Ghent Wednesday, and go to Antwerp Friday. But I can
get no tidings of a Meuse steamer to Liege. I got to-day

after dinner a slight notion of the field of battle in a sketch,
just to see the effect at sunset, the end of the engagement.
To-morrow I shall try to work it in, if it is a fine day and

I am up early, but it is not a subject for rapid sketching, the

ground being altogether too delicate. It would require several
evenings. But I thoroughly understand it. It is a stupen-
dous instance of heroism, never in the annals of Man sur-

\passed. I am very glad our Sunday was here It altogether

befitted the temper in which one should visit such a scene.

I am not, however, disposed to make sermons to-night,
so I shall refrain. I could write you a long one. I thought
to-day whether I had not better give up my Oxford life and

become Leopold's curate for the rest of my days --like an old

knight who takes to the cloister. But Keble's hymn for
to-day seems to forbid that. Yet how hard is my Oxford life

become when taken into conjunction with a susceptible nature.

But of this more hereafter. Do read Carlyle's address.

   In 1866 a flying visit to Plymouth, where his sailor

son v^as on board the Ocean, brought up a flood
of old memories, which he embodied in a letter to
Mrs. Acland :

   I will do as yesterday, write before I go out. I almost
forget exactly what I told you yesterday. I did so much
that it would be a volume to tell you all. I have not had

   ^ Acland does not seem to have remembered that the battle
itself was on a Sunday, when --

                  * He who sought but Duty's iron crown,
                   On that loud Sabbath smote the spoiler down.'

                                          Y2
324  HENRY ACLAND                     [1860-

a more interesting fifteen hours for many years. I started,

I told you, before 8 to go on board the Osborne, saw Admiral

Seymour and arranged with him to join their inspection of
ships at 10,30, went ashore and got breakfast. It was a wet

morning. I went on board the Cambridge, the gunnery ship,
where all men, not officers, are drilled. It was pouring with
rain. I went down into the Captain's cabin against my wish,

and on entering was accosted in the most hearty manner by

an old Pembroke messmate, Captain Ewart, who has entire

charge of the ship at exercise. There was a letter from

Seymour to me to say that they would just inspect the boys^

ship and I should go there -- to the Impregnable. I set off

thither and found Captain Tremlett, the head of that depart-

ment in the service, with all his officers waiting for the

Admiralty. He was very courteous and I was dripping.

Presently there was a signal ' Inspection postponed till fine

weather.' Accordingly the Captain most kindly took me alone,

and for an hour and a half explained the whole system of boys'

training for the service, mainly drawn up by himself and now

superintended by him in the ships stationed at the several

harbours, for the same purposes. I conversed very fully

with the able Captain and Instructor, Mr. Ridley. Captain

Tremlett then took me in his gig to the Cambridge again

to learn if Captain Ewart had any new orders. He had
not, but I was introduced to the surgeon. Dr. Forbes, who

happened through Charles Courtenay to know all about me

(oddly enough), and with them we had much discussion on

the sanitary care of ships. Ewart asked me to dine at 7.30,

which I conditionally accepted. He is a great artist and

did the Pembroke off Cape Matapan in my big notebook.

Thence to the Ocean to arrange with Willy to meet me on
shore at 6 -- and to call on Captain
                                      . He is a nice

man, at this moment engaged to Miss   , but broken off
by the parents, solely on ground of funds -- that is like some
other people's history. I had half an hour's talk with him, I

quite hope to his comfort, poor man. I then went to Captain

Mayne's ship and examined his arrangements, gave the

Impregnable boat's crew (boys) a shilling apiece and explained

to them the P. O. Savings Bank to their great amusement,

as they had said they should spend their shilling in
1871]           AT PLYMOUTH                                   325

'apples and nuts/ which, I remarked, being what monkeys
would do, I could never have guessed. Mayne showed
me a good deal of interest, spectroscope of Gassiot's and all

manner of arrangements. They have six life-boats in the
Nassau and one steam-cutter. He proposed to take me

to the IVivern, Captain Burgoyne ', the great Cupola ship.

On reaching her there was, as usual, a friend. The first
'I 'Ilieutenant looked very hard at me, and said, ' I think, Sir, you
were on the Satellite'^.'                  was,' I said.  am the Httle

midshipman,     Renshaw          '    and  so he took me away then and
                                   ;

explained the cupola, guns, and all the wonderful and most

perfect apparatus of the kind in existence.

   By this time I was very wet, and must say very tired --it was
four, and I had no luncheon. I had a glass of wine and biscuit
in the Nassau, and being so wet as I could be no worse, I
thought I would go to the Osborne to thank Seymour and call

on Sir Alexander Milne, who was Admiral on the American
Station when I was there, and occasionally very kind and
friendly to me. So I went for this formal purpose, dripping
as I was, the Osborne having steamed out of harbour into

Barn Pool. The weather was most horrible ; however, I got

there. They were amused to the last degree at my zeal and

propriety, and wanted to dress me and to stop to dinner.

But I saw they were very busy with hundreds of papers, and
said I would go ashore and dress. It happened that the
flag-ship's boat was going to Mount Wise. I went in her,

got home at 6.30, found Willy waiting for me, sent him to tea

with Captain Ewart without me, had a cup of tea quietly,

dressed, got off to Barn Pool by 7.30 exactly, and sat at
dinner between an old friend, young Pakington (who was at
school with John Barton at Burn's), and Captain Nott of the
Implacable (training-ship for boys) -- opposite Mayne and

Mr. Sheridan, a friend of Arthur's, who knew me when I was

at work at Bullock's ', and insisted on describing my coming

    ^ Who subsequently went down in the ill-fated Captain, Sep. 7,

1871.

   * The ship on which Acland had obtained a passage to Italy

in  '18T3h6e,  see p. 45 supra.
                apothecary with
                                 whom      Acland had worked  in his St.

George's days.
326              HENRY ACLAND                                              [1860-

up out of Bullock's cellar, in which some of my work had to be

done.

   It was an official dinner, but very pleasant ; and looking
back on the whole day I seem to have acquired a per-
ception of the service such as I had never had. Of course
I could not have understood it all unless before familiar with

    but happened that saw the training system for boySy
the gunnery system for men -- the newest surveying-ship, and
I it,
the best cupola and guns in the world perhaps, in the Wivern,
        a
with full opportunity of questioning about and examining into
            is it
every one.       day to be remembered. Willy enjoyed
                   is It

                               is
                                       a

                                 aI

                                                        a
his evening with Ewart, who was very kind, and he slept here.

am astonished at his good sense.                                 suppose he got from
                                                           a               a

                                                              I              it
you. There impressed on me thankful conviction of the                                  is
great pains now taken to train our young sailors of all classes

in wise and right way, conviction that man has in the            aa
Navy at least as good chance of useful and happy and
                                                           a

Christian life as in any other walk, and real pleasure in

seeing so much energy, morality, and brightness in service

which essential to England, has been her pride, and

essential to her very existence.

   In 1867 his brother the Rev. Leopold Acland accom-
panied him in an expedition to the Paris Exhibition
and through the towns and churches of Brittany. In

1868 the visit of the British Medical Association to

Oxford kept him tied to English soil, but in 1869 he
accompanied his daughter to Wildbad. The state of her

health compeUing him to leave her to finish the treat-

ment, he returned home, attendance on the Prince and
               '

                                         in
Princess of Wales, w^ho had been out there with their

children. Little Prince                                    Edward said to  me to-day,
" Why does not your wife                                   come to you "   suppose he
                                                                 ?

                                                                     I

had heard the Prince or some one say so.'

In 1872 he paid,                    company with Mrs. Acland, the
               of

                          ^

                                in
long-deferred visit to Norway; some of Mrs. Acland's

letters describing their experiences have already ap-

peared in print

^    A sketch  the Life and Character of Sarah Acland, p. 48 et seq.
iSyi]  HOLIDAYS  327

   It was on one of these occasions that he was brought
into close connexion with Sir James Paget and his

family.

   Paget (he wrote to his wife) is becoming one of the most
important people in the place; his large family make him

conspicuous, his character and their admirable conduct make

them beloved. I see how much Paget's resolute family life
has done for them and how much more I might have done

for our boys. Paget tells me he never but twice forgot any

engagement. Three qualities lie at the root of his character --

regular industry, absolute religious and domestic content-

ment, inflexible purpose. I think on the whole his character
is one of the most firm I have known -- and while it is to me

a great example it almost makes me despair.

   Nor was this a solitary expression of Acland's ad-

miration for the great surgeon. ' Paget's conduct,' he

wrote after a severe operation on a dear friend at which
he had been present, 'and the conduct of his pupils
yesterday was just heavenly, and gave me a new love
of my professional duties and my profession. And
Paget himself is in work almost divine in his tender-

ness, calmness, and precision.'
   During his many absences from home Acland was

now as always a voluminous correspondent. The letter-

writing was sometimes carried on under conditions of

considerable difficulty. A thumbnail pen-and-ink sketch

represents him on one occasion seated on his hatbox in
the middle of a railway platform 'like an oasis in a

desert.'

   . . . Some of the worthies are evidently half astonished,

half offended at my imperturbability. We shall never, I

should think, reach Pitlochrie or Pit -- anywhere. But you
must direct Blair Atholl. A gawky girl has nearly upset my
ink, tho' tons on tons of luggage have passed within an inch

of my toes without touching me.

  A few more extracts from Acland's letters to his

wife will give some faint idea of the variety of his
328                  HENRY ACLAND                                                                                                         [1860-

occupations and interests during these years. In Novem-

ber, 1865, he was invited to Cambridge to inspect the
Medical Examination on behalf of the General Medical
Council, and stayed with Whewell at the Lodge.

' The Master of Trinity has just shown me to my bedroom
thro' long passages, and when I got to the room I exclaimed,
"Why, this must have been
       "                  I  the Prince  of Wales's sitting-
room      And so it was.     have been   telling the Master
      !

how in the year 1834 one of my great objects in life was that

I might see Whewell, the author of the Bridgwater treatise,
which I had read, and of whom Thomas Fisher ' had written

so much. Dr. Whewell is unaltered wholly, so handsome,

so kind, so charming. These strong men when pleasant are

of all men the most pleasant. He is going to read Harvey^

for me to-morrow. . .  . When he offered me some                                                                                          :  a"leFoart
                       water, he, taking the ale, said
10.30 p.m. and I took
my own part I think that when one takes water so much of the

system is poorly occupied." What would Sir W. Trevelyan
say ? '-- Acland adds in a postscript -- ' I took some ale, and am
certainly more comfortable '-- together with Whewell's good-

night words, * Chapel is at 7 a.m., you can go if you like.
I don't.'

   Acland was sometimes the recipient of strange con-
fidences and strange compliments.

   A Birmingham merchant in the train told me I was a sui

generis (!), a mixture of the intellectual and the practical. That

when I ' handled a bone ' at the Museum before the Archi-

tectural Societies he discovered this and settled that it would
make him perfect having been a practical man all his life,
he were to come to Oxford now his fortune made
2^
                  :

                                    if,
                                                       it

                                                                     is

                                                                                                                                       !
   Writing  from Concanneau, Brittany, whither as we
            he had wandered with his brother in 1867,
have seen
he says

We had come to our room after dinner at 7.30 meaning to

     His old tutor.  Oration, which  fell to Acland's lot to deliver
      The Harveian

that year.
1871] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE  329

write long letters, when M. Guithon, the owner of the
Aquarium, comes to see us and has now left us at 11 o'clock.
Originally the son of a fisherman, he has made the most
original and extensive Vivarium. He lives by it. He has
15,000 lobsters and crawfish now in his tanks and all kinds of
fishes. They know him, and dozens of turbots came when he
clapped his hands, some 15 lb. in weight.

   Now it is from an early meeting of the Medical
Council :

   Hard at it ! We breakfasted at 8, and Dr. Christison and

I were at work here at 10. It is now 2, and the afternoon

sitting is beginning and will continue for four hours yet.
I doubt whether I shall get to the Ebringtons' till 9. I have
to be at the House of Lords at 6, and am going to the House
\of Commons afterwards
                        To-morrow it will be the same.

I enjoyed my dear visit to Broome very much and derived

great instruction. I am amazed at the intellectual activity

of such men as Christison, Sir David Brewster, and Sir

Benjamin.

   The following letter discloses another typical day of
a different kind :

                                                                         June 28, 1864.

   I reached Rugby at 4.30, went straight to the Temples',
where I saw Jacob Ley getting into a fly : was welcomed by
him and asked to tea. I went off. It was pouring wet.
I came to the George Hotel, put on my Swiss boots and

American mackintosh and walked off to the sewage-tanks
and filtering-beds a mile off. Examined them, and then
a mile to the farm where the sewage is distributed ; went to
the farmer who farms the land and went into the whole
question. Back again to the George by 8, very wet and
very hot, ' presbyterian ' running down me. Had some

   ^ Acland's multiplicity of engagements was sometimes produc-
tive of confusion. ' I remember,' writes a lady, ' my mother once
asking him if he could come to our house in Oxford on a particular

afternoon. He pulled out his engagement-book, looked at it
gravely and said, " on that afternoon I've got to be at the House
of Lords-- the College of Physicians-- and Broad Street." *
330  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

mutton-chops and a glass of wine, and changed. Off to
Temple 8.30 to 9.30. Then to Mr. Campbell, the great

gentleman farmer who has superintended the sewage experi-

ments with Dr. Gilbert and Mr. Lawes, whence I have come

home now at 11. So farewell. This examination of Rugby

has been most satisfactory for my sewage business, giving

me information I could not have obtained in any other

manner.

   And the following extract gives a glimpse of yet
another side of his labours :

                                                       Oxford, Feb. 14, 1868.

  . . . All well this morning and nothing particular, but I am
absolutely devoured by public work. A long memorial of

several foolscap pages on the Quarantine Laws for the
Government, to be sent directly, and an opinion given on it ;
and an opinion as to the arrangements of the Chairs of
Zoology and Comparative Anatomy at Dublin, to be sent by
return of post.

   There is a frequent mention of Gladstone and the
famous breakfast parties which kept up a flavour of
the early Victorian days to so late a period in the

century.

                                                                          May 30, 1867.

   I had a most pleasant breakfast -- Count Strelezcki, Lord
Lyttelton, Mr. Lecky (who is a very nice person, modest
and quiet), Lord Houghton, the Dean of Ch. Ch., and
Willy, It was so funny to see the Dean looking at Gladstone ;

you can see he is astonished by him without loving him, and
it is curious also to see how Mrs. Gladstone and the children

idolize him.

   On another occasion the guests were Sir Henry

Storks \ Sir Erskine May, Mr. Nasmyth, Lord Lyttel-

ton, Mr. Charles Howard, Sir Francis Doyle, and
Lady Lothian. ' Gladstone's old aunt of ninety-five,

  ^ This was just after the ' Eyre ' Commission, of which he had

been Chairman.
1871] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE  331

Miss Robertson, died last night, and he thought he ought

not to appear. They were very sorry not to see you
when you called. Mrs. Gladstone was what Agnes G.
calls " gone to the East." '

   In September, 1868, Acland spent a Sunday at Clieve-
den, whose ' proud alcoves ' were then in the possession
of the Duke of Westminster. Gladstone and Panizzi
were of the party, and are described as ' going on un-
ceasingly on all sorts of things, political and religious.'

   Panizzi does not go to church, so I had four walks alone

with Gladstone in full and serious conversation on several

matters. I cannot say how he impressed me by his largeness,
entire religiousness, love of all nobleness and profound
affection for 'humanity.' Then every now and then his
astonishing knowledge of details came out, figures and values
and details of commodities -- from copper, and iron, and tin

from Cornwall, America, and Europe, in their values as
contrasted with the same articles in Homer's time -- to the
proportional skill of Spaniards and English in cork-cutting --
to the particulars of oecumenical councils and the utmost
details of foreign and Italian policy. . . . Fancy my having

just now to play on the harmonium to the Duchess, and then
to play and sing with G. and Mrs. G. 'Abide with me ' as the
conclusion of the evening.

   This meeting was on the eve of the General Election
which swept Disraeli out of office and inaugurated the
great epoch of reform. Acland was a little nervous
perhaps of the changes which might be in store, but
he was under the wand of the magician.

                                                             July 30, 1867.
  A pleasant breakfast with Gladstone. I had gone in rather
a fright, expecting at least Mr. Beale and Mr, Odger with
Bright and Miall -- but who do you think ? Dr. Pusey on
Mr. Gladstone's right, and the Bishop of Gibraltar on his

left, and opposite to him Lady Herbert with me on her left,
Arthur Gordon, Strelezcki, and Sir H. Holland completing
the party. He talked most freely on the Irish Church and,
332  HENRY ACLAND  [1860-

I confess, entirely carried me away, and convinced my reason
and my moral nature. In fact I was more fascinated by him

than ever.

   The Irish Church question and politics generally
formed a bone of contention in the Acland family just
then. T. D. Acland was contesting North Devon as an
out-and-out Gladstonian. Arthur Mills, who had married

Miss Agnes Acland, was the Conservative candidate
for Exeter. Sir Thomas had no sympathy with the
Liberal party in its modern developments. ' Poor Tom

acts as a tremendous blister to my father,' wrote his

brother, and Sir Thomas is reported to have said that

he had to pay the piper and did not at all like the tune.
   But the old home life at Killerton was nearing its

close. Let me give a picture, from a letter of Acland's
to his wife, written in 1864, of Sir Thomas in his latest

days:

   I reached here at 11, got in at the back door unannounced
and found them in the library. We got to bed at 12,
wonderful to relate. This morning at 8 my father routed me
up, pulled me about, shouted at the window to AchiP (the

window happily would not open), and ended by wheeling my

fourpost bedstead round to the window, that the light might

hinder me from going to sleep. At 8.30, however, I was

asleep again, so he got Agnes's boys to pull my legs, which
operation continued till 9, when happily they were got out,
and I locked the door. Which being discovered, they were
set to run at the door full tilt till I was dressed. These ten
years I have never seen him appear so well, or on the whole

so quiet and happy ^.

  ^ A favourite dog.

   ^ Indeed the routine of the household seems to have altered
little. In 1856, Acland wrote to his wife from Killerton : ' After
I arrived last night at 9.30, they were still at wine, then there was
coftee, tea, my repast combining all with a dismal elegy that I had

not had curry, hot mutton, pie, dessert, pudding, and the other
things -- over and above what I had, you observe. Then prayers,

poetry afterwards, and fierce Natural History. Arthur in despair
1871]  DEATH OF HIS FATHER                                   333

   On the 22nd of July, 1871, Sir Thomas Acland died
suddenly. His morning prayers were over, his Bible

was ready that he might read the daily lessons as usual,
when he became faint and was gone. Not long before
his death he had repeated with his wonted emphasis

and feeling some favourite lines from Cowper's Task.

                                            'And so at last
       My share of duties decently fulfilled,

       May some disease, not tardy to perform
       Its destined office, yet with gentle stroke

       Dismiss me weary to a safe retreat

       Beneath the turf that I have often trod.'

   Beneath that turf he was laid by the side of his wife,
from whom he had been parted for fifteen years. It has

been given to few men to retain the affection and venera-
tion of their children in the same degree as did the

old Sir Thomas. Henry Acland seldom concluded a

letter which in any way bore upon his home life without
thanking God for giving him such a father.

because he was kept up so late ; and then into my room, where he

stayed till 12.30. I could not tell a tenth part of what has happened,
it is more than a month at Oxford ; distracted I go about saying
I wonder how they live through it.'
                CHAPTER XII

PRESIDENT OF THE MEDICAL COUNCIL-
     ROYAL COMMISSIONS -- UNIVERSITY

     POLITICS -- FRIENDSHIPS AND COR-
     RESPONDENCE--TOWN AND GOWN

                                          1865-1874

   In 1874 Acland was elected President of the Medical
Council in succession to Sir George Paget, a post which
he retained for thirteen years. In a sense it was the
climax of his career. In the eyes of the public he now
stood as the representative and the mouthpiece of the
medical profession ; through him the University of
Oxford was brought into a more clearly defined con-
nexion with the question of medical training, and he was
able to give fuller prominence to his long-cherished views
on the necessity of a liberal education for those about to
' be entered on the physic line.' And if his presidency

was an epoch in Acland's own life, it was also one in
the existence of the body over which he was called to
preside. In point of professional attainments or reputa-
tion, Acland would have been the first to deprecate
comparison between himself and many of the illustrious
occupants of the chair. But in some ways he came to
fill a place on the Council for which there has never
been any exact parallel before or since.

   In June of that year, while the election was in the
balance. Sir Robert Christison had written to him in
the following terms :

  Of all the London men with whom I have come in contact
lately, Gull is he whom I should prefer to be my President --
unless I could appoint yourself. No one else has such

experience : your University views make you the most
impartial man for rule in such an assembly : nor do I think
      PRESIDENT OF MEDICAL COUNCIL 335

any one else would so combine the fortiter with the siiaviter,
unless it be Gull, perhaps.

   How far Sir R. Christison's estimate was justified
may be gathered from what Sir William Turner, the
present President, has written elsewhere ^ of Acland :

   His academic and social position and the innate nobility
of his nature had, from an early period of his life, gained for
him the friendship and confidence of the leaders of the
medical profession, of statesmen of both parties, and others

eminent in public life, and contributed in no small measure
to ensure harmonious relations between the Medical Council
and the departments of Government with which it is brought
into official communication.

   Indeed, there is hardly a single question affecting the
public health or the interests of the medical profession
in which his correspondence does not reveal him as the
confidential adviser of Ministers and their subordinates.

He was, I think I may say without exception, on terms
of intimacy with the bearers of all the most distinguished
names in Medicine and Surgery; and he was constantly
being called upon to avail himself of his personal rela-
tions with the Prime Minister of the day, or with the
various heads of departments, by laying before them in
private representation, the rights and wrongs of some
pressing matter of business. His connexion with a great
University which has been a nursing mother of states-
men, the accident of birth and up-bringing which had

thrown him from the earliest years into association with
the foremost men of the time, all contributed to give
him prestige in the council-room, and to raise the
Council itself in the estimation of the outside world.
The dinners and breakfast parties at which he used to
entertain his colleagues, together with a liberal sprinkling
of distinguished public men, are still remembered by the
latter as well as by the former. The medical profession

   * In the obituary notice contained in the Transactions of the Royal

Society.
336  HENRY AC LAND  [1865-

was brought into connexion with the leaders of poHtical

and literary life in a manner which was wholesome for
all concerned. On the occasion of one of these dinners
the House of Commons had adjourned its morning

sitting to allow members to be present at the funeral
of Lord Beaconsfield. Mr, Gladstone had to leave the

table early so as to be in his place at the commencement
of business. Acland rose in the middle of dinner to

propose the health of the Prime Minister, and then,
* while the meat was yet in their mouths,' Mr. Gladstone

gave an eloquent and luminous disquisition on the
resemblances and the divergences between the careers
of the doctor and the statesman.

   In presiding at the deliberations of the Council, Acland

is described as being * courteous in manner, graceful in

speech, dignified in presence.' It was no easy position ;

he had often a troublesome team to drive, and uniform

success would have been beyond expectation. His

somewhat elaborate oratory was not always received
without impatience, and there were occasions when he
seemed to be prone to talk round his subject. But'
Acland was shrewder than some of his critics ; long
experience in fighting an uphill battle at Oxford had
taught him to move along the line of least resistance.

If the rougher spirits from the sister isle or elsewhere

showed at times a disposition to resent the ' grand
manner' which was so conspicuous, albeit so uncon-

scious, a characteristic, yet his urbanity and his never-

failing consideration for all with whom he was in contact

seldom failed in the long run to inspire the malcontents
with feelings of affectionate regard and respect.

   He contributed valuable assistance in the forma-
tion of the British Pharmacopoeia, and he laboured

strenuously to obtain a public recognition of proficiency
in State Medicine. He had the satisfaction of seeing
a very general institution of Examinations in Public
Health, and by the Medical Act of 1886, which rendered
registrable the diplomas thus obtained, the sanction of
i874] PRESIDENT OF MEDICAL COUNCIL 337

the State Was given to them as a quahfication for the
discharge of the duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
He failed, however, to induce the Universities of Oxford,
Cambridge, and London to establish a conjoint examina-
tion and confer a joint diploma in Public Health open
to all qualified medical men. Had he been successful in
the endeavour -- and he only failed narrowly of carrying
his point --we might have had one standard examination
in this subject for the whole kingdom carried out by the
three leading Universities of England.

   During his years of office his energies were mainly
devoted towards widening the scope of the scientific
training of the medical student. He had no desire to
see the functions of the Council enlarged. ' Let us

limit ourselves,' he said to the select committee on the
Medical Act Amendment Bill, 'as far as possible to all

questions which pertain, first to the general education,
character, and culture of our profession ; second to its

scientific teaching, education, and attainments ; and then
to the examinations in the practical knowledge of its
students,'

   The thoroughness and labour which he had bestowed
on his duties as a member of the Council may be

gathered from his statement to the same committee in
June, 1879, that he had never been absent a single day
that the Council had sat, except once when he had to
attend Convocation at Oxford ^ As President his work
was of course more onerous and responsible : he took
special care in organizing the visits of inspection to the
various examining bodies, and particularly in arranging
for the presence and comfort of such visitors at Oxford,

   ^ It was on his way to a council meeting that he was caught in
the great storm of January, 1881, and snowed up in the Culham
railway cutting for nearly thirty-six hours. Dean Liddell and his

family were embedded in the same drift, but in a different train, as

they were coming down from London. A large number of unfor-

tunate travellers had to encamp for a day or two in the station
waiting-room at Oxford, and Acland sent up supplies of food to
them from his own house.

                                                             Z
338  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

and he was perpetually travelling up and down to settle
and determine matters of practical detail in the London

office of the Council. It was impossible that such an
absorption in the general affairs of the profession could
fail to interfere with his private practice, from which he

was gradually compelled to withdraw.
   There were other disturbing causes which for some

years past had taken him more and more from the daily

round in Oxford and the neighbourhood. As far back
as September, 1865, Acland had been invited, by a tele-
gram from Sir Arthur Helps, to sit on the Royal

Commission appointed to investigate the nature and
origin of the cattle plague. He assented, but the delay
consequent upon his absence from Oxford resulted in
the Commission being filled up before his answer was
received. Liddell, whom he had consulted in the matter,

strongly dissuaded him from accepting.

  If you were an ordinary man and would work at a com-

mission without much labour and expenditure of time as some

men can, I should say 'Accept.' But, as you are, and will

be, I should be inclined to say you had better decline. The
work will involve a good deal of anxiety and trouble, will

take you much away from Oxford, and in the end probably
will not come to much. . . . Supposing no very great practical
result to be likely to be attained --will your acting on the

Commission profit you in your profession? I should think

rather the reverse. There is now a notion abroad that you

have been taking the scientific rather than the practical line,
and will not your acting on such commissions strengthen this

notion? If you wish this to be so, then accept the offer by

all means.

   Liddell gave similar advice two or three years later,

and impressed upon him the certain pecuniary loss, to
say nothing of the heavy additional labour, which must
follow upon such an extension of his activities. But
Acland had counted the cost, and his help was given

freely to the public service, whenever and wherever he

felt he could contribute to the general well-being. In
i874] ROYAL COMMISSIONS  339

1867 he was appointed a member of the Cubic Space
Commission, the object of which was to ascertain the

space and area allowed in the dormitories and infirmary-
wards for each inmate of the metropolitan workhouses.
In 1869 he served on a much wider inquiry, the Royal
Commission into the sanitary laws of England and

Wales. It was a work which entailed enormous labour

and visits of inspection into all parts of the country.
Acland's share in the work was almost preponderant ;
his knowledge of detail and his practical mind were the
admiration of his fellow workers, and many of his most

valued friendships date from incidents and expeditions
arising out of this Commission. Among these may be

mentioned Sir John Lambert and Sir Douglas Galton,

and it was in this way that he first made the acquaint-
ance of Mr. Chamberlain.

   His ' cholera-book ' and his reports on kindred sub-

jects ^ had made him a special authority on the drainage
of the Thames Valley, and he was an important witness

before the Select Committee appointed to inquire into

the sewage disposal of London. It would be impossible

to enumerate all the committees and commissions before

which he was called upon to give evidence, but I may
mention the Public Schools' Commission, the second

University Commission, the so-called Vivisection Com-

mission, the above-mentioned Committee on the Medical

Acts, and the highly important Commission on * Scientific
Instruction and the Advancement of Science ' appointed
in 1870 and presided over by the then Duke of Devon-
shire. In addition to this public work he was in constant

request where private individuals or bodies wanted an
adviser on some sanitary question. He was called in

to inspect the cottages on the Sandringham estate ; in
inviting him to Woburn on a similar errand, the Duke

   ^ e. g. Notes on Drainage with reference to sewers and swamps
of the Upper Thames (1857) ; Fever in Agricultural Districts
(1858) ; Report on the general Sanitary Condition of Cowley
Industrial School (1863).

                                                    Z2
340  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

of Bedford wrote : ' You may do good if you will teach

me to house the poor as an example to others and not
as a rich man's fancy.' In June, 1873, he was corre-
sponding with Lord Carnarvon and Lord Salisbury
with a view to a scheme for the erection of model

cottages. We have seen him at Rugby, and at a later

date he was brought down to Uppingham, then a prey
to an outbreak of typhoid, which rendered necessary
the temporary removal of the school to the sea-breezes

of Borth. A characteristic story is told of how Acland

fidgeted the school doctor to distraction by his apparent
interest in everything but the school drains. When
only half an hour remained he suddenly proposed an
excursion to the top of the church tower. Then with
the town spread out below him like a map, and with its

plan under his eyes, he was able in a few minutes to

point out how the drainage ought to go ; and the business
was done. And it ought to be added that for many
years he was an active member of the Council of
King's College, where his old pupil Lionel Beale was
Professor of the principles and practice of Medicine : the
existence of the laboratories and their maintenance on

a proper scale was largely due to Acland's efforts and
to those of Archbishop Thomson.

   Moreover, these were years of considerable literary
activity. In 1864 he published his biographical sketch
of Sir Benjamin Brodie, originally read before the
Royal Society. In 1865 he delivered an address before
the British Association at Birmingham on the relations
of physiology and medicine, and on the visit of the
British Medical Association to Oxford in 1868 he gave
the presidential address. In 1865, moreover, he was

appointed to give the Harveian Oration, and he chose
for his subject ' a discussion on Comte's statement con-
cerning Final Causes,' making a notable, but much
approved innovation by delivering it in English. Liddell

was pleased, but blended, as was his wont, a little reproof

with the commendation.
1874] LITERARY ACTIVITY  341

   I thought your address very clear, pertinent, and useful;
nor, as Conybeare rather led me to expect, do I see how it

can give umbrage to the Physiologists, or to any mortal man.

  If you will adhere to the line of work you lay down, you

will be very wise, and will (I am sure) get on very well.
Add to this, if the Acland nature will permit, a little economy
of time and more rigour of punctuality, and nothing will be
wanting to make your life happy. You will have more
leisure for professional work, and more time for meals and

sleep, which last matter you cannot continue to neglect with

impunity.

   In 1868 he published his address on the opening of

the new school at St. George's Hospital, rich in the
memories of his past days. In 1871 he expanded into
a pamphlet of 100 pages a lecture which he had
delivered in the Royal College of Physicians on
National Health, dedicated ' to all who are striving to

combine material progress with advance in morality.'

At the Brighton Church Congress of 1874 he read
a paper on the ' Influence of Social and Sanitary Con-
ditions on Religion.' There are other lectures and
addresses too numerous to mention. Acland always

took immense pains with them, having in his mind's eye

the multitudes who would be reached by the written
rather than the spoken word; and then with a few

revisions and additions they were ready for the press.
   The present Controller of the University Press,

Mr. Horace Hart, has supplied me with some interest-
ing particulars of the interest he took in the printing
and correction of his writings:

   He was constantly in and out, bringing with him such

small matters as notices which he wished to be printed and
circulated, occasionally larger works in the shape of lectures

and pamphlets, and in one instance a considerable and im-
portant book. There was always about him a breezy and
vigorous air as he came bustling into the Press ; he invariably
wished to meet the actual workman who was to have the

putting of his MS. into type; and when the work was done.
342  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

would always want to thank him personally. He had an
embarrassing habit also of desiring to bestow pecuniary

rewards on the artisan who pleased him, and I remember

one instance in which a gratuity had to be made over to the

workmen's benefit fund, because, as I pointed out to him, the

man had already been paid for his labour, and it would make

those engaged on other work discontented if he persisted.
We generally managed to send him clean proofs notwith-

standing the very bad hand which he wrote during the days

at any rate when I knew him, and he almost always called

personally at the University Press to give vent to his gratitude
and his admiration of the skill of the compositor and reader

in deciphering his MS. He was delighted when I told

him that his handwriting was legibility itself compared with
that of Dean Stanley. ' Didn't think anything could be worse,'
he said. In 1893 ^^s little book on the Museum was reprinted.
It was published by Mr. George Allen and had to be printed

on hand-made paper with large margins in the manner

adopted for the Ruskin publications. In all the details of

publication he took a delight which was almost boyish,
and he was most appreciative of any help in carrying out

his ideas. I have before me a copy of the book in which
Sir Henry has written, * Pray accept 7ny copy of your
beautiful work.' This was quite seriously intended, and
he would have been much hurt if it had been treated as

a joke.

   The outside interests, though largely destructive of
his private practice, were not allov^ed by Acland to
interfere v^^ith the various University offices which he
held. Besides the Regius and Clinical Professorships
and the Radcliffe Librarianship, he was a Curator of
the Bodleian and of the University Art Galleries, and
a sort of general 'Protector' of the Museum, now
rapidly increasing in scope and usefulness. He was
thus drawn into the whirlpool of University politics, and

his position in them requires attention.
   The epoch which lies between the first and the second

University Commissions was one of extraordinary
activity at Oxford. The stroke of a pen had trans-
i874]      UNIVERSITY POLITICS                                         343

formed the mediaeval t:6\is into a modern University

town. Its government had passed from the hands of

the old Hebdomadal Board, and a group of reformers

was ready to organize the new structure which had risen

on the foundations of the old. There has never been

a time when Oxford was richer in men of large views,

boundless energy and powers of work, and possessing

clear ideas both of what they wanted and of how to

           In their eyes the moulding of individual
ifcompass

            it
                  it.

                 I It
                                       '
                                                        '

                           J.
                                                  a
                                                                    '
character and the success of an individual college in the

class lists was not the be-all and end-all of University

existence. Content to leave tutorial work to those

whom more directly concerned, they concentrated

themselves on administration in the highest sense of

the word.  would be equally invidious and difficult

to compile anything like catalogue of these reformers,

but no one, think, will dispute the titles of Dean
Liddell, Professor H. S. Smith, and Professor Bar-

tholomew Price to the highest place among them. And
   Acland cannot attain unto the first three,' no one

who has followed the inner workings of University

machinery during those years would question his claim

to rank among the very foremost.

But there are reasons why, in the history of the

transformation of Oxford, Acland's share has never met

with full recognition. The efforts of the party of reform

flowed in two distinct streams; one was the enlarge-

ment and improvement of University studies, the other

the nationalization of the Universities by the abolition
of tests and theological restrictions. With the latter
'
                                               '

                                          a
object he had no overpowering sympathy, and he
regarded the men who directed this branch of the

Liberal movement in Oxford with very little confidence.
At the same time he took broad and comprehensive

view in the quasi-theological battles which raged in
Oxford during the sixties. One of the most famous of

these was the contest for the Professorship of Sanskrit,

which rocked University society to its foundations;
344  HENRY ACLAND                           [1865-

and his letter to his father, who had been summoned

up from his retreat at Killerton, shows the spirit in

which he approached these vexed questions.

  Can I solve the dilemma? I should   prefer an English-
man to a German, tho' I may be mean   for doing so. But
if I were ever to prefer a foreigner  it would be Max

Miiller, old Bunsen's creation and friend to his death. The

arguments for Mr. Williams ^ do not weigh with me nearly

as strongly as those for Miiller. There seems to be no

question that Miiller as a scholar is supreme. Williams's

claims as a scholar are not professed to rival Miiller's, but

he is presumed to be a great teacher. He has been where

he had many pupils, and has therefore many supporters

in India. But see what is said of Miiller in India, where

he has no pupil and 7to friend but on public grounds, and see

what is thought of him in literary Europe generally. All

this being admitted in fact, it has been hinted that he may
not promote Christianity tho' he may promote philology.

Now happily I need not answer this. The answer is by

abler men, and better judges. Both Dr. Macbride, the ancient
evangelical leader in this place, and Dr. Pusey, who have
known him and observed him for fifteen years, are his warm

supporters. Here there is no question as to the weight of

metal in the two scales. If numbers are in Miiller's favour

it will be a rare testimony in favour of the value of great
merit with natural disadvantages when pitted against moderate

merit with great accidents to aid and support it. How I wish

you would pair and not take this long journey.

   The tone which the advanced section of the Radical
Dons of those days adopted towards all questions con-
cerning the Church of England was profoundly dis-
tasteful to Acland. He was no partisan of the old

exclusiveness, and he recognized the hardship which
was suffered by men of high character and great attain-
ments under the existing regime, but he felt that the
abolition, or even the modification of the tests, however

inevitable, was a step towards that impending seculari-

   ^ Max Mailer's successful opponent was Professor Monier
Williams.
i874] UNIVERSITY POLITICS                        345

zation of Oxford which he could not regard without

alarm. One of the early acts of the Reformed Parlia-

ment of 1869 was to render Oxford, Cambridge, and

\Durham more accessible to the nation by the removal
of divers restrictions, tests, and disabilities  Acland

accepted the measure, with the full knowledge that it

was only an instalment. The attitude of those who

felt bound as a matter of conscience and duty to oppose
the Bill is admirably expressed in the following letter
from Lord Salisbury. It is dated some three years

previous to the passing of the Act of 187 1, and refers
to a Bill with the same object which Mr. John Duke
Coleridge, Q.C., member for Exeter, and afterwards

Lord Chief Justice of England, had introduced into the
House of Commons^, where Lord Cranborne, as he

then was, sat for Stamford.

   Many thanks for your letter. I quite comprehend your

difficulties, for there can be no doubt that the existing tests

are in an unsatisfactory form and that they only indirectly
meet the exigencies of the present time. They were made
to keep out Romanists and Nonconformists, of whom we are

not now most afraid. They are much too minute for a time

when consciences, though by no means powerful, are

remarkably fastidious and microscopic.

   But Coleridge's Bill is a step not to better tests but to no
tests at all. The reservation of power to the Colleges is
quite illusory. The visitor is almost always either the Crown

or some Bishop ; and the Bishops are unlikely to authorize
the imposition of a special test in any college.

   I agree that the tests do not exclude careless men. But
I am not afraid of careless men. What I am afraid of is the

Atheistic propaganda which is growing to be such a terrible

power in modern cultivated society. It is idle of course to

  ^ The Act of 1871 (34 Vict. c. 26) will always be associated with
the name of Lord Goschen, then member for the City of London

and a former fellow of Oriel.

   ^ It was brought in on February i8, 1868, and the second reading
was carried by a majority of fifty, but it made no further progress,
and was withdrawn on July 22.
346  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

suppose that any manner of restriction will silence these
opinions. But allowing them free scope is one thing : bring-
ing them into close contact with what are to be the leading
minds of England, at the soft and plastic age, is quite another.
It seems to me carrying free trade in dogma a great deal

too far.

  If I saw anything in Coleridge's Bill of the nature of a

compromise I should try to meet him, for we are too feeble

and too shattered to hope for anything on any subject but

favourable terms of capitulation. But the permission to
Colleges, with the consent of their Visitors, to make exclusive
statutes if they dare, is only a bitter mockery of the notorious
timidity and helplessness of those who are attached to

established institutions. I am afraid you are buying the

admission of a few choice and scrupulous men -- an important

object, I quite grant -- at too dear a price. But I am afraid

your view will prevail, and the price will be paid.

   I once thought that we might have fought this point for

a time successfully and so protected Oxford until the tide of
unbelief which is running so strong outside had turned, and
better days had come back. But if you and others whose
judgement and devotion are so much respected have decided
to give way, there is little more to be done. Long before
those better days come back, Oxford will be contributing

to the sustenance of religious life in this country about as

much as an average German University. God help us all,

it is a bitter comfortless prospect.

   In the course of the following year Lord Salisbury,

who had now succeeded to the family honours, was
elected Chancellor of the University in succession to
the Earl of Derby. Needless to say it was a source of
much satisfaction to Acland that one for whom on

personal and private grounds he had so deep a regard
should be placed in the highest post of honour which
Oxford can bestow. The new Chancellor's letter throws
a further light on the relations between the two. Acland

may have sympathized with his correspondent's fore-
bodings, but he was prepared to confront the battle in

a more buoyant spirit.
i874] UNIVERSITY POLITICS  347

   Many thanks for your kind expressions. I value them
much more than I do the Chancellorship.

   I am sorry that I have been in any way a cause of discord,
but it is no fault of mine. I not only did not seek the post,
but sought to decline it : feeling with you, that the holder of
it should be less of a partisan, and more of a scholar. I

allowed myself to be nominated only on receiving from

several independent authorities the assurance that by so

doing I should spare the University a contest, as my candi-

dature was less likely to excite hostility than any other at
this moment practicable. It was only natural that those who

agree with my general opinions should be forward to support

me. But I do not think any party demonstration was in-
tended. I quite agree with you that a University should be

governed, both by its nominal and its real chiefs, without
reference to the political struggles of the day.

   But an Ethiopian cannot change his skin -- nor can I put
off my 'Toryism '-- my deep distrust of the changes which are
succeeding each other so rapidly. Numbers of men support
them who are not of the spirit that bred them : but that

spirit is essentially a pagan spirit, discarding the supernatural,
and worshipping not God but man. It is creeping over
Europe rapidly : and I cannot put off the conviction that it is

dissolving every cement that holds society together.

   I have given you enough and too much of my gloomy

thoughts. They have been excited by reading in a Liberal

paper 'that learning is too high and sacred a thing to be

sectarian.' Bah 1

   One more dictum of Lord Salisbury's. In June, 1870,

it was proposed to confer an Honorary Degree on
Charles Darwin. This was warmly opposed by Pusey,

and once again Acland's personal influence with him
was called into requisition. In a long interview he
strove to dissuade the great divine from stirring up the
embers of an unhappy controversy and giving fresh
occasion for the foes of Oxford to blaspheme. The
issue was uncertain when they parted, but Acland
returned to the charge with the following letter :

It was very kind of you after giving me so much time on
348  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

Friday to take the trouble of sending me the passage which
seemed to you important in respect to the estimate of Darwin.

   As I understand him I do not agree with the writer. He
seems to me to misapprehend the nature of Darwin's work,
which is an inquiry into the facts of the Material organism
of the Planet. The writer seems to forget Butler's argument
(which I feel more and more keenly) as to the partial know-
ledge of the Creation which is attainable by us. It will
indeed be poor encouragement to the honest pursuit of
truth if men may not state without fear the facts they discover.
I would add, as I had occasion to say many years ago to one

who had neither the sagacity nor the courage to follow you
in helping the study of Physical science, that his evident fear
of inquiry necessarily suggested to scientific students and
others doubts as to the strength of his faith in God. No

student of nature has anything to fear, and he takes the
universe as he finds it. He learns what scraps of it he can ;
and if morally tender, like Harvey, Newton, or Hunter, he

seeks and adores ; though he seeks dimly, and adores in

hope and trust yet not with sight.

  If you will show me a single irreverent passage or un-

charitable passage in Darwin's writings, I will re-consider the

whole matter. Meanwhile it seems strange to cast a slur on
Darwin just when the learned author of Mansel's Bampton
Lectures is made, as I said on Friday, a Dean in the Metropolis
after all the tendencies, real or supposed, of his arguments.

   I wish to keep clear of the question whether Darwin's
inferences are correct. It is Darwin's exceeding eminence

and his character as a working man that justify and required

me to beg you respectfully to pause before bringing about his
rejection here. Lord Salisbury, as you, my dear Dr. Pusey,
know, is a devout man. What must be the difficulty in which

he finds himself? However, I must cease, again thanking

you for your great and ready kindness on Friday.

   The opposition was v^^ithdrawn, though how far
Acland's reasoning was efficacious is uncertain, for

Pusey declared to him that he acted ' on the authority

of one whose judgement I deservedly set far above my
own.' This authority is conjectured by Lord Salisbury,
1874] UNIVERSITY POLITICS                                                349

to whom Acland forwarded the correspondence, to have
been Liddon,

   'Your reply to Pusey/ he wrote, 'was excellent. I am
very glad he found a wise man of his own way of thinking
to back it up. I never could understand why creation cut
up into short lengths was any the less creation. It would
seem to me, on the contrary, a demonstration of greater and
more enduring power, if such adjectives can be used on such

a subject.*

But Pusey was wounded to the heart. ' I shall not

take any part in the University proceedings except in
mourning over them ' were his parting words to Acland.
The whole affair was crowned by Darwin declining,

on the score of ill-health, to come up and receive the

proffered distinction.

   The position which Acland took up with regard to
general politics was a somewhat peculiar one. In the

first place he maintained that a doctor ought to have no

politics. In the second he held upon the whole, to
a
                                                                    it,

                                                   It
be the best course for one who, like himself, was not

practical politician, to support the Queen's Government
                                                                         was the duty of
whatever its shibboleths might be.

the Government to promote that progress of internal im-

provement in the condition of the whole people in

which he took so keen an interest. Sanitary questions,

education, the due adjustment of local wants and rights
and areas of administration, together with efficiency in

the Army and Navy, these were the affairs of state on

which, as citizen and specialist, he laid most stress, as
a
          a

                         a
                                               a
well as he might in the days before the Eastern Question,

Ireland, South Africa, China, and Egypt had relegated

domestic affairs to the second place in party programmes.
He had been warm supporter of Mr. Gladstone as

Member for the University, had served on his election

committees, and had deeply deplored his rejection in
1865. But in 1874, when the Conservatives were placed
in power, he was for giving them trial.
350  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

  A government (he wrote) which has not a powerful majority

can never be at its best. Had Mr. Gladstone had full

confidence and proper support he would have had fewer
critics and prolonged power. The finest parts of his great
nature would have had time and opportunity denied to one
who had a divided army behind him. Shall we because the

' Liberal party ' has done much, for which I am grateful, do

what in us lies to hamper their successors in office ? . . .
Extreme opinions on either side have been the bane of the

English haute politique ever since I can remember. Extreme
opinions are the terror of all sober patriots. Which are the
worst enemies of steady progress, Tory obstruction or Radical
intemperance, I know not. . . . Looking, then, as calmly and
as practically as I can at the existing state of affairs, I desire

that the present Cabinet should have the fullest opportunity
of carrying forward the best work of the late Government
and the good work of their own. As sure as they flinch

from this their days are numbered.

   The quotation is from a printed but unpublished
letter written by Acland during the bye-election at

Oxford, caused by the elevation to the Peerage, in
February, 1874, of Mr. Cardwell. The Conservative and

Liberal candidates were Mr. A. W. Hall and Mr. J. D.
Lewis respectively; and Acland declared that if he

voted at all it would not be for the latter. In the course

of the contest Mr. Lewis was exposed to bitter personal
attacks by the opponents of the Contagious Diseases
Acts. Acland wrote a strong letter of protest to the
local press, as an act of justice to which he considered
the Liberal candidate was entitled ; but he refused to

be drawn into any action which might be construed as
an endorsement of Mr. Lewis's candidature.

  To him, as to many others, the Agricultural Labourers'
Union had seemed a movement which, if wisely directed,

might do much in raising the standard of life and com-
fort in the villages. It was a subject in which he had

always taken deep interest, and when in October, 1872,
Mr. Joseph Arch was announced to speak at Oxford,
1874]  CORRESPONDENCE  351

Acland felt strongly inclined to go and hear him. He
was dissuaded, however, by Lord Carnarvon in the

following letter :

   My inclinations in doubtful cases of this kind are always to
the cautious side, and so I should advise you not to attend

the meeting.

   In the first place, Arch is apparently becoming more and
more of apolitical agitator, and those who seem to sympathize
with him will naturally lose influence and power of usefulness
with the more moderate part of the country. In the next
place, such a meeting as is convened by him will probably
not be one where moderate and sound counsels will have
a chance of being heard. The time is probably at hand when
reasonable men will get the chance and have a right to give
their opinion, and it is of consequence that those who can give

good advice should not prejudice themselves in popular
judgement by premature or ill-advised action. You can do
extremely little good by attending; you may find yourself
in an awkward position personally, and find your ultimate
power of good much curtailed ^

   It was sound advice, and it exactly embodied the rule
of conduct which Acland had evolved for his own general

guidance.

   It is impossible to give any adequate account of the

various interests and the various friendships which went

to make up his life during these busy years. A few

extracts, taken almost at random from his papers, must
serve to show the many-sidedness of the man and the
broad humanity which could attract so miscellaneous a

correspondence. If the effect produced is kaleidoscopic,
I can only answer that Acland's life was a kaleidoscope.

             The Danish Island of Falsten, September 27, 1862.

   You perhaps recollect having met, my dear Sir, on the
road between Windsor and London, two travellers towards

   ^ Acland does not appear to have attended the memorable
meeting ten years later, when Joseph Arch revisited Oxford and
Professor Smith contracted his fatal chill while occupying the chair.
352  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

whom you were in a way kind that they hardly ever will
forget you. You asked them to come and to spend a whole
Sunday with you at Oxford, and to join those young students
for whom you have room besides your own seven sons.
We did not come, for we dare not come ; we indeed were
too foreign to you. Still I feel I am bound, and more, to

tell you how thankful I feel for your exceeding kindness;
a kindness which you only, and I am sorry to say so, find in

England. You treated us not as foreigners, but like old
acquaintances. Allow me to ask you to do me a little favour,

and not take it amiss when I try to show how deeply I

recognized your wish to let us spend a day in an English
family, and let me send you a small trial of my dairy, which
generally produces pretty good butter.

    Once more repeating my best thanks, and asking you to

excuse these bad English lines, I sign me,

                                                   Yours very truly,
                                                       Edw. Fesdorff.

                        (From Charles Mayo'.)
                      Camp in Rear of Vicksburg, June 23, 1863.

   As my connexion with the medical service of the United
States seems to be drawing to a close, I have thought that you
might be interested in hearing of the career of the only member
of our University who has entered the service.

   I reached Washington about the middle of November

last, offered myself for examination, and was promised a
commission as Assistant-Surgeon of Volunteers, i.e. Staff

Assistant-Surgeon. I was put on duty immediately in Washing-

ton in attendance on sick and wounded volunteer officers, in

which duty I remained till the middle of last month. Having
found favour in the eyes of the authorities, I was recommended

by the Surgeon-General for promotion to Staff-Surgeon about

February 5. About the same time I was ordered to serve as a

member of the Examining Board for Staff-Surgeons ; but as

my commission had not then been confirmed by the Senator,

this order was found to be illegal, and I did not serve on
the Board, which I much regret. In April, Major-General

   ^ Mr. Mayo, the distinguished army surgeon, was a Fellow of New
College. Besides his work with the Federal Army he did admirable
service with the Prussian ambulance in 1870.
i874] CORRESPONDENCE  353

Hartsuff, who was then going from Washington to take
command of a new Army Corps, the 23rd, in Kentucky and
East Tennessee among the mountains, asked me to come
with him as Medical Inspector of his corps, and on my

consenting, obtained verbal orders from the Surgeon-General

and the Secretary-of-War to that effect. But the person

whose duty it was to write out the order, inserted by mistake
the name of General Grant instead of that of General Burnside

as commander of the department to which Hartsuff's corps

belonged ; and his superiors signed the order without looking
at it. In consequence of this blunder, which the Surgeon-

General told me he could not afford to acknowledge and

rectify, I was sent down here. I left Washington about the
middle of May. My present duty is that of Medical Inspector

of the 13th Corps, commanded by Major-General Ord, who
has replaced McClernand within the last week. The corps
numbers from 20,000 to 25,000 men. Ever since my arrival

I have been troubled with an illness which prevents me

from doing much duty; and as the worst season of the year
has not yet begun, I do not expect to be of much use in this
climate. Consequently I have determined to resign, and to

leave the service whether they accept my resignation or not.

I shall wait till the 30th of this month, which will have given

the Surgeon-General ample time to reply to the requests

addressed to him by General Hartsuff, whom I saw at
Louisville (Kentucky) on my way to this place.

   Vicksburg still holds out, and seems likely to do so. It is

not known with certainty whether the besieged have thrown
up an inner line of works besides those which confront us
since the beginning of the siege ; it is certain that they had

a second line when the siege began. Up to this point they

have lost nothing. They are careful not to waste ammunition,
and are feeding their men on half rations, if the deserters
are to be believed. I am getting accustomed to the whizzing
and banging of shells, and the whistle of rifled cannon shot.
My tent is pitched under a pair of fine beeches, on a hill ;
and if it were not for the climate and the badness of the
water, would be a most desirable summer residence. The
want of water will be a serious diflficulty when the contents

of the cisterns, which the inhabitants use exclusively, have

                                               Aa
354  HENRY ACLAND         [1865-

been exhausted. The springs are all bad, and there are no

running streams. The country is all hill and valley, with

plenty of fine trees ; the magnolia, which is often as large

as an elm, is the most conspicuous. Blackberries, plums, and

peaches abound everywhere. There is not an able-bodied

white man to be seen in the country. They have all gone

with the arm}^, or escaped into Texas. The negroes are

living on rations drawn from the Federal Commissioners ;

they will not long remain to embarrass their liberators, for

they are dying off like rotten sheep wherever they leave their

masters. The men are impressed and made to work for the

army, or put into the negro regiments ; and the women and

children are kept in camps, which soon become foul and

unhealthy. The same thing is going on at Washington with

the Virginia slaves.

I presented the note which you were kind enough to give

me to General McClellan when he was in exile at Trenton,

and I also called upon him lately in New York. We hear

that Lee has advanced into Maryland and Pennsylvania;

from what I saw and heard in the Army of the Potomac just

before Hooker's defeat, I have no doubt that as soon as

there is any real danger there will be a cry for McClellan

which the Government can scarcely resist. I was surprised at

the constancy with which that army holds to its first love.

We are just notified by the Commander of the Corps that

a battle is expected at any moment : probably with some of

Johnston's forces in our rear. We do not believe that he
has enough men to do much harm ; at all events I hope not
to have to take a tour round the South as prisoner. I must

now hasten to my duties.  Charles Mayo.

                    (From Herbert Spencer.)

             88 Kensington Gardens' Square, December 11, 1865.

  Dear Sir,
           I have to thank you for the copy of the Oration^

which you have been so good as to send me. Without
discussing the view which you take, let me say that I am very
glad to see the question deliberately treated. Nothing but

                                      ' The Harveian.
1874] CORRESPONDENCE                                 355

good can result from the comparison of opinions on these

fundamental problems.

   I wish every success to your efforts towards the extension
of scientific culture at Oxford. I feel some doubt whether

these old educational institutions can be adequately modified

to suit modern requirements, but I shall be glad to hear my

doubts proved groundless.
                                          Faithfully,

                                                 Herbert Spencer.

(From General McClellan.)

My dear Acland,                    P^^^^' ^'^'^'' ^^' ^^^7-

            I came here the night before last on some important
business, by no means on a pleasure trip ; and I am beyond

expression disappointed in finding that it will not be possible

for me to get through in time to enable me to get to Oxford

on Saturday. . . . Trusting, my dear Doctor, you will believe

that nothing but the force of imperative circumstances has
made me break my engagement, and with the hope that I shall

see your face, if only for an hour,
        I am, with kindest respects to Mrs. Acland,

                              Your sincere friend,

                                   Geo. B. McClellan.

(From Professor Tyndall.)

TMVTy dear -DPi r. AA cland,       February-^ 9^, 1867'.

            Many times since I received 3'our Oration I have
thought of writing to thank you for it. But I have been hard

pressed by other matters, and thus rendered tardy in the per-

formance of my duty to you. I read the discourse with great

interest, coming as it does from a high heart and a cultivated

head. For my own part, when I look over human history and

see how the belief for which you contend helped men to the

performance of deeds which are even now classed among

the greatest and most sublime achievements of humanity,

I am tempted to ask is there no way of preserving the force

intact? Must we go with all the forms to which in special
ages it linked itself? I cannot, I confess, look at the ex-

                              aa2
356  HENRY ACLAND                                                [1865-

tinction of this grand motive power without regret, and

I can hardly imagine it doomed to destruction.

   Perhaps the most significant phrase of the whole lecture is

that where you speak of a Supreme Will ' whom the reason

cannot comprehend, but whom the heart can approach \'

What you here translate into the approach of the heart is

the thing which gives the discussion value in your eyes.
As a purely intellectual problem in which your heart had no

share the question of a Supreme Will would possess com-

paratively little interest for you. You find this feeling to

be of an ennobling character, and you would therefore defend,

not only it but the conceptions with which it has been

associated, from all assault. But is it of necessity that the

beat of heart and height of soul should express themselves in
theological forms ? I hope not, for they will come to grief.

Judge of theological inquiry by its tendency and achievements
hitherto. The idea of entrusting any department or investi-

gation of general interest to humanity to the exclusive treat-

ment of theologians
     I               confess, exceedingly unacceptable to
Ifme. they knew their vocation the case might be different.iIs,

But, taking them as they are, they appear to me to be1
specially endowed with the capacity of bringing into con-
                                                    I
tempt the noblest aspirations of the human soul.             aI

Excuse this rather random production, and

                     Believe me.
                                     Yours faithfully,

                                           John Tyndall.

     (From Sir Thomas Watson.)
M,,y dear A. cland,
                                          Aufi^^usf 10, j868.

     have just been reading in the British Medical

Journal with great delight your most able and most interesting
address as President of the Association.
                                          sit down at once

to congratulate, applaud, and thank you for it.                  know no

one in our Profession who could have acquitted himself of

the appointed and necessary task half so eloquently or half
so well. What you have said cannot fail to have salutary,

elevating, and permanent influence on the whole body to
which we belong; nor to raise the character of our science

                     See p. 73.
i874] CORRESPONDENCE                                    357

and art in the minds of all outsiders who may read it. And

I trust, or rather take it for granted, that you will give out-

siders the opportunity and temptation to read it in a sepa-
rate form. The whole spirit of it -- scientific, humanitarian,
religious -- is excellent, and the diction admirable. I don't

shrink from using these strong expressions to you, because

I know you will not suspect me of using towards you words
of insincere or mere fulsome compliment. That your own

future course may be happy and brilliant in correspondence
with your noble aspirations is the prayer of.

                                       Yours ever affectionately,
                                                          Thos. Watson.

        (From Professor Huxley.)

TM\T y dear AA cland,  February-^ 7' , 187' 1.

        I see nothing to prevent my accepting your invitation

for the i8th, unless this wretched influenza which I have

been suffering from for the last fortnight should disable me

again. But I hope for better things. I shall be obliged to
return on the Sunday evening, if the Canon ^ won't be scandal-

ized. But I will make up by going to hear him preach in
the morning, if you will take such a heretic under your wing.

                       Ever yours very faithfully,
                                              T. H. Huxley.

(From Sir William Gull at Sandringham during the

                    Prince of Wales's Illness.)

DT-vear AA cland,      December lA^,' xQ'ii, 10 a..m.

            Yesterday was sad indeed, and both Jenner and I
began to drift from our hope. In the evening a change came

which has lasted up to now : first sleep, then slower and fuller

breathing, and lowering number of pulse. These changes

occurring at the expected time and beginning definitely make
us hope we are over the bar into smoother water.

   I cannot delay communicating to you the ground of our

hopes.                 Yours always most sincerely,

                                          William W. Gull.

        ^ I have been unable to identify the preacher.
358  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

                 (From the late Bishop Ryle.)
                   Stradbroke Vicarage, Suffolk, Dec. 21, 1872.

   Dear Sir,
           I believe we were at Christ Church together, and

this must be my apology for writing this letter. I hope you
will not think I take a liberty in asking you, as a medical
man of experience, to favour me with your opinion on a point

in Scripture.

   The point I refer to is a fact narrated by St. John, in his
Gospel, chap. xix. 34. He says that 'blood and water' came
forth from our Lord's body, after death, when a soldier

pierced his side with a spear.

   What I venture to ask is this : (i) Is it correct, anatomically,
that blood and water, or something closely resembling blood
and water, would naturally flow from the side of a dead
person if the heart or pericardium was pierced with a spear?
(2) Or are we to regard this issue of blood and water recorded
by St. John as an event, to say the least, extraordinary

and supernatural, and contrary to usual experience ?

   My reason for asking is very simple : I am just finishing
a very full Commentary on St. John's Gospel, and I find that
the opinions of commentators differ much on this verse.

   I have never studied anatomy, and of course have no right

to speak positively about it. Whatever your opinion may

be on the subject, I shall value it highly, and I should really
esteem it a favour if you would let me know it. Of course
I should make no use of your name.

                                                      Yours faithfully,
                                                           John C. Ryle.

               (From the late Lord Coleridge.)

                               Midland Circuit, Derby, March 5, 1875.
    My dear Acland,

             I am very sorry you did not come in when you called
at my house in London. I should very much like to have shown
you in situ some work of Butterfield's to which I do not think

you could have taken exception ; and it is always pleasant on

any occasion to see you or Mrs. Acland. But indeed I never
i874]  CORRESPONDENCE  359

dreamed of your having said anything which needed either
regret or excuse when we talked together at Wilhs's. I am

quite aware that every one does not look at my dear friend as

I look at him. It would be strange if they did ; for I have

been to some extent taught by him in many things about art,
and know his noble qualities and extraordinary powers in
a way in which men in general cannot and do not know them.

I should not be honest if I affected to doubt that my judge-

ment about him is right, and that hereafter people will feel
that a very great man has been amongst them ; but I am not

so foolish as to expect other people to feel my certainty when

I know they cannot feel the grounds of it. It is foolish if
I ever manifest impatience at a difference of opinion which

/is inevitable, and I did not know that to you I had. If I did,

and so far as I did, ought to be sorry and not you.
   What does sometimes provoke me is the utter unreason of

the reasons given for hostile judgements on him, which shows

not judgement but mere prejudice. Chequered bricks may
be beautiful or ugly ; but why should men declaim against in
Keble the very same thing which they admire extravagantly
in a Suffolk or Essex Manor- House? Windows 35 feet
from the ground may be good or bad ; but at least it is no
more ' audacious ' and ' eccentric ' to use them in Keble
Chapel than in New College, or Magdalen, or King's, or Eton,
or a dozen other grand old buildings. Neither of these
things wringyour withers, so I may say them to you ; but this
sort of criticism is for the most part the kind of thing which

I hear directed against him, and it is provoking because it
is what I call no criticism at all.

                                        Yours always most truly,
                                                                Coleridge.

                  (From Sir Bartle Frere.)

                       Wressil Lodge, Wimbledon, May 12, 1875.
   My dear Acland,

           Many thanks for your note and its enclosure. I

sincerely trust you will be able to support the resolutions

to be proposed to-morrow in your Convocation, for enabling
candidates for the Indian Civil Service to reside at the
36o  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

University. It has always seemed to me most disastrous --
I was almost saying disgraceful -- to all parties concerned,
that it should be so difficult for a man to enter the Indian

Civil Service without sacrificing his University career that
few University men now attempt it. The Legislature pro-
fesses to open the Civil Service to the best-educated men
of all classes ; but practically University men are almost
excluded by the terms of the competition. This seems to

me a double injustice and wrong to India, because we lose

what I believe to be the best class of men for all Indian
purposes -- men taken from all ranks of our great middle-class
population, liberally trained and instructed, physically and

intellectually, in our best schools, and with the best asso-

ciations, moral, social, and political, which Englishmen can

have to make them hardworking, energetic, patriotic English-
men, fitted in every respect to rule and influence men of
other races and creeds. No Hindoos, however intellectual,
no pedants, however learned, will be efficient substitutes for
such men as you train at Oxford, and have trained for many
hundred years past (I do not say you at Oxford exclusively,
but you of both our Universities) with such eminent success.
There is much of the modern training which is especially
valuable -- inter alia, all you are doing to teach Physical
Science, and Sanitary Science, both of which sciences have
special utility as branches of education for India at the

present day.
   On the other hand, it seems to me that it is most unjust

to the University students that they alone should be debarred
from competing for such careers as the Indian Civil Service

affords.

    One naturally asks whose fault is it that they are debarred ?

The Civil Service Commissioners deny it is theirs. I do

not suppose you admit it is yours ; but you are now pro-

posing to do what in you lies to remove the bar, and I

heartily trust you will succeed, and that your example will
aid the Civil Service Commissioners to do their part.

    Please let me know the result, and believe me in great

haste,

                                        Ever yours affectionately,
                                                           H. B. Frere.
1874]  CORRESPONDENCE                                       361

   Acland and Sir Bartle Frere, though in no wise

related to one another, had an aunt in common,

Mrs. Henry Hoare of Morden, at whose house and
at Mitcham they had played together as children. On
Sir Bartle's retirement from the Indian service and
return to England the old intimacy was renewed. With
what interest Acland followed his subsequent career
at the Cape will be seen on a later page ^.

   Early in the seventies the now defunct Metaphysical

Society was founded, and Acland, brought in by the
indefatigable Secretar}', Mr. James Knowles, was an
occasional attendant at its evening meetings at the
Grosvenor Hotel. The part which Cardinal Manning

took in its discussions is well known ^, and in more

than one interesting letter to Acland he goes again over
the ground traversed in debate. ' What 3'ou said on
Tuesday night,' he writes on one occasion, ' seemed to
me to be very much to the point, and I hope in my
comments I did not seem to imply any variance. 1
thought we were on the same track. . . . This was my
drift against the semi-materialism of Huxley.'

   Jenny Lind--to turn to a very different side of
Acland's nature -- and her husband Mr. Goldschmidt,
were not unfrequent visitors to Broad Street. ' It is
indeed very kind of you, dear Mrs. Acland,' wrote the
Swedish nightingale in May, 1862, ' to think of us and
invite us to kill the peace of your house. We shall not,

however, go quite so far as to accept your most kind
invitation, as we have ordered rooms at the hotel ; but if
weshouldlet Walter come with us, I shall be very happy
to send him to play with your children, if you allow.'

   The acquaintance dated from her first visit to Oxford

in 1848, and w^as never allowed to drop. On one occa-
sion Acland pointed out to her the gap that had just
been made in the dining-room furniture by the loss of

a beautiful little organ belonging to Canon Courtenay,

       ^ See p. 401, infra.                   ii,  p. 513.

       ^ See Purcell's Life of Manning, vol.
362  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

and now reclaimed by him. Mr. and Mrs. Goldschmidt

were sympathetic, and took special trouble to procure
from Paris a large harmonium built practically under
the direction of Mr. Otto Goldschmidt, to replace as

far as possible the vanished instrument ^.

   I have said elsewhere that Acland had no strong

taste for the theatre. There is extant a letter to him from

Macready, in which the latter places a stall at his dis-

posal with the words, ' My desire to manifest to you my
wish to render you any little courtesy in my power will,
I know, be understood by you.' As to whether the
offer was accepted, history is silent ; but Acland's
friendship with Tom Taylor took him not unfre-

quently to the play in company with that accomplished

critic and dramatist. He was not always or easily
pleased, but his admiration for Fechter's ' Hamlet' was

unbounded.

   He had been first brought into touch with Taylor
during the course of his efforts, eventually successful,
to induce the citizens of Oxford to adopt the Local
Government Act in lieu of their effete sanitary regula-
tions ^ Acland's first introduction to municipal life

dated from his appointment as Lee's Reader in Anatomy,
when he found himself officially required to be a Com-
missioner of Lighting and Paving. What the state
of affairs was at that time and for years after, under the
rule of the city authorities, has appeared sufficiently in
the story of the cholera outbreak. Acland has summed

it up in another place in vigorous language :

   The sanitary condition of Oxford and its surroundings was
deplorable. The workhouse was ill-placed and ill-managed ;
human excreta which entered the river from the lowest parts
of the suburbs were pumped unfiltered through the town.

   ^ On Acland's death the harmonium was given to the Church of
St. IVIary Magdalene, the parish in which the Broad Street house
stood.

   ^ Tom Taylor was an official in what is now the Local Govern-
ment Board, but was then the Local Government Act Office,
t874] town and gown  363

The alleys were miserable. There was no attempt at pro-
tecting the Thames from the sewage, such as there was, of
the houses; the Commissioners had no adequate power to
raise money on loan so as to remedy systematically the
frightful evils. Such was the force of custom and of aversion
to change that when it was proposed to abolish the Paving
Acts, as they were called, and to place the town under the
improved Imperial Laws, the motion was not even seconded,
though at a subsequent meeting of the Commissioners it was
carried by ten to one.

   In the same speech, delivered at a dinner of the
Oxford Corporation in 1892, Acland was able to point
to a veritable revolution along the whole line. A new
Union House had been built, the Thames had been

purified of its turbid filth, a system of drainage had
been constructed in accordance with the most modern

requirements and in conjunction with a sewage farm.

A new and constant water-supply was served from

admirably equipped waterworks, and the arrangements
for the care of the masses in sickness had been altered
out of all recognition. The Radcliffe Infirmary had

been extended and improved in every direction, a

hospital for infectious diseases had been constructed,
a competent officer of health appointed, and a complete
system of nursing the sick -- poor and rich alike-- had

been established. With regard to all these great
changes Acland was well entitled to say pars 7nagna
fni. As a member of the Board of Guardians and
the Board of Health he had been persistent and un-
tiring, as Physician to the Radcliffe he had, in the
face of much opposition, active and passive, carried

 most necessary reforms, and his practical knowledge
of sanitation had always been at the service of the

 Corporation w^ith regard to drainage and water-supply.
 He took a leading part in abolishing the old pauper-
 izing doles, in obtaining a new Charity Scheme, and
 in organizing out of the old Cutler Boulter Founda-

 tion a new Provident Dispensary, through which the
364  HENRY ACLAND  [1865-

working-classes were visited and treated in their own

homes. How directly the improved system of nursing
was due to him and to Mrs. Acland will appear in

the next chapter.
   Much of this work, during the earlier stages at any

rate, was done in the face of great discouragement.
'The longer I live here,' he wrote in 1866, 'the more
unbearable it seems to me. The Dean and I have both
been pointedly told that whatever he or I proposed at
the Local Board would have been equally and violently
opposed.' The vested interests and the forces of igno-
rance and prejudice would have been too strong for
Acland, even with Liddell to help him, but for the fact

that earnest and enlightened men were gradually re-

placing the do-nothings and the busybodies both in
the City and the University : the difficult thing was

to organize them and to promote harmonious working

between townsman and gownsman.

   Here was Acland's great opportunity. In his twofold
capacity of Physician and Professor he belonged to both
parties. The antagonism between the Corporation and

the University authorities was traditional and apparently
irremediable. As late as 1858 we find the Mayor of
Oxford declining to take the oath to observe the
privileges of the University, and Convocation first
authorizing the Vice-Chancellor to proceed against that
official with all the rigours of the law, and then em-
powering him to abstain from opposing the Bill intended

to relieve the Mayor (Mr. Isaac Grubb) from the obliga-
tion to which he had conceived an objection. The
causes of the antagonism lay deep down in academical
history, but the mere existence of an hnperimn in im-

perio is enough to account for it. To-day it is almost a
thing of the past ; the University is represented in every
municipal institution, it contributes its quota of mem-
bers to the Town Council, and its most distinguished

sons do not shrink from their share in the government

of the city. In this great process of union and reconcilia-
i874]  TOWN AND GOWN  365

tion, culminating in the Act of \1889 Acland was the

pioneer. He threw himself vigorously into all that
concerned the health and welfare of Oxford, he attended

meetings, served on committees, gave lectures ^, was
insistent -- in season and out of season --in preaching
his unpopular gospel of cleanliness and sanitation. On
the Local Board he, and Rolleston after him, discharged
without remuneration the duties of a permanent Health

Officer. Nor was he neglectful of purely social agencies.
In evening parties at his own house, in more ceremonial
soirees at the Radcliffe Camera and the New Museum,

he knew no distinction between town and gown. The

progressive and pubhc-spirited element among the
Oxford tradesfolk were brought face to face with all

the punctilious elements in academical society. By
degrees the barriers were broken down. Other Dons
beside Liddell and Acland and Neate were found to
interest themselves in the details of civic work. Rol-

leston and Thorold Rogers, and in a later generation
T. H. Green and Humphrey Ward, followed in the same
path. But no member of the University ever came to
occupy the position in the estimation and affection of the
townsfolk which Acland ultimately filled. During the
later years of his life his influence was supreme ; his

tact, his urbanity, his commanding presence, and the
remembrance of his self-denying life and his services
in the past, placed him without a rival in the hearts of

his fellow citizens.

   ^ The Local Government Board's Provisional Orders Confirma-
tion Act (Oxford).

   ^ It was Alderman Sadler who, as far back as 1847, had reproach-

fully alluded to the very little practical interest taken in the town
by the members of the University. Acland's lectures were the
outcome. In after years he and the members of his family used
to give a free entertainment of music, reading, and recitations in
the Town Hall on Boxing night, and Acland would read to an
appreciative audience his favourite selections from Tennyson and

Longfellow, delighting especially in Hiaivatha.
              CHAPTER XIII

PRINCE LEOPOLD -- RUSKIN -- DEATH OF
      MRS. ACLAND-- HOME LIFE IN BROAD
       STREET

                                         1872-1878

   In November, 1872, Prince Leopold came up to

Oxford, and was placed, like his eldest brother before

him, under the medical care of Dr. Acland. It was
a task of grave responsibility, for His Royal Highness

had been from his birth an invalid whose health ex-
cluded him from the sports and recreations of boyhood.

How manfully and nobly he contended with these
physical disadvantages, how diligently he strove to
follow his father's example in the encouragement of
every form of culture, is known to all. His death
at the early age of thirty-one closed a career of no

ordinary promise, and by it the country was deprived
of the most accomplished of its princes.

   During his residence, which extended, with breaks,
over a period of nearly four years. Prince Leopold
lived at Wykeham House near St. Giles's, with Mr. (now
Sir R. H.) Collins, whose pupil he had been for some
time past. As far as his health would allow he entered
into the life of the place and attended with assiduity the
lectures of the Professors, and occasionally he was
permitted to take part in public functions under close
restrictions and precautions against exposure or over-
fatigue. These years, it may well be believed, were

among the happiest of his too short life. * I am looking

forward,' he once wrote to Dr. Acland, ' with the greatest
PRINCE LEOPOLD .  367

pleasure to my return to Oxford this day week ; I wish
there were no vacations, for myself at least ! ' Like all
who were brought into contact with the Prince, Acland

had been attracted by his lovable and unselfish dis-

position, and he had recognized what great opportuni-

ties for influencing the public mind were in the grasp
of this delicate student. Every encouragement and

assistance in his power were placed at the Prince's
disposal, and in the theatre and laboratories of the
Museum he was able to give his Royal pupil some
insight into the new world which modern science was
opening out before the eyes of the learner.

    But it was a terribly anxious time. In the summer
term of 1874 the Prince had a bad illness, and for
weeks was kept a prisoner to the house. In a letter

written as soon as he was able to be removed to

 Windsor he expressed in touching terms his love for
 * dear Oxford,' and his gratitude for ' the great and
 unceasing care' of his physician. Sir Robert Collins,
 between whom and Dr. Acland there had sprung up

 a warm mutual friendship, wrote at the same time :

 * I don't know what we should have done without you
 at Oxford the whole time the Prince has been there, but
 especially have I reason to be grateful to you for all you

 have done during the last two months.'
    There were worse things to come. In December,

 1875, on the Prince's return to Osborne for Christmas,
 symptoms of typhoid, a disease so fatal to his family,

 declared themselves, and for some weeks he was in a

 very critical state. The cause of his illness was found

 \in the drainage at Wykeham House but this unlucky

   ^ When Acland made the preliminary inspection of Wykeham
House-- which had been taken for the Prince on his suggestion-
he would not allow the drains to be connected with the main

drainage of the town, knowing only too well the susceptibility of the
members of the Royal Family to typhoid. During the Prince's
absence for the Long Vacation the connexion was effected without
Acland's knowledge or authority, and to this he always attributed
the Prince's malady.
368  HENRY ACLAND  [1872-

occurrence was not allowed to put an end to the resi-

dence in Oxford, which had come to be one of the

bright spots in a life which had so much to cloud it.
Prince Leopold returned to the University and did not

finally ' go down ' till the end of 1876. Nor did his
formal departure from Oxford sever his connexion
with the place. He had been, on Acland's initiative,
invited to become one of the Radcliflfe Trustees, an offer
which he gladly accepted. In this capacity he came
down in June, 1877, to the opening of the new chil-
dren's wards at the Radcliflfe Infirmary. This children's
hospital was the gift of Mrs. Combe, and it fell to the
lot of the Prince to move a vote of thanks to the Chair-
man and Treasurer. For the purpose a statement had
been prepared by the Committee in illustration of the

changes which thirty 3^ears had brought to pass in an
institution which, when Acland's connexion with it first

began, was irreconcilably behind even the limited ideas

of those days. The services of Sir Douglas Galton
and Sir Robert Rawlinson in the sanitary improvement
of the Infirmary were acknowledged by name, but there

could have been few present that day who were

ignorant as to the part played by the untiring zeal and
the knowledge and experience of the Regius Professor
of Medicine.

   Among the lectures which the Prince had attended
with most enjoyment was the remarkable course which
Ruskin delivered as Slade Professor of Fine Arts. For

some years there had been a strong desire on the part
of his friends and admirers to utilize at Oxford the

great gifts which he was lavishing elsewhere with
somewhat reckless profusion. Ruskin himself was

nothing loth, and he seized with something like avidity
upon the proposal made by Acland and others to bring
him in for the vacant Professorship of Poetry. The
project fell through, to Ruskin's disappointment, and

it was then suggested that he might like to be appointed

one of the Curators of the University Art Galleries.
1878]            RUSKIN                       369

His acceptance of the offer, which would have neces-
sitated the resignation either of Dean Liddell or
Acland -- for there was no vacancy --was not couched

in very promising terms :

My dear Acland,          September 22, 1867.

      Not in despair, nor in sick sloth, but in a deep, though
stern hope, and in reserve of what strength is in me, I refuse

to talk about art. The English nation is fast, and with furious
acceleration, becoming a mob to whom it will be impossible
to talk about anything. Read the last seven verses of yester-
day's first lesson. They are literally and in every syllable
true of England, and the weapons with which such evil may

be stayed before 'the end thereof are not camel's hair pencils.

Camel's hair raiment might do something.
   You have ' no idea of folded hands, while there is hope of

safety.' Nor I ; but if the Tyne had gone off into deep water

with a leak gaining on her, you would not have called the
carpenters to paint her sides. Nevertheless, we will keep

our cabins tidy to the last (though, by the way, if you and

Richmond had not had your heads full of Raphael chalk

scratches and Roman plaster patches, and had worked with
wider sight, you might have had the Peter Martyr in the

National Gallery here instead of in Hades) and, if you are
tired of that curatorship and think that I can be of any use,

I will do the best I can. But in no phrase of politeness
I tell you that you are fitter for the place than I, and, working

with your old friend the Dean, and entering into the fruit
of your efforts for many years, you had much better stay as
you are, if you are not weary.

                                                 Ever affectionately yours,

                                                   J. RUSKIN.

Liddell may well be pardoned in writing :

My dear a.

      Are you positively certain that Ruskin would like to be
Curator of the Galleries? Have you it in writing? And

can his inclination or wish in August be depended upon in

November ?       Bb
370      HENRY ACLAND                                                     [1872-

   This scheme also came to nothing, but in 1869 under
the will of the late Mr. Felix Slade a Professorship
of Fine Art was founded and endowed, and by general

consent Ruskin was designated as the first occupant
of the chair. The Rev. George Butler, then head master
of Liverpool School, who had been asked to stand,
wrote to Acland in the following strain :

Verily I think Oxford must be hard put to it to look to

me to supply such a need. Surely Ruskin or Charles Newton

or H. Hunt would be better representatives of Art than I could
hope to be. You are likely to know, and I therefore ask you

frankly. Ruskin seems to me of all men most pointed out,

monstratus fatis, for          he will only undertake the labour.
     I

                          it,

                        if
But when saw him in the winter, he told me he had resolved

to give up talking and writing and use his hands in preserving

from oblivion some of the noble frescoes of Tintoret, &c., which

are falling into decay and perishing by other causes.                     is    had

                                                                             I
some talk at Easter with Richmond, and he agreed with me

that Ruskin ought to be urged to stand, and there no one

who could put before him m.ore forcibly than you.
     it

Ruskin's nolo episcopari was overcome, and on

August ID, 1867, he was chosen unanimously. The

electors were Liddell, Acland, and the late Canon

Rawlinson (then Professor of Ancient History) as Cura-
tors of the University Galleries Bodley's Librarian,
the Rev. H. O. Coxe; the President of the Royal Aca-
     a

                                                           ;

                                                    a

                                                                       ;

                                              I;
demy, Sir Francis Grant the President of University

College, London, Mr. Grote the historian and Mr. Fisher,

one of the executors of the will. The inaugural lecture

was dehvered in February, 1870.                                           have no wish

to tell thrice-told tale, and goodly proportion of

those who sat under the Professor still survive. The

lectures were an epoch in many lives and their sound has

gone out into many lands. The seed found good and

fruitful soil in many an unsuspected and unpromising

quarter, and the immediate sensation created by them

was without precedent          in  Oxford. Long before the

appointed hour the Lecture-room in the Taylorian was
1878]  RUSKIN  371

crowded to suffocation, and it needed all Acland's

strength and persistency to force his way to the table
and beg the audience to adjourn with the Lecturer to

the Sheldonian Theatre. Nor was the excitement a

passing feature : the attendance scarcely seemed to
wane or diminish, and Ruskin grew to resent, avowedly

at any rate, the presence of the throngs of ladies. He

had come, he always insisted, to spread the light among
the members of the University, and its beams were
caught by the bright toilets and luxuriant head-dresses
of his fair auditors.

   During his first two years of office Ruskin lived as
Acland's guest in Broad Street whenever he was in

Oxford. Afterwards he went into rooms at Corpus,
which had done credit to itself by electing him to an

Honorary Fellowship. Of his intention to bring real

teaching within the reach of the undergraduates he
gave practical proof by a munificent gift of ^^"5,000 to
endow a Master of Drawing, and his generosity in the
gift and loan of his art treasures knew no bounds. The
circumstances attending the gift to the Drawing School
are characteristic. Ruskin was ill at Matlock when the
affairs of the projected School of Art were still unsettled,
and Acland had gone there to see him. The two had
much talk on the subject, and one day Ruskin, who was

weak and suffering, and confined to his bed, suddenly

drew out a cheque for .^^5,000 from under his pillow
and said, 'There, Henry, that's to endow the Master.'
Acland was naturally inclined to demur at such an un-

 conventional transaction, but his patient's health forbade
 excitement or argument, and the cheque was taken and
 invested in the name of the Trustees.

    The incident connected with Ruskin's lectures which

 made most noise at the time, and is now scarcely re-

 membered, was the amateur road-making experiment at
 Hincksey. In connexion with this new departure in
. applied philosophy, ridicule, of a somewhat clumsy order,
 was only to be expected. But an ill-natured attack in a

                                               Bb2
372   HENRY ACLAND  [1872-

London paper excited Acland's indignation and drew
from him a letter to the Times.

gjj^  Oxford, May 19, 1874.

      An Oxford correspondent has addressed to one of your

evening contemporaries an attack on the Undergraduates who
have been induced by Mr. Ruskin to take to ' digging at

Hincksey/ Will you allow a few lines' space to another

Oxford correspondent who feels sure that neither Mr. Ruskin,

who is now in Italy, nor the students who get their daily

exercise at Hincksey will notice the sneers. Surely in an age
of Liberty and of Philanthropy, well-meaning men might be
allowed to mend the muddy approaches of some humble

dwellings of the poor without being held up to the public as
persons meet only for the neighbouring Asylum. Is it so,

that the principles on which Mr. Ruskin and these youths

are acting are insane ?

   Mr. Ruskin, a man of no narrow sympathies, has known

Oxford for forty years. He is as interested in the greatness
of the educated youth of England as he is in the well-doing
of the poor. He is loved b3^ both. To the high-spirited

youth of Oxford he has said, 'Will, then, none of you out of

your abundance, the abundance of your strength and of your
leisure, do anything for the poor? The poor ye have always

with you. Drain a single cottage ; repair a single village
by-way ; make good a single garden wall ; make pleasant
with flowers one widow's plot, and your muscles will be more
strong and your hearts more light than had all your leisure

hours been spent in costly games, or yet more hurtful amuse-
ments.' Is he wrong? Are the hearty kindly men who
obeyed him wrong ? Are they likely to be worse Englishmen
for their pleasant love of a respected teacher, and their cheery,

almost playful help to agricultural labourers? Will society

be worse that a body of steady students with a kindly enthu-
siasm left their wonted games to lessen the sadness of the

world and make more bright some English cottage homes?
To say nothing of the good of humane and hearty occupation

to the men themselves, are we sure that some men such as

these when wisely directed will not be among the best safe-
guards in the heaving restless social fabric of modern life ?
1878]  RUSKIN  373

Is Mr. Ruskin impractical in thus harmlessly evoking the
sympathies and energies of the unspoiled minds about him ?

                                       Your obedient servant,
                                                   Henry W. Acland.

   That this letter was in accord with the general
sentiment was shown by a poem which appeared a fort-
night later in Punch, and from which the following
stanzas may be quoted :

      Acland writes to defend John Ruskin,
         Who an undergraduate team hath made,

      For once, from May-term morn to dusk, in
          Hincksey soil to set working spade.

      So very Utopian ! so Quixotic !
          Such is the euphemistic phrase,

       Equivalent to idiotic,

         For Athletes guided to useful ways.

       Pity we have for the man who thinks he
          Proves Ruskin fool for work like this.

      Why shouldn't young Oxford lend hands to Hincksey,
          Though Doctrinaires may take it amiss?

      Careless wholly of critic's menace,
          Scholars of Ruskin, to him be true,

      The truth he has writ in the Stones of Venice
          May be taught by the Stones of Hincksey too,

   Ruskin's term of office expired in 1873, but he was
re-elected, and again in 1876. At the close of the third
triennial period, in 1879, he resigned; indeed the
state of his health for more than a year past had
rendered the discharge of his duties impossible. And
while his friend lay under the dark shadow of a dis-
tressing illness, Acland himself was passing through
a time of sorest sorrow.

   Little has been said during these chapters of Acland's
family, the seven sons and the daughter who had been
born to him ; a high-spirited and merry party, but with
374  HENRY ACLAND  [1872-

a share of their father's seriousness and with unmistak-
able signs of the Acland temperament. The boys had
grown into young men and were beginning to make
their way in the world. The eldest son, now Rear-
Admiral Sir William Acland, had already given promise

of a distinguished career; another son, the present
Dr. Theodore Acland, was making a name for himself
in his father's profession ; there was one at Wool-
wich, and another eating dinners and keeping terms
at the Temple. As time went on the occasions on
which the whole family could be assembled together
under the roof of the Broad Street home became fewer

and fewer, but there is in existence a photograph of
the ' Acland eight,' * easied up ' by the Christ Church
meadows. It represents an old-fashioned racing-boat
with the Doctor at stroke and his seven sons at the
other thwarts; Mrs. Acland sits in the steersman's

place, and a seat in the extreme stern has been con-
trived for Miss Acland.

   The first definite break in the circle was made in
November, 1876, when Herbert, the fourth son, left
England for Ceylon with the intention of becoming a

coffee-planter. A touching letter from his mother,

placed at the bottom of his box to be read by him on
the voyage, has been printed elsewhere ^ In June
of the following year when Oxford was at its brightest,
and the festivities of the summer term were in full

swing, his parents received the disquieting news that

he was suffering from typhoid fever. Some weeks had
necessarily elapsed since the date of the letter, and
Dr. Acland telegraphed for particulars. The answer
came back that his son was dead. What that blow must

have been to the household no words can say. Herbert
Acland had been an exceptionally attractive boy; at
Charterhouse he was the idol of the school. ' There was
not one of us,' I have heard it said, 'who would not

^ A Sketch of the Life and Character of Sarah Acland^ page 99.
                                 'fo.

',^^:./iu^ /Jy::
                               MRS. HENRY ACLAND

                                  DRAWING BY W. E. MILLER, 1876
1878]  DEATH OF MRS. ACLAND                      375

have gone across Europe to him if he had held up a

finger.' And the thought of his death, almost alone,

in the distant Indian island, came as an indescribable

shock to his schoolfellows and friends. To Mrs. Acland

it was a death warrant. ' When I heard the news,' says
                                  first words were, " This
Mr.   Charles    Pearson,   * my
will  kill Mrs.  Acland "  ; and  the prediction, alas ! came

true.' 'Those who had ever seen her in her home,'

adds the same writer, ' knew how the bands that united

her to her husband and children were interwoven

with the very heart-strings.' Some little time before

this her health had shown signs of failing, and from the
effect of her son's death she never rallied. All through

the year that followed she grew worse, and in the

summer of 1878 it became clear that there was no hope
of recovery, but no one seems to have suspected how

near was the end. She accompanied her husband and

daughter on a visit to the shores of the Baltic, staying at

Dusternbrook and Elsinore, and she bore the journey

home without apparent ill-effect ; but she took to her

bed on September 14, and on October 25 she passed

peacefully away.

  'All through her illness,' writes her daughter, 'she

was exactly like herself -- bright, patient, uncomplaining,

unwavering in her faith that all was ordered for the

best.' On October 29, 1878, she was laid to rest in the

Holywell Cemetery, carried to the grave by her six sur-
viving sons. Of Acland's grief I cannot speak. ' The
rest is silence ' ; and there are sorrows from which it is

a profanation to draw the veil. Nor will I attempt to
use words of my own about Mrs. Acland ^ I will ven-

ture to print three of the countless letters in which

those who had known her strove to impart comfort;

the first, it will be noticed, was written before Dr. Pusey

had realized the hopeless nature of the malady.

  * A beautiful appreciation of Mrs. Acland's character from the

pen of Dean Church, who knew her well, is to be found in the

Guardian for November 6, 1878.
376  HENRY ACLAND            [1872-

     SouTH Hermitage, Ascot Priory, Bracknell.

My dear Miss Acland,         September 23.

     I am grieved to hear of your father's and your anxiety
about your dear good mother. I trust that it may please

God to dissipate your anxieties. She has indeed done a good

work in the education of you all, in teaching you all to love

God and guiding you on the way. She has done, too, much
good in drawing some of our fleeting generations of young
men to God and to good. The insensible influence of all

who love God is far more than any which they are aware

of; and especially of women. They know it not ; God hides

it from them and keeps it in store for them for the Great Day.

God bless and comfort you in your anxiety and comfort

her too, as He will.  Yours affectionately,

                             E. B. PUSEY.

   To these words should, I think, be added an extract
from a letter written by Dr. Pusey, some time later, to
Acland himself.

   Love will be everything : for God is love and he who has
most capacity for love will be most enlarged to contain God.

I suppose that this was the secret of your dear good wife's

peace amid all that, in this place, especially, must have been
so contrary to her early habits of simple faith. She must
have been saddened to see young men drifting about hither
and thither while she herself 'knew in Whom she had believed.'

I wish now that I had known more of the inner workings of

that mind of beautiful simple faith and love. But there was
no reason why she should disclose them. She needed no
aid, except what God habitually ministered to her in her daily
round of devotion and faith and love.

     (From Lady Salisbury.)

My dear Dr. Acland,   Hemsted Park, Staplehurst.

     Many thanks for the book. It will be very precious to

me ; I have read those verses ^ over and over again already.

^ The Choir Invisible, by George Eliot, lines which Mrs, Acland
1878]    DEATH OF MRS. ACLAND                     377

God bless you and comfort you, my dear old friend. Only
those who knew her as I did, I may say, all my life, know

how precious is the treasure laid up for you.

                                                 Yours affectionately,
                                                            G. Salisbury.

         (From H. R. H. Prince Leopold.)

My dear                     Palais de Bruxelles,  October 29, 1878.
         Dr. Acland,
I found your letter on my arrival here, last night, and
I need not tell you what grief I felt at the contents of it.
I have been travelling during the last month on the continent,

and so had seen no notice of the terrible blow that you have

received.

  You know well how heartily and affectionately I sym-

pathize with you in your sad bereavement. To know dear

Mrs. Acland was to honour and reverence her, for her many

acts of kindness, for the brightness she shed on her house,

and for her constant sympathy with all those who suffered

mentally as well as physically. I will write no more, I only

wanted you to know how much you are in my thoughts at

this sad time. I return to England the day after to-morrow

and shall be at Buckingham Palace for some time.

With heartiest sympathy to your daughter.

         Believe me, dear Dr. Acland,

         Yours sincerely and affectionately,
                                Leopold.

   It ought to be added that one of the earliest messages
of sympathy to the bereaved husband came from the
Prince of Wales, begging him to come and see him.
That interview and the terms in which His Royal
Highness spoke of her whom he had lost, left an

ineffaceable impression on Acland's memory.
   Mrs. Acland's death was to a certain extent the break

up of the old life in Broad Street, though husband and

children strove to maintain as far as possible the wise

and tender traditions that hung around the home. It

had committed to heart and repeated to her husband on her death-
bed.
378  HENRY ACLAND  [1872-

was still a centre of hospitality and of strenuous work ;
a place where the most interesting elements of Oxford

and London society made a meeting-ground. Miss
Acland was her father's right hand in keeping house

and helping him to receive his guests ; but it could

never be quite the same, and before the scene finally

shifts I think the following sketch of the household and
its surroundings, with which I have been most kindly
furnished by a member of the family, will be of interest
not only in itself but as throwing a flood of light on

much that has gone before.

   ' It is very difficult to think of the family life in Broad
Street without one figure rising above all others -- that
of the devoted wife and mother around whom everything

centred. She was a most remarkable woman in every
way. Coming of a grave and serious stock, but herself
having a deep vein of fun and humour, she was always

ready to join in all that was going on, serious or gay.
Musical, and with a fine contralto voice-- well read ^--·

trained by her eldest brother, Mr. William Cotton, in
subjects very unusual for a woman of her day--she was
a Greek and Latin scholar, knew French, German, and

Italian, as well as a little Spanish, Dutch, and Norwegian.
On one occasion in Norway she was mistaken for
the Norwegian landlady, and to her great amusement
accosted by some travellers in Norwegian.

   * Calm, wise in judgement, industrious, and cultivated,
she was a most fit companion for Dr. Acland with his

restless energy, his nervous temperament, and his
artistic nature. Unselfish and forgetful of herself to a

degree that was almost harmful to those about her, the

description which seems most nearly to portray her is
the Sonetto out of Dante's Vita Niwva :

   ^ It is remarkable that as far back as 1861 Mrs. Acland was an
appreciator of Fitzgerald's Omar Khayyam. Dr. Stokes of Dublin

procured for her in that year what he says was the last copy of it
in the pubUsher's hands.
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 379

          "Tanto gentile e tanto onesta pare
               La donna mia, quand' ella altrui saluta,
                Ch' ogni lingua divien tremando, muta,
               E gli occhi non 1' ardiscon di guardare.

             Ella sen va, sentendosi laudare,

                  Benignamente d' umilta vestuta;

               E par, che sia una cosa venuta
                 Di Cielo in terra, a miracol mostrare."

   ' The life in Broad Street was very simple. Breakfast
at 8 o'clock, to which those who wished to talk to
Dr. Acland often came uninvited, was always pre-
ceded by family prayers -- no matter who was present.
Dr. Acland would then see patients, or work with the
assistants of the Radcliffe Library, who used to come
to him until the Library opened. He went out at ten,
either to the Radcliffe Infirmary or to consultations
or to the Museum. In the early days of his practice
he also saw patients at home from two to four, but when
they became so numerous that he was unable to attend
to them all in that time, he gave them the additional
hour between one and two.

  ' If the patients had come in from the country. Dr.

Acland would constantly bring them into the dining-
room to partake of the simple midday meal ^ or dispatch
them, for the same purpose, to the servants' hall, as the
case might require, and he would even give away or share
the dinner which Mrs. Acland used to put aside for him
on a hot-water-plate when he was delayed or detained.
Whilst he was seeing his patients, the old coachman,
Whitlock --who drove him so many miles before the
branch railway lines were as numerous as they are to-
day--would sit in the servants' hall waiting for country

   ^ Bishop King of Lincoln, speaking at an Oxford meeting, once
narrated his first meeting with Mrs. Acland. He had gone to her
husband, as an undergraduate, for some small ailment, and when
the consultation was apparently over his physician said, ' There

is one thing you must do instantly, you must come into the next
room and dine with us.'
380        HENRY ACLAND               [1872-

orders. In the summer, and sometimes in the winter,

Mrs. Acland used to go these country journeys with

him, sitting in some httle wayside inn whilst he went

to the patient's house, occupying herself with her
book or work. In later days, when the children were

at school or absent from Oxford, she would choose

these occasions for writing long letters to them. The

evening meal was in consequence of these long drives

a very irregular one, and consisted of a sort of high

tea. Dr. Acland used to be very fond of quoting a re-

mark made to him by Sir Henry Thompson, to whom
he had been recounting his way of life : " It strikes me

that you never dine, you only feed."

' After supper he would often get up and go and sit

at the harmonium and improvise. He had a great

love and appreciation of music, but no sense of time,

and he used to wander on over the keys, bringing in

airs that he had learnt in Italy, Germany, and else-

where, and occasionally singing in accompaniment. He

would then come up to the drawing-room carrying an

armful of books, and would sit and write letters, which

he always used to throw on the floor for fear that they

should be mislaid. Meanwhile there would be music,

or Mrs. Acland would read aloud, and it rarely seemed

to disturb him. Prayers at ten o'clock finished the day

for the household, but Dr. Acland would often write on

until just before twelve, when he would go down to the

General Post Office with a number of letters, meeting

many other professors and friends, bent on the same

errand. He always brought up his fees to Mrs. Acland

in the evening, and used to pour them into her lap,

or if she was writing, place them in a httle pile on
her davenport by her side. All Sunday fees were

given away, and placed in a separate bag with a cross

upon  it.  Mrs. Acland not only kept all his accounts,

but wrote his cheques, paid his bills, and managed his

stables as well as his household. She chose schools

for the children, and tutors and colleges for the sons
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 381

as they grew up, and attended to all the arrangements
necessary for a large family without giving him any
trouble beyond asking for his approval. He, on his

side, never made any arrangement, however trivial,

without consulting her.
   ' Life was in those days much simpler than now.

Mrs. Acland often used to tell in later years that when

they married they could count up all the wedding
presents which they received on the fingers of their
two hands. Professor Max Miiller, when he first came

to Oxford, in 1848, would often spend the evenings in
Broad Street, and he used to describe how he would
find Mrs. Acland with one candle, and a basket of
mending by her side, sitting at work and waiting until
her husband came in. The house was never regularly
furnished throughout, but a piece of furniture bought,
or a room made habitable, as circumstances required.

In the same way alterations and improvements were
constantly in progress, and Dr. Acland was never
happier than when he had workmen about; for

many years a carpenter named Slatter seemed to be
always about the house, until he was turned out by
Mrs. Acland-- only to re-appear very shortly on another

job. All the improvements were said to be made for

Mrs. Acland's comfort or convenience, and she always
accepted the compliment " because it made him happy."

   ' The days being thus extremely full and busy it was
impossible for Dr. Acland to see very much of the
children, except on those rare occasions when he would
snatch a holiday in celebration of a birthday, and picnic
in Wytham or take tea down the river. He used to
row himself in a skiff whilst Mrs. Acland and the
children went in a large and suitable boat. On one
of these expeditions an undergraduate in a tub ran

into him and upset his frail craft, and he had to swim

ashore. It was a time when few if any of the pro-
fessors would have thought of rowing themselves on

the river.
382       HENRY ACLAND                                [1872-

   ' After the death of his brother Arthur Troyte one of
the latter's daughters came to Broad Street.

  When I went to stay with your dear parents first in 1856
(she writes) I was just over twenty and fresh from an ex-

tremely quiet country Hfe, and the sudden plunge into such

a centre of learning and love of all forms of knowledge was

in itself an inspiration. There was never a meal where the
interest of the conversation did not turn on something deep --

occasionally, of course, patriotic and philanthropic, but never
\trivial
          The whole of the life inside the home seems to me

to have been a wonderful mixture of perfection and ease.

I do not mean taking ease, but making easy, no fuss -- no

friction --whatever your mother saw was right to be done she

did well, and he always approved and admired. The children

were never in the way, never neglected, always considered,

but never allowed to think themselves of importance.

'The children came down to breakfast and to early

dinner, but were told that they were to be seen and

not heard, and they were not allowed to ask for any-

thing. This led to an amusing incident, when one

day one of the little boys whose wants had during

some interesting discussion been overlooked, pushed

his empty plate into  the middle  "of  the  table, exclaiming,
                      some salt?             hospitable round
" May I please have                    The

table was often too small for all the party, and some of

the children would be sent to a small table placed for

them in the porch outside the dining-room window.

All sorts of people used to drop in to luncheon, and

were always made welcome, especially on the days

when the Ewelme Trustees held their meetings in

Broad Street. The house was rarely without some

guest or other beneath its roof-- the parents or friends
of undergraduates who were ill in college -- any one who
needed help in any way -- old Oxford men who wanted
to come up for some college gaudy or meeting --all

  ^ 'With all this interesting and varied  talk,' adds another  in-
formant, 'there never was any gossip,      no "society talk,"   no
mention of cards or betting.'
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 383

knew that they were at liberty to ask for a bed. Some-

times Dr. Acland would invite some examiners to stay,
and then forget all about it -- but when they arrived
they always found a welcome. At the time of the

Medical Examinations all the examiners would be
bidden to stay in the house -- though when the number

was doubled some beds had to be obtained in college

or at an hotel. Often an undergraduate overworked

before some examination or with some temporary or

threatened illness was brought by Dr. Acland in his

carriage to the house, and he would run upstairs and
usanyw, el"l Wainfide,neIedshavyeourbrocaurgeht"     so-and-so --he is very
                                                  ;  and then he would be

off again.

'Saturdays in term would constantly bring parents,

brothers, or sisters, of undergraduates to stay until

Monday, or old friends from London who were glad

to get a day out of town. Mr. Ruskin when he was

first made Slade Professor lived during several terms

in the house as one of the family. He used to say

that he could write unusually well there in his room,
a quiet one at the back, as Mrs. Acland -- " Mama" he
called her -- made him so extremely comfortable, and

he had nothing to disturb him, for he could not waste

his time looking out of the windows, since the outlook

over the blank brick wall and the chimney-pots was

the ugliest that he had ever seen.

'There were not only English visitors. There

would sometimes be Americans, such as Dr. Billings,

Deputy Surgeon General of the United States Arm}' ;
Dr. Justin Winsor, Librarian of Harvard College; the
Shattucks of Boston, and Dr. Gross of Philadelphia;

and foreigners from many lands, some bent on business,

some on pleasure. Occasionally also there came un-
usual guests from other countries -- Oron-hya-tekha, the

Mohawk chief with his mocassins and his feathers;

Jacob Es-Shellaby the Samaritan, who arrived on
Sunday and said that he had come to stay --which he
384  HENRY ACLAND  [1872-

did. Then there was Mr. Masujima, the courteous

Japanese gentleman who arranged a tea-party to show
how they made tea in Japan; Mr. Vigfusson, the
Icelandic scholar, with his quaint face and weird Sagas;
Mr. Holmar, the leader of the Tyrolese singers, who,

having come once with his party to sing to an invalid

in the house, came afterwards to prayers and breakfast

whenever the party was in Oxford, without invitation.
These amongst many others sought and found a

welcome.

   ' In the early days, whilst still Physician at the
Radcliffe Infirmary, he would go accompanied by his
wife and children for Morning Service to the Infirmary
Chapel, where Mrs. Acland would play the harmonium.
In the afternoon he went to the Cathedral, never
omitting a long visit to Dr. Pusey in his rooms in
Tom Quad\ and taking tea at the Deanery, where he

was always welcome, and where he used to put on his

surplice. He once told a German Professor who was
going to the Cathedral with him that he considered this
surplice, worn in right of his election to an Honorary

Studentship, to be the highest honour that he had
ever received. After Cathedral he would return to the
Deanery until it was time to go home for high tea.

   * Nephews who were up at College or the sons of
any old friends, or perhaps some undergraduates who
had been ill, would be told to come in when they hked,
at eight o'clock on Sunday, to spend a " home evening,"
on the one condition, made by Mrs. Acland, that they

did not dress, as that, she said, would make it like a

party. Sometimes Dr. Acland would read something

  * 'Your dear father's friendship,* wrote Mrs. Brine to Miss
Acland, 'was one my father valued so specially. His visits on
Sunday were quite looked forward to, they seemed to bring so
much refreshment with them. You knew the keen interest my
father took in all in which Dr. Acland took part, and it was with

a bright smile that I have seen his dear face light up as the time
drew near at which he thought he might come in for his chat --
with the words "Oh, I suppose Acland will soon be here." *
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 385

that he thought likely to interest his hearers, and talk

about or would, to the great delight of the younger
       ^, it,
                               a

                                        a
ones present, get into discussion with Miss Eleanor

Smith who regularly spent her Sunday evenings for

nearly forty years in Broad Street. On one occasion he

was talking about lately-published translation of the
Imitatio Christi edited by Dr. Liddon, which he liked

very much. He asked Miss Smith                                ! if  she knew it.
"I" No," shesaid. "
          Thomas      ?I    amKseumrppriissed"        at that.      Do you not
read youredition      "   Ia               is                       replied she.
" In what                                    it       " Yes,"
                                                                       " Oh," ex-
                                           read in Latin."it ?
claimed Dr. Acland, " am not up to that " She looked
at him severely over her spectacles, and said, " And, my

dear Sir, may ask what the use of an University
                   I

education?" On her death was found that she had
left him small legacy -- and her little Latin Thomas
is a
Kempis.
    a
'There was almost always during the course of the
      a if
evening singing, and instrumental or concerted music,
                a
and any one continued talking, Dr. Acland would

point up to the text inscribed over the doorway into the
little drawing-room, " Pour not out words where there

Musician." The servants came up to prayers at ten,

and hymn was sung, accompanied by any instruments

which had been used during the evening. Milk,

seltzer-water and lemonade, with cake and biscuits,

were placed in the little drawing-room, and the men
left by eleven o'clock. That they appreciated these

evenings was shown by the regularity with which many
of them came during their residence Oxford
                                                      in

                                                             J.
                                                                                    ^.
^^   The sister of the brilliant Savilian Professor, H. S. Smith.
    '
       Rien n'est sacre pour un sapeur,' and there were under-
graduates who did not always spare the home of the Regius                               a
Professor. Returning late one night, the Doctor found young
gentleman, flown with insolence and wine,' pealing at his door-'
bell. The culprit fled, but Acland gave chase as far as the gate of
Christ Church, through which he saw the fugitive disappear. He

took his name from the porter, and the next morning being

                                           C
                                               C
386  HENRY ACLAND  [1872-

   'The candidates for medical degrees were always

invited to breakfast, and as the numbers increased it
often became a difficulty to know how to seat them.

These breakfasts originated in the custom which, before
the abolition of the tests, required the Regius Professor
of Medicine to go through the Thirty-nine Articles with
his candidates, a condition which Dr. Acland used to

fulfil by reading them at prayers.

   'With all this pressure upon him, and with health

that was never robust, it was not to be wondered at
that he would get overdone ; and the tact with which

Mrs. Acland made him rest, either by actual lying in
bed or by change of thought and scene, was one of
the triumphs of her perfect nature. Sometimes it
would be by breakfast in bed, or not rising till midday,
sometimes by sending him to Marsh Gibbon, to

Mr. Parker's farm, for the night; or for two or three

days to his beloved West Country; or even by train

\to Didcot to write his letters in the waiting-room

Whatever she proposed, he would always try to do,
and he was invariably the better for it. He never

went on any of these excursions or for a long country
journey without bringing her back something. Now
it would be wild roses and brambles from the hedges ;

Sunday, he called, on the way to the cathedral, at his rooms, which,
oddly enough, were those which he had himself occupied as an
undergraduate. The occupant was still in his bedroom, and the
breakfast materials were set down by the fire. Acland gravely
inserted one of his visiting-cards in the spout of the coffee-pot, and

departed. I wish I could add that the undergraduate had pos-

sessed either the courage or the humour to make some amends.

   On another occasion a handsome door-knocker was wrenched

from the door in Broad Street. Years afterwards, when his

eldest son was with his ship in the Piraeus, a young Russian
came up and avowed himself as the author of the outrage.
The knocker, he said, was at the bottom of the Cherwell, but he

hoped to make reparation by sending another, the finest which
could be obtained. The promise remains unfulfilled to this day.

   ^ ' I know hardly any pleasure in life more keen,' he once wrote,
' than being left for two hours in a railway-station undisturbed.'
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 387

again baskets of fruit or eggs. Sometimes an old
chair, table, or clock would appear a day or two later
by carrier -- once it was, to her dismay, an Alderney
calf, which she found tethered in the garden -- some

offering, however slight, he always brought.

   'The home life was so satisfying to him that it was

difficult to persuade him to go into society, but once

started no one ever enjoyed it more, and he was
generally the last to leave his host's house. There
was nothing that delighted him more than giving an
evening party. The planning and arranging it was
a source of real pleasure, and when the evening came,
he always enjo3^ed it so thoroughly himself that his
guests could not but enjoy it too. The memory of

one party stands out very clearly. Mr. W. H. Smith
was at the War Office, and was coming down to spend
Sunday. Dr. Acland invited a large gathering to meet
him. The first guests to be chosen were the principal
Liberals and Radicals in Oxford, because, as he said,
what was the use of asking the Conservatives, who
could easily meet Mr. Smith any time ? The night
came, and all the Liberals were taken up to be intro-
duced to the guest of the evening, who, with his

host, was enjoying himself like a schoolboy out on a

holiday.
   ' Dr. Acland was too restless to like a dinner-party --

indeed in his own house he Very rarely sat still right
through any meal. He always found some excuse to
get up and walk about. Now it would be to fetch a
statuette of Hippocrates if a doctor were present; anon,
if some strong Conservative were among the guests,
he would place a bust or photograph of Mr. Glad-
stone on the table beside him ; or he would want

to look up some point in question, and go out, to
return laden with an armful of books on the subject,

which he would expect his questioner to read. He

was always very sarcastic, as far as in him lay, when
people were what he called "cock-sure" on any point,

                                              cca
388                HENRY ACLAND                                     [1872-

and he would say that he had not sufficient knowledge

or evidence to decide, but would write to So-and-So

and make inquiries. When he was weary he would

often amuse himself by altering the position of the

pictures, kicking off his shoes and climbing up to

unhang and rehang them ; or he would move the

position of all the busts after the family had gone to

bed so that the next morning a complete change in

the appearance of the house had taken place. He

said it was as good as change of air. In his library

he had many and most complete arrangements of a

very methodical kind for sorting and keeping his many-

sided correspondence and pamphlets, but they were

never used, alas! and there was always a hunt for his

papers, which were invariably lost or in the wrong

pigeon-hole or box when they were wanted, in spite

of all the best endeavours of his devoted secretary,

James Ford.
   ' Dr. Acland's loyalty and devotion to the Queen,

the Prince and Princess of Wales, and indeed to all

members of the Royal Family, was intense. He never,

even in  extreme   old  age, let  ththeetoQausteeonf's"  TbhirethdQauyeepnas! s"
without  standing   up  to give

and his one    etxopsreeesse" dMywisQhueteonwa"rdons cethemoerned.  was  that
he might live

' No account of the life in Broad Street would be

complete without some mention of Dr. Acland's rela-

tions to his household. He had a wonderful power

of attracting all those about him. The house was in

every sense a home for them. He rarely parted with

\any servant if he could possibly help it and they were

always his friends -- feeling that they could go to him
in their joys and their sorrows -- sure of his sympathy.

He would take infinite trouble to show or to explain to
them anything which he thought would interest them --

objects under the microscope, the beating of the heart

   ^ He only had two coachmen during over fifty years, both well-
known figures in Oxford.
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 389

in a dead fish, a cast of the brain, or facts illustrating

incidents in the Bible. The assembling for morning

or evening prayers would give him the opportunity

of doing the latter, and many are the subjects on which

he would address them. Sometimes it would be by

showing them his sketches of the Seven Churches,

at another it might be a description of General Gordon

or an explanation of a contour map in his possession

drawn by the General at Jerusalem, or facts about

some other interesting person. The effect produced

was not always what he intended : one maid, who had

known the household for over forty years, on being
asked if she understood what he had been telling
          "I                                    "         them,
replied,      never  thought  of  doing  that      and,   being
                                               !

further questioned, she added, I** look across at the
                     think to myself --You
dear Doctor and I                                  "poor     dear
                     are enjoying yourself!
gentleman, how you

* In another instance the butler gave notice that either

he or the page-boy must leave, as no one could tell

how trying it was to work all day in the pantry with

a boy who believed that the world was created in

periods when he himself believed it was created in

days! One page-boy, who after repeated warnings

was told that he really must leave, was actually in

the omnibus to go to the station, when he jumped out
exclaiming, " If
                  he don't know when he has got          a   good
servant, I know   when I have got a good master               and
                                                          "

                                                         !

he ran back into the house again.

   ' It was most pathetic to see the way in which Dr.

Acland bore the overwhelming sorrow of his wife's

death. His one thought was how to carry on her

interests and her work. The home life, which had
before circled round her, now centred in her memory --

not in any morbid or despairing way, but in trying to

carry out her intentions and her wishes. He always

seemed to feel as if she were near to guide him, and

to the very end of his life he rarely, if ever, undertook
anything fresh without saying, " Do you think your
390     HENRY ACLAND                              [1872-

mother  would have           "  liked  it?"  or,  "What would  your
mother  have done ?

* How deep and lasting was the impression made by

the home in Broad Street on those altogether uncon-

nected with the family may be gathered from some

\notes made by Professor Victor Carus more than fifty

years after he first entered it

   *' Beginning to write a few lines on Sir Henry's 'home life,'it,
I am afraid of becoming too personal in my narrative.
Dr. Acland had asked me to be his assistant in the Christ^
Church Museum, a position which I entered upon in Septem-
ber, 1849. Our intercourse was naturally in the first term

rather formal, and on an official footing. But his kindness,
and the sympathy with which Mrs. Acland bade me welcome

to Oxford, made the house in Broad Street, after a very short
time, a second home to me. The last three months of my
staying in Oxford (from December, 1850, to April, 1851)
Dr. Acland had asked me to give up my rooms in Park Place,

and to live in his house, so that I not only became a member

of his household, but was treated as an old friend, nay, as
one of the family. My recollections of that wonderful time
are of the happiest of all my life. The whole home life in

the house was an ideal one, it was pervaded by the spirit
of kindness, charity, and tender regard and love for every one

belonging to or coming into contact with it.

   "When Dr. Acland came home from his medical visits, he
was cheerful and hearty. Whenever he was in anxiety over
one or other of his patients, or from medical or economic
reasons, Mrs. Acland knew how to comfort him and to cheer

him up. Very often he came into the drawing-room to write
his letters there. At meal-times he was the loveliest host
and master of the family. In the absence of guests our
conversation was chiefly on the Museum, Mrs. Acland follow-

ing with the most lively interest the progress of our work.
But there was scarcely any question of general importance,

religious, social, scientific, philosophical, or political which

was not touched, and sometimes entered upon seriously. In

                             Cf. p. 148, supra.
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 391

the last months we worked very often in the Museum ' after
dinner, sometimes till late in the night, when Mrs. Acland
would come to join us there and give us tea. These were
delightful hours, as the genial and happy natures of Dr. and
Mrs. Acland manifested themselves in the most felicitous way." '

  To the pen of the same member of the family I

am indebted for the following short description of
the home which sheltered Henry Acland for fifty-five
years, and in which all his children grew up.

   The old house in Broad Street was in its way unique. It
consisted of three houses which had been at some former

time joined together. Two of these faced the street, and had

lath-and-plaster fronts ; the third, at the back, was of much

older date, and its walls were over three feet thick.

It was Dr. Acland's amusement and delight to improve this

curious old place until he turned it into a veritable museum,

though it always remained what Mrs. Acland used to call
a
                                        a
                                                                                               a

                                                                                                             it,
rabbit-warren. Entering from Broad Street you came into

a narrow hall with Devonshire settle made of walnut from

the Holnicote Estate, and with panelling as dado on the

walls all made at his old home. This panelling continued

down the long passage which led to the dining-room and

libraries, and the doors of the dining-room were also of

walnut, and made in the same shops. Indeed everything

that Dr. Acland could bring from the old home to the new

was brought he always remained at heart Devonshire man.
a                                   a
                                                a
                                 ;
Out of this narrow hall opened      small room, used as

waiting-room for patients, or for those many people who

came on all sorts of errands to the house. The walls of this

room were completely covered, chiefly with engravings from

portraits, and showed the catholicity of his interests and friend-

ships. Chevalier de Bunsen, John Ruskin, Mr. Gladstone,
Lord Dufferin, Lord Salisbury, Sir Bartle Frere, Ben
Harrison, W. H. Smith, Bishop Jacobson, Professor Max
                                                       ;'
                                                                  '
Muller, Mr. William Froude, Bishop Selwyn of New Zealand

and Lichfield, and many others hanging near together and

on one wall were the engravings of Queen Victoria, the

^  The old anatomical Museum at Christ Church.
392  HENRY ACLAND                                                   [1872-

Prince Consort, and their children, given to him by Her

Majesty.
   Out of this little room opened his small consulting-room

or study, furnished in the same characteristic manner. Passing
down the long passage you came to the first library, designed
by Mr. Woodward. As time went on books accumulated
everywhere on every sort of subject, down the passage and
up the walls, till at last it was all so full that it was a
matter of some difficulty to get in or out at all. Beyond

this room was another, built originally as an inner sanctum
for himself and his wife. When he asked Mrs. Acland what

O'Shea the Irishman should carve on the stone mantelpiece
of the first library, she at once quoted Wordsworth's lines

to the Skylark :

     'Type of the wise who soar but never roam,
      True to the kindred points of Heaven and Home.'

And as time went on and they grew older, a final shelf came

up from the old home and was fixed in the north library with

these words carved on  Rest and be thankful.' In every
   a
                   a

                                         a it,

                                                        '
                                                        a;

                                                                 a
corner not covered with books hung pictures, photographs

and curios. The stairs to the drawing-room were narrow

and steep, but could not be improved owing to the presence

of massive chimney-stack by Dr. Acland's ingenuity,

however, they were made less dark by means of reflectors.
At the top of them stood cast of Alexander Munro's beautiful

figure of Undine stepping on to water-lily. The drawing-

room was low room with huge beam running down it.

Bookcases stood between each window, and there was long
                                                                    'a
low one across the end, the newest books on every sort
of subject being on the octagonal table near the centre.

The walls were so covered with pictures that the paper

was barely visible. Here hung Millais's famous picture of

Mr. John Ruskin, given to Dr. Acland after the death
of the latter's mother, also two sketches of Rossetti's, The
Gathering of the Herbs' and 'The Eating of the Passover,'

a  small Turner, the Acropolis at Athens, and many other

pictures, by George Richmond and his son, and by less dis-

tinguished artists, including many by Dr. Acland himself of

varied scenes in many countries. This room was the centre
HENRY ACLAND'S LIBRARY, BROAD STREET, OXFORD
1878] HOME LIFE IN BROAD STREET 393

of the family life ; when Dr. Acland was at home he was
rarely, unless actually occupied in seeing patients or on
business, far away from Mrs. Acland's side.

   I have left to the last the dining-room and the garden, into

which the former looked ; it was in the oldest part of the
house, with very thick walls and quaint appearance. On
either side of a stone ogival arch cut through the wall was
painted in the pre-Raffaelite days, in red letters, the old college
'grace,' for before and after meat -- Benedtdus Benedicat :
Benedicto Benedicatur. Dr. Acland had at the end of the
room arranged a top light for sculpture, and here hung two
casts, one of the Holy Family by Michael Angelo, the other
of the Nike Apteros ; and in the centre was a bust of Dante.

   The garden ran back as far as Trinity Garden-wall, and
Dr. Acland's originality and ingenuity were constantly exer-
cised in making it as unlike a square bit of town garden
as possible. At the four corners of the little fountain stood
four pillars, removed from the Tower of the Five Orders at
the Bodleian at the time of its restoration. The garden was

constantly used in a fine summer as a second drawing-room,
with a man-of-war's awning overhead to keep off sun and
shower, and on fine hot nights Dr. Acland delighted in having
his simple dinner, or his coffee, out there, and he would sit
and chat until long after dark.

   There was a strong feeling in Oxford that it was
not fitting that such a character as Mrs. Acland's should
be preserved only in the memories and during the

lives of those who had known her personally. A

meeting was held at which it was resolved to raise
a memorial to her, which should take some form of
practical usefulness; and it was agreed that a great
want in Oxford would be met by founding in her
name an Institution for nurses. The sum required
was nearer four thousand pounds than three, but in
the course of a few months the total had been raised.
The subscriptions came in from all quarters, from
members of the Royal Family and the two Archbishops,
394 HENRY ACLAND

down to anonymous subscribers of half a crown and
five shillings. No time was lost in getting to work :
a district nurse was in the field within a few weeks
of the first inception of the project, and in the following
Autumn Term, a year after Mrs. Acland's death, a meeting
was held to announce that the ' Sarah Acland Institution

for Nurses' was in full working order. A house had

been taken at 37 Wellington Square, and placed under
the supervision of Mrs. Rutherford Smith, and a dis-
trict nurse was already visiting and treating the sick
in their own homes.

   The ' Sarah Acland Home ' is now one of the most
flourishing and most valued institutions in Oxford.
So great is its usefulness, so indispensable do its
nurses seem, that one marvels how the town or the
University had existed without it. Dr. Acland had had
some terrible experiences both in the cholera days
and in his general practice. He had known what it
was to spend half the night looking for some one to
sit up with an undergraduate in delirium, and he had
had daily evidence of the misery suffered by rich and
poor ahke in the absence of trained nursing. The
memorial to his wife could have assumed no form more

acceptable to him.
                  CHAPTER XIV

THE 'LOST MEDICAL SCHOOL'-- SIR BARTLE
     FRERE -- VISIT TO AMERICA -- PUSEY
     AND NEWMAN -- THE VIVISECTION
      DEBATES

                                          1878-1884.

   In the Long Vacation of 1879 ^^- Acland, accompanied
by his son Theodore, paid a second visit to the United
States. He was in need of a change, for, apart from

his private sorrows, he had been passing through a
time of much worry and annoyance. In 1877 the
second University Commission had begun its sittings

under the Chairmanship of Lord Selborne. The
Regius Professor of Medicine was an important wit-
ness both as to the scientific studies of Oxford

and the facihties afforded there for medical training.

With regard to the former point he bore testimony to
the great progress which had followed the estabhsh-
ment of the Museum, and the general encouragement
afforded to Natural Science by the University and

College authorities, but he insisted that the existing
number of Professors on the Scientific side was inade-
quate, and that the distribution of subjects among them
needed reform. He was strengthened in his demand for
an increase in the teachers and plant by the recently
published Report of the Commissioners on Scientific and
Technical Education. They admitted that the University
of Oxford had in recent times acted with great liberality
to Natural Science, and they gave unstinted praise to
the existing arrangements of the Museum. But they
added that these, ' in extent of appliances and in com-
pleteness of range even for purely educational purposes,
396  HENRY ACLAND                    [1878-

are at the present moment far outdone by many institu-

tions upon the Continent of Europe/

So far the medical and scientific world was entirely

with Acland, but when he came to expound his views

on Oxford as a ' Medical School,' there was a strong

division of opinion. Amongst some of the younger

generation at Oxford, men who for the most part had

received their early training in the Museum, there was

a growing desire to follow the example of Cambridge,

and attempt to form a complete School of Practical

Medicine, from which, after graduation, the medical

student mJght embark direct on his professional career.

It was hoped that the Commissioners would be brought

to this point of view and report accordingly, and several

of the most distinguished of the younger Oxford teachers

gave evidence on its behalf. But from Acland no sup-

port was to be gained. He admitted that it would be

possible-- and in the distant future perhaps desirable
-- to organize a practical school with clinical instruction

at the Radcliffe Infirmary. To do so would entail the

extension of the Professoriate by at least a dozen new

teachers, with a corresponding outlay on apparatus, if

\the standard of the best London and provincial hospitals
was to be aimed at  But against any such scheme he

found grave objections.

  A purely scientific school of biology, using the word

in its widest sense, was a national want. That want

Oxford had for the last twenty years been endeavour-

ing to supply ; much still remained to do towards the

completion of such a school, and the reorganization of

the Oxford curriculum on a purely practical basis would
be fatal to it. It was impossible, he contended, that the

Radcliffe Infirmary could ever afford to the student the

same opportunities for the practical study of medicine

   ^ Professor Ray Lankester estimated that ^20,000 a year would
be required to maintain a staff adequate to the requirements of
a course of practical medicine, and that ^50,000 would have to

be sunk in additional buildings.
i884] THE 'LOST MEDICAL SCHOOL' 397

as were to be found in London and in the larger
provincial hospitals. And moreover Acland felt most
strongly that the University could not allow the Science
School to run the risk of having to adapt itself to

imperfectly-trained pass students in medicine whose
interest it would be to drag down the teaching of the
Science Classes to the minimum of professional require-

ments. To his mind this flooding of the University

with mere medical students, specializing from the date
of their matriculation, unaffected by the spirit of the
place, and with the smallest conceivable touch of
humanistic learning, was an ever-present danger. And
the language used by many of the supporters of the

so-called practical school went far to justify his alarm.
Men who came up intending to be doctors were advised

to give up their first year to chemistry and physics,

their second to biology, and so on through their whole

undergraduate residence. It appeared to Acland an
organized effort to drive Oxford men preparing for the
medical profession out of the ranks of literary, his-
torical, or philosophical culture. His whole life had
been devoted to enforcing the combination of 'Arts' (in
the Oxford sense) and Science, and to rendering such
a union practicable and easy. He had striven to make

it possible for the medical man to pass his early years
in an atmosphere of intellectual interests and discipline
where the purely scientific side of his studies might be
taught with a thoroughness and a breadth of view rarely
attainable in the laboratories and lecture-theatres of the
best-equipped hospital. Seventeen years' experience of
the Museum and its capabilities had confirmed him in

these opinions.

   The Commission heard the evidence on the other

side which was put before them, with all his wonted

vigour and lucidity, by Professor Ray Lankester. A

memorial in favour of a closer connexion between
Oxford University and the study of medicine, signed
by a number of the leaders of the medical profession,
398  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

was duly presented and put in, but the signataries

refrained from committing themselves to any details.

It was accompanied by a strong representation on the
part of the majority of the medical graduates of Oxford

against the proposed practical medical school, and by
letters of a similar tendency from the President of
the Royal College of Surgeons, from Sir William
Gull, from Sir James Paget, and from Professor (now
Sir William) Turner.

   The decision of the Commissioners was adverse to

the reformers, but, before any definite conclusion had
been arrived at, a campaign against Acland and those
who held his views had been opened in the columns of
the British Medical Journal, then under the control of

the late Mr. Ernest Hart. The first number for January,

1878, contained, in a prominent position, a letter from

' A member of Convocation,' deploring the fact that * as

a medical school Oxford has within the last twenty-five
years ceased to exist.' The letter was * echoed ' in the

editorial columns in a manner significant to those who

have been behind the scenes in journalism, and for the

whole of that year a brisk, if intermittent, correspondence
was kept up on the so-called ' Lost Medical School.' The
world was informed that 'vacuity and annihilation now

reigned where once medicine flourished and science

found her own.' Rolleston was assailed in language
of great bitterness, and he was accused of * occupying
himself and his pupils with any variety of collateral

subjects provided that they had no relation to human

anatomy and physiology and could not be pressed into
the service of medicine.' He was held up to special
derision for the use of illustrations derived from ' Saxon

interments, early ceramic ware, and prehistoric pigs.'

Nor was Acland spared, though the covert malice of
some of the anonymous attacks was veiled under
an assumption of outward respect. He was told
that he made no attempt to fulfil the duties of his

Professorship otherwise than by pocketing the stipend,
1884] THE 'LOST MEDICAL SCHOOL' 399

and that he must be held responsible to the profession
for the degradation of the Oxford Medical Faculty and

its conversion into a sinecure.

   To any one who knew what Acland had done for
medical education in Oxford these charges seemed
hardly to need refutation. The Museum was his monu-
ment, and the long years of unselfish labour on behalf
of the teaching of science were a sufficient answer to
these coarse insinuations. He had his own views of

his functions as Professor, and he had been upheld by
the University Commissioners. The question of prac-
tical medical teaching at Oxford was a very wide one,
and admitted of much argument and much diversity of
opinion, but the hollowness of the present outcry was

shown in its very title. 'The Lost Medical School'

was a glaring misnomer, and those who invented it
obviously knew little or nothing of modern University
history. The earlier chapters of this book have shown
that there never had been, during living memor}', any

practical medical school at Oxford, and that whatever
might have been contemplated in that direction when
Acland was elected to the Clinical Chair had been
abandoned as impracticable. The troops of medical
students who were assumed to have swarmed at some

unknown epoch in Oxford lecture-rooms were mere
figments of the brain. When Acland was appointed
Regius Professor he found the faculty of Medicine as
dead as it was on the appointment of Dr. Kidd thirty

years earlier.
   He was not left without his defenders in the press,

and Dr. T. K. Chambers in particular found no difficulty
in dissipating the myth of the lost school. Rolleston's

methods were vindicated, in vigorous language, as being
far in advance of biological teaching elsewhere, and as
being then universally adopted. And he was declared
to be ' an example to the men of science whose narrow
sympathies and lack of literary and general culture have

produced a reaction against scientific teaching.'
400          HENRY ACLAND                        [1878-

   It is painful to know that Rolleston suffered acutely
under this controversy, and Acland recorded in after

years that the last days of his friend had been saddened

by attacks on his methods and aims, levelled by those

' who were incapable of appreciating his greatness and

his large views of biological science, or of allowing for
his sometimes eccentricity in language.' The Regius

Professor himself was of tougher fibre, and the strength

of will characteristic of his family carried him on with

a serene persistence of purpose in the face of detraction ;

but it would be idle to affect that the whole affair did

not cause him infinite annoyance. And he felt, what he

was afterwards to realize only too painfully, that a
race of men was growing up which had forgotten, or

chose to ignore, the great services he had rendered to

Oxford. Desperate efforts were made by the Editor of

the British Medical Journal to provoke him to a reply ;
but he was not to be drawn. As a Professor of the

University he had acknowledged and welcomed the ex-

amination by the Royal Commissioners ; he recognized
no such right in the case of Mr. Ernest Hart.

Acland, however, never shrunk from newspaper con-

troversy when his friends were the object of contumely
or misrepresentation. We have seen this already in the

\case of Mr. Ruskin and he now intervened on behalf
of a great and ill-used servant of the Crown. His early
friendship and intense admiration for Sir Bartle Frere

have been already referred to ^ He had closely followed

his policy in South Africa, and the following extract

from a letter of Lady Frere's will show that, when the

news of the catastrophe at Isandhlana came upon the

public at home as a bolt from the blue, Acland was

better posted in South African politics than most

men in England. Writing from Government House,

Cape Town, on December 8, 1878, to condole with
him on the death of Mrs. Acland, Lady Frere went

on to say :

     ^ See p. 373, supra.  ^ See p. 361, supra.
1884] SIR BARTLE FRERE  401

   My dear husband will grieve when the tidings of the loss
of another dear friend reaches him in Maritzburg, the capital
of Natal, where he has been for the last ten weeks. A very

anxious time indeed, and as yet we cannot tell how matters
will end. Cetywayo and his Zulus are the keystone of all

South African difficulties. The Kaffir War on the Cape
Colony frontiers in '77-8 was but the symptom of the true
evil, the real cause of all is Cetywayo and his Zulus. Their

old dispute with the Transvaal and Natal about their boundary

is an ostensible cause, but his insolence to the Natal Govern-

ment (which is a Crown Colony) has grown worse and grown
on. Our force is but scant to defend our frontiers there

from invasion, or to have the power of keeping in order
Cetywayo and his large body of well-drilled Zulus ; some

say he is merely pushed into war (the war my husband has
so earnestly striven by all the means in his power to avoid)
by the young chiefs and the thousands of young Zulus,
anxious to wash their spears in blood -- and who have had
no fighting for nearly five years -- and who according to Kaffir
law may not marry and settle down until they are warriors,

which cannot be attained without a battle. Bartle and the

General have had to exercise great care in gathering together
and moving to suitable positions the few English troops we
have in South Africa -- quietly, to avoid that worst of all
dangers, panic. In England you seem under too great
anxiety 1 to send us the help of another regiment or two so

sorely needed out here, and which none perhaps but those
who are on the spot, as my husband and the General are,

can see the great need of, to prevent as well as to carry

through war ; and few can tell the anxious hours Sir Bartle

has had in seeing all that is coming steadily on and finding
his appeals for a few more redcoats cannot be complied with.
Disasters out here for want of such aid will not strengthen
your position in England or in India, and at home you seem
to forget Natal is a Crown Colony, and has as much right to
be defended from home as the Isle of Wight would have.

   Thank God, notwithstanding the immense fatigue and

  ^ Lady Frere is alluding to the preoccupation caused by the
Afghan War which broke out in November, 1878.

                                    Dd
402  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

anxiety of the downright hard work and the continued strain,
mental and physical, of so much depending on him, Bartle

has kept wonderfully well, and in a climate with the weather,
for many weeks, of Indian heat. He is living at Maritzburg

with the Lieutenant-Governor, Sir Henry Bulwer. We are

too large a body to have gone travelling with my husband
through this, in many places, roadless country, and now of
course the fewer ladies he has in Natal the better. He

and the General are now awaiting Cetywayo's reply to an
ultimatum Bartle has sent to him.

   The storm of obloquy which followed the news of
Cetywayo's victory on January 22, 1879, i^ matter of
history ; and while Sir Bartle was denounced through-
out England by the speakers and writers of both
political parties, he found himself treated with little

sympathy or consideration by his official superiors.
Under the influence of strong emotion Acland wrote
to the Editor of the Times :

   Sir,
      Will you, in the midst of the free handling of Sir Bartle

Frere's character, allow long friendship unmixed with
politics, a word ? The fairness of your leaders prompts me.

   Sir Bartle Frere, before he left England, was, without
question, one of the most popular of men. No one was more
acceptable wherever he went, and he went everywhere. No
one was more beloved by a circle of friends as large as any
public man ever had, of every occupation, country, and state
of life. It must have struck some of your readers as strange
that none hardly of these friends have sent you, in your
usual letters, their vote of public and private confidence.
The reason is not far to seek. The sudden outbreak of

violence which assailed an absent man, in whose province

a grave military disaster had occurred, astonished, but did
not affect his friends. They have full trust in the breadth of
his views, the fullness of his capacity, and the sobriety of his
judgement. This sentiment of trust is as firmly rooted as
affection for his whole character and respect for his busy life.
One of the most staid of your weekly contemporaries, imme-
diately the news of Isandhlana had reached us, spoke of
1884] SIR BARTLE FRERE                                       403

the anxiety of the High Commissioner in South Africa as

'Sir Bartle Frere's amusements,' of 'his paltry method of

escaping his obligations,' of his 'being intoxicated by the
chatter of colonial journalists,' of his ' hustling out of sight
the mass of his demands ' ; and then hinted that Cetywayo is
' to be put down ' by Sir Bartle Frere ' in the interest of
Sir Bartle Frere's reputation.' It was certain every friend

of Sir Bartle Frere who knows the brave heart that beats

beneath that courteous and gentle nature, and is aware of his
deep interest in all ' native races ' throughout the world,
would keep silence till the nation had, through Parliament,

pronounced its verdict. All honour to those who in both

Houses of Legislature have, on public grounds, supported
this noble servant ! His position is hard enough without

unjust imputation.

   The facts are very simple, but they must be looked at
in their right order, and away from the darkness of disap-
pointment and from the great grief of national misfortune.
Sir Bartle Frere went to South Africa very reluctantly and
wholly on patriotic and philanthropic grounds. He knew the
intricate and dangerous character of his undertaking. He

found it even more intricate and more dangerous than he, or
even Lord Carnarvon, had supposed. He saw himself in the

autumn of 1878 in the face of a contingent and overwhelming
disaster to the Queen's subjects under his protection. He
concluded that action, and not inaction, was the only ground

of their safety. As a brave man, he took, without flinching,

the measures he thought instantly necessary to this end.

A military accident alone marred a plan which certainly

would have kept Cetywa}'© in check till reinforcements had
arrived. For this professional disaster he, at least, was not
responsible in its details. To discuss these is beyond my
province, even if it were needed. The Government have

dissented from the Commissioner's policy, or rather the

policy which he inherited ; they courageously support the

man. The policy is doubtless one of the gravest of England's

difficulties. But England must be changed if she punish

bravery in the execution of her demands by her servants.
                          I am. Sir, your obedient servant,
                               Henry W. Acland.
Oxford, /i/irr/ 6, 1879.

                          Dd2
404                  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

   Amongst the numerous letters of approbation which
Acland received for his outspoken protest was one
from Sir Harry Verney, who was even then almost
the oldest Whig member in the House of Commons.
With the memory of bygone statesmen still fresh
before him he wrote that ' Had Lord Palmerston been
Minister he would have recalled Sir Bartle if he

thought him wrong, or defended him against all the

world if he thought him right.'
   Lady Frere poured out her gratitude in the following

letter, which seems to me to bear so closely on recent

events as to need no apology for publication :

                                                       Cape Town,it.
                 is
                                                             Tuesday, May 20, 1879.

   I cannot tell you how deeply I felt your noble letter to the
Times, which I read (and sent on to Sir Bartle) with such
pleasure amidst the war of words at home. I know how

greatly he will appreciate any words of yours.
   But really had the state of things not been so serious

I should have been exceedingly amused at the marvellous
colours in which they have depicted Sir Bartle -- like a very

bad villain in a novel. They seem really to have believed
two years of South Africa had completely changed his

character. I was more pleased to see your letter in print,

because I know there were many others who had written in

England to the Times on the subject, but the Times would

not insert their letters, which was most unjust -- so I am

especially glad you carried your point and got yours inserted.

In the end I feel sure truth must triumph, and common sense

must carry the day, and people's eyes be open to see that
every act, every step, in the action Sir Bartle took in Natal
was the only right and wise one for the safety of the country
committed to his charge -- though one that needed courage,
determination, self-reliance, and no fear of responsibility to

do (It rather amusing to read that the Governor-
General in Canada has just been found fault with for not

acting on his own authority but referring matters home.)
The Blue Books containing dispatches overflowing with the
1884] SIR BARTLE FRERE  405

very exhaustive information on the Zulu question, with

which from the very commencement Bartle furnished the
Home Government, were all laid on the table of the House
of Commons, and it seems so strange that people should not

have read them before speaking and writing on the subject.
They could not have done so. I suppose people will have
made themselves as little acquainted with the state of the

Transvaal ! ! I wonder if the}' will recognize the fact that

Bartle has averted civil war and bloodshed there by his

strenuous personal exertions, and the effect upon the Boers
of his calm courage, patience, and, personal influence. Few
who have not been in South Africa can realize all Bartle

personally underwent and personally risked in that journey
to the Transvaal. They will, I expect, not say as much of
the war averted by him as of that which with honour or
safety it was impossible to avoid. It was a great moral
conquest of the Boers, whose hearts he seemed to have

completely won. One man said to him after he had been

talking to them, ' If we had been always spoken to this way

all this would never have happened.'
   The armed Boer camp twenty miles from Pretoria dis-

persing on the i8th of their own accord without any coercion

or display of force was a silent triumph, which will, I dare
say, scarcely get recognized at home, and I daresay he will

no more get thanked at home for that than he was for all the

work he did for this colony in the Kaffir War last year,

which he acknowledged to me was harder work than any he
ever went through in his life, not excepting the Indian

Mutiny. People here were surprised that no public or special

acknowledgement was ever made to him for his lion's share in

that, though army, navy, and colonial forces received their
meed of honour. He could, of course, draw attention to

the services of others, but I should have thought his own

work would have spoken for itself Doubtless you will have
seen in the newspapers before now accounts of the great
mass-meeting of Boers, and how Bartle went through their

camp (twenty miles from Pretoria); but the newspapers, I
think, do not say what I hear from Dutch friends struck the

Boers more than anything else -- that he rode very deliberately

through their midst unescorted and only followed b}^ his own
4o6  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

personal staff and Colonel Lanyon the administrator of the
Transvaal -- the physical courage struck them, for they knew
he was aware of the bragging of some of their number as to

designs of personal violence, but I hear they were still more

impressed by the moral courage with which in all his com-
munications with any members of their committee he never
flinched from telling them the truth however unpalatable,

and never for a moment disguised his intentions or views,
or for a moment buoyed them up with promises or hopes he

did not intend to fulfil.

   Bartle fully believes that when the Boers have time to
feel the advantage of a good firm government, a blessing un-
known to them for many years, H. M. will have no more

loyal peace-loving subjects than she has among this very

primitive, very simple, and very ignorant people who have

suffered so much from dishonest and interested agitators
working on their ignorance.

  A Dutch friend here who has many Transvaal corre-

spondents told me yesterday that nothing had had such an
effect on them as feeling they could trust him implicitly. He
left Pretoria on the ist, the Boers' camp having broken up
on the i8th, and he told me then he was full of hope of

turning their strength in aid of us, instead of opposition to
us, and with this view he sent Colonel Lanyon -- who was to
have gone on with him to Kimberley, the Diamond Fields

(where he had lately taken charge and where therefore his
presence with Bartle was wanted) -- back from Potchefstroom
(Transvaal) towards Utrecht to endeavour to obtain some help
in mounted men from the Dutch themselves for Lord Chelms-

ford's and General Wood's operations. Imagine how glad
I was to hear last night that this move is eminently successful,

and the very men who were lately the ringleaders in the

camp, Pretorius himself included, are recruiting a mounted

contingent to help us up there ! Do you not call this a moral
conquest ? My last tidings of Bartle from Kimberley, where

he was most enthusiastically received, lead us to hope that
in another fortnight he will return here after nearly nine
months' absence. The people here are preparing garlands,

addresses, banquets, &c., &;c. ; meanwhile Bartle (junior) has
just come from Gibraltar on a short leave, and rushed up to
1884]              SIR BARTLE FRERE                    407

join the General (Lord Chelmsford), who has made him his

extra A.D.C, so our anxiety is not at an end.
   I am sure in common with all our friends you will have

been anxious to know how Bartle would deal with the open

censure sent out to him (and really, I cannot but feel, so

shabbily published for party reasons at home) and whether
he would continue to work for the Government which had so

dealt with a distant servant. I am sure you will not have

doubted that his first and last thought will be for the good

of the work in hand ; and as he writes me, * this is not a time

for private or personal feeling but for doing one's best for

the country,' and at that he will continue to work until they

find a better or a stronger man, which I defy them to do ! but

at present he is a sentry at his post and will not desert it until
relieved. It is rather amusing to see the consternation of

both parties -- and I have been amused that in all the violent

newspaper abuse no name of any one fit to take his place has

ever crossed their ideas ! They feel I should fancy that only

himself can draw Ulysses' bow ! Most providentially Bartle had

put down the Boer excitement in the Transvaal before news of

the dispatch of censure of the 19th of March, which was tele-

graphed out by Reuter's agency, had reached the Transvaal.

   It was there that I most feared its dangerous effect, but
I cannot say even now how greatly it has embarrassed his

position (quite apart from all personal consideration  But
                                         I
                                                 !).
he will maintain nevertheless, in spite of the tying of his
hands -- especially at such critical moment -- and have no
                   it,
                                   a

doubt that the world at home will be convinced in time, and

hope will be ashamed of the hasty and unworthy judge-
is I
ment passed, of which should never have thought England
               it  I

could have been capable. Meanwhile all thanks to you and

all the other loyal friends whose faith did not depend on

seeing which way things would turn He would, am sure,!I
have liked to write to you himself -- but writing private letters
                                                 a
   an impossibility -- those to me have been written in pencil

on his knee in the cart, travelling down the country. You

must know all these journeys have had to be made either

riding long distances or going over rough roads in cart;

when last heard he had just received all the newspapers
       I

and accounts from home, and tells me how much he felt
4o8  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

Lord Carnarvon's noble speech in the House. I, you know,
cannot help feeling no one can say too much, or even enough !

I was very much delighted with Lord Elcho's manly action.

   Acland reached Baltimore in the middle of September,
1879. His main object in crossing the Atlantic had
been to visit the newly-founded Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, and to study on the spot the plans and structure
of the hospital which had been erected under the same
wise and benevolent bequest. The creation and endow-
ment of Universities and of public institutions has of
recent years become such a common feature of million-
aire existence in the United States that the princely

gift of the late Mr. Johns Hopkins is only one among
many visible examples of public spirit combined with

munificence. Five-and-twenty years ago it was looked

upon, and rightly, as the first step in a new departure.
Acland's interest had been excited in it in 1876 by
Dr. Billings, who had visited him at Oxford to confer

with regard to plans for the projected hospital, and it

was largely at BilHngs's instigation that the trip had been

taken. In this new foundation, where a great modern
hospital stood side by side with a University, enjoying
every advantage which money could buy and experience
suggest, he saw the possible realization of those views
on medical education of which he was the life-long
exponent. Here, in a town of 350,000 inhabitants, in
the wards of a perfectly equipped hospital, it was

possible to unite a practical training in medicine and

surgery with the earlier studies that go to make a

liberal education and with the preliminary scientific
teaching which is the necessary equipment of a medical

man. He was delighted with all he saw both in the
University and the hospital, and with the opportuni-
ties which the latter afforded for the training of the
nurses, and for the teaching of his favourite hobby,
' Comparative National Health.'

   He was invited, more Americano, to make some
1884] VISIT TO AMERICA  409

remarks on his impressions at the opening of the
University session. This he was prevented from doing

by temporary indisposition, but he put on paper in
the form of a letter to the Trustees the substance of

what he had intended to say, and the Trustees, with

whom he was for the most part in hearty agreement,
caused the letter to be pubHshed. Written with an eye

to the controversies he had just left behind him in
Oxford, it is a clear statement of his views as to

the ideals to be followed in medical education, when

these ideals can be pursued free from the restraints
and limitations which in the old English University

hemmed them in on every side ^.

   Not only at Baltimore, but in Boston, New York,

Philadelphia, and Washington, he was able to discuss
the broad questions of education and of Public Health

administration with the leading authorities and special-

ists in America. Some were new acquaintances, many
of them old friends who recalled memories of his for-
mer visit with the Prince of Wales nineteen years

before. Among these the most prominent perhaps was
Dr. Bilhngs, then occupying an important post in the
Surgeon-General's office at Washington, and now Chief
Librarian in the Public Library at New York. His
duties as Representative of the United States at the

various medical and sanitary conventions brought him
frequently to Europe and to Oxford, and gave oppor-
tunities for an intimacy which ripened into an affection
that on the part of the younger man was almost filial.

' My greatest regret,' he has written, * is that I did not
know Sir Henry Acland ten years earlier than I did.'
What most impressed Dr. Billings was * the strong

personal influence which he exerted upon his pupils
and associates, and upon some of the leaders of public

opinion in England.'

   ^ Not the least remarkable incident in his journey was his

delivery of an address to the students in the Union Theological
Seminary (Presbyterian) in New York.
410  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

   He could be as enthusiastic as a boy over some new dis-
covery, and especially over new methods of research, such,
for example, as those of modern bacteriology ; his interest in
the progress of the United States in science and education,
and especially in the work of the Government Departments

connected with these matters, was keen and unflagging until

the end of his life. I endeavoured to keep him supplied with
such recent public documents as I thought would interest
him, but I was several times surprised by requests for
documents which I had not supposed he would care for.

   This was not Acland's last visit to the United States :
he crossed the Atlantic for a third time in 1888, and then,
as ever, enjoyed to the full the abounding hospitality
of our kin beyond the sea. Much of this he was able
to return under his own roof in Broad Street, and by
smoothing the path of his American visitors in their
journeys to places of interest in the old country. To
quote only one instance, he was instrumental in obtain-
ing for the Bishop of Minnesota a grant from the
Clarendon Press of books of the value of ^^^150. He

kept up a voluminous correspondence with these friends,
much of which has been preserved. The names of
Drs. Bowditch, Gross, Hilditch, Shattuck, Gouverneur

Smith, and Weir Mitchell, of Asa Gray, of Bayard, and
of the McLellans are only a few out of the long list.
Two letters, one from Oliver Wendell Holmes, the

other from Justin Winsor of Cambridge, Mass., deserve
to be quoted.

                                 Beverly Farms, Mass., August 2.6, 1879.
My dear Dr. Acland,

      I can never forget the tender confidence of which you
felt me to be not unworthy. I have been taught by my
experiences of late years that it is better to go to the house
of mourning than the house of feasting. Deep sorrow brings
us nearer together than any other condition, and I have
learned the best lessons of my life in holding the hands of

friends who were going through the dark valley where they
had lost sight for a time of those who were dearest to them.
1884] VISIT TO AMERICA  411

   I knew you were made to be loved when I first saw you ;
I know too now that you were made to love, which is a better

gift, for out of earthly love grows every heavenly affection.
Words are of little value beyond the simplest expression of
communion in another's suffering when one has listened to
the story of a loss like yours. It is for grief to speak, for

sympathy to listen.

   You expressed a wish to see the lines I repeated to you.

They were written in June last, for the fiftieth anniversary
of graduation of my college class, the class of 1829, of which
Mr. Lee spoke to you, and read at the Commencement
Dinner as the closing paragraph of a poem which is printed

in the Atlantic Monthly for August with the title Vestigia

\quinqtte reirorsum

        Believe me, my dear Dr. Acland, most sincerely yours,

                                                           O. W. Holmes.

My dear Dr. Acland,  November 2^, 1883.

I was gratified with receiving a copy of your Ground

Work of Culture, which reached me safely the other day;

and has given me pleasure to read. If I may presume you
have any interest in what I am doing, you may spare a moment
in glancing at some proofs which I send you by the same

   ^ The letter contains, in Oliver Wendell Holmes's handwriting,
the well-known lines, which yet may possibly be new to some of
the readers of these pages :

             Brothers, farewell ! the fast declining ray
             Fades to the twilight of our golden day ;
              Some lesson yet our wearied brains may learn,

              Some leaves, perhaps, in life's thin volume turn.

           How few they seem as in our waning age
           We count them backward to the title page !
             Oh, let us trust with holy men of old,
             Not all the story here begun is told ;
             So the tired spirit waiting to be freed
             On life's last leaf with tranquil eye shall read
            By the pale glimmer of the torch reversed,
           Not Finis, but the End of Volume First/
412                     HENRY ACLAND                  [1878-

post\ The study may be quite out of the limits of your

interest, and possibly Mr. J. A. Doyle of All Souls may

have a more immediate interest in them, as I have already

communicated proofs of other portions of the work to him,

and he may like to see these if you could kindly in turn hand

them over to him.

   Since you were here we have lost Longfellow as you know,

and his daughters are now for a year or so in your neighbour-

hood, I think studying at Newnham. Colonel Lee, who
             '^,
accompanied you to Longfellow's house, well, and we meet
                          a    I

                                               is

                                                           I

                                                                                                 ;
every few weeks. The last time saw him was at the dedica-

tion of the new Medical School Building in Boston, when

Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes delivered an address.       was

with Dr. Billings for week during the summer at Niagara

and his friends are looking for his promotion to the office

of Surgeon-General of the Army, that position being again

vacant. We are looking forward to seeing Bryce here in

a  fortnight. He has ingratiated himself with us in Cambridge

very much in previous visits, and we are great admirers of

his charming ways. was sorry your Chief Justice^ was not
             a

                            I
here at time when he could have seen the personnel of the

college. In August everybody was away, and was about
                                         I

the only one at home to do the honours of Harvard for him.

He fell into the hands of General Butler as the guest of the

States, and saw in Boston chiefly that person's familiars.

Coleridge made many excellent speeches during his pere-

grinations in this country; and quite captivated our people

by his facility and felicity in this respect. Matthew Arnold,

who      is  now here,  is  not half the presentable lion that the

Chief Justice was, who was perhaps rather over kind in
sending Arnold off among us by calling him at dinner in
New York, at which both he and Arnold were present, the
                                         I
'most distinguished living Englishman!'            a
                                         am going to

Boston this evening to meet Mr. Arnold at a club, the

     Dr. Winsor was then engaged as editor upon the Narrative"^ ^
and Critical History of America.
                                         ?
      To the American citizen, in the land of magnificent distances,:
Oxford and Cambridge are geographical neighbours or could the
historian have confused Newnham with Nuneham^

      Lord Coleridge.
i884]  PUSEY AND NEWMAN                413

' St. Botolph Club,' so you see we know our Lincolnshire

origin and don't forswear it.

  I did not mean to inflict on you so long a letter ; but you

will believe me,

                  Dear Dr. Acland,

                  Faithfully yours,

                                       Justin Winsor.

   The year which followed Acland's return from the

Baltimore expedition was rendered memorable by the
renewal of his friendship with Newman. He had been
away in London and Edinburgh during the crisis, now

so far distant, which ended in Newman's secession,

and he had never seen him since the days when the
future Cardinal had been the companion of his under-
graduate walks ^. In May, 1880, Newman paid a visit
to Oxford after an absence of five-and-thirty years, and
stayed at Trinity, of which college he had recently
been elected an Honorary Fellow. Acland met him at
a reception given by the President in the College Hall,
and begged him to come and see him. The next after-

noon Newman rang the bell in the house in Broad
Street, and the two, parted for half a lifetime, but
linked together by such a chain of tender recollection,

sat down once more and talked long and earnestly. It

was in many ways a trying interview, and the deepest
chords in the nature of each of the speakers were sounded.

Newman was especially touched to learn from the
widower's lips of the comfort that some of his writings
had given to Mrs. Acland both in health and in her last
illness. The Cardinal, now in his eightieth year, was
taxed beyond his strength, and Miss Acland at last in-

duced him to go and lie down on a sofa in the library.
Here he was discovered fast asleep, two hours later, by
an agitated chaplain, who was profuse in his gratitude

for the consideration which had been shown to one so

much over-wrought and over-fatigued.

                  ^ See p. 42, supra.
414  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

   Not many days afterwards Acland received the
following letter from the Cardinal ^ :

My dear Dr. Acland,
      I return to you by this post your Harveian Oration and

thank you for letting me read it. I found it very interesting
and very instructive. Your passage at p. 50 '^ is what every
serious thinker must feel. It is what St. Paul expresses so

forcibly.

   How could it but overcome me to receive such a welcome
from you and your daughter? I did not know you recollected
having ever seen me. And to find such warm friends in
Oxford, from which I have been cut off so long and so utterly,
was more than I could bear, especially when you told me too
of other kind friends I had had, so especially dear to you.

   I know there is but one religious house, to the inmates of

which faith is promised as the privilege of the domestici Dei,
the household of God, but it was an additional comfort to me

to meet with friends, not only kind to me, but whose reason

and whose affections were so drawn and directed towards the

Only Truth, our Lord and Saviour, and I pray God to reward

you and yours abundantly for the witness you are bearing to

Him in a sad day ; and to give you grace for grace.
   And may He bless you too, for all your kindness to me.
                                       Yours affectionately,
                                             John H. Card. Newman.

   They never met again, and within a short time Acland
was destined to lose by death another of the most
revered teachers of his youth, and one with whom he had

been for more than thirty years on terms of unbroken

   ^ For permission to publish this and another letter I am indebted
to the kindness of the Rev. Father William Neville, of the Edg-
baston Oratory, the Cardinal's literary executor, and the chaplain

referred to on the last page.

  ^ ' It is unnecessary to add another word. No student of Nature
worthy the name looks on the problem of this world as other than
vast and inexplicable. He pretends no more than to see as by an
image, darkly, and to bend before the cause of all, which is by us
unattainable, by us only mediately comprehensible.'
1884]  PUSEY AND NEWMAN            415

intimacy. As far back as January, 1873, Dr. Pusey
had been suddenly stricken witli illness at Genoa, and

Acland had gone out without a moment's delay to attend

him. Ever since then he had kept careful watch over

him, and had noted with pain the gradual increase of

bodily infirmity. For a very long time their intercourse

both by word of mouth and on paper had been of a
confidential and a sacred nature. To Pusey, Acland stood

as a precious witness for truth in an age of rapidly
spreading unbelief. For many reasons it is unlikely
that their correspondence will ever see the light of day,
but an exception may be made in favour of the follow-

ing letter from Dr. Pusey, undated, but evidently written

not many years before his death :

   The proverb says that ' when things are at their worst they
will mend.' And proverbs are the language of a good deal

of observation. Unbelief used to be limited to surgeons.

I suppose that the continued handling of the material indis-

posed them to the belief of the spiritual, which they did not
see. It used to be one of those overbroad sayings in 1818,

'All surgeons are atheists, and all lawyers are Deists.'

And certainly knowing some Lincoln's Inn Preachers then,

Bishop Lloyd and Bishop Maltby, I fear there is no

question that there was a good deal of unbelief then among

lawyers.
   Here we have suffered from three causes : (i) The failure of

such as Newman ; one said to me, ' We followed our guides

implicitly' (meaning N,), 'and they have left us.' (2) That of
those who did not go to Rome so many left the University

('The Heads drove out the intellect of Oxford/ Bishop
Jeune said to me). It was a continual weakening of
the heart. (3) The Heads of Houses were so anxious to

keep out Tractarians that they looked to nothing else.

They kept out Tractarians at the front door and let in un-

believers />os//m.  Leading    writers in the Westminster Review ,
F. Harrison and,                Congreve, were both Fellows of
                     I think,

a leading, though small. Evangelical College, Wadham.

  'IJowett and Stanley were both sceptical minds. It was one

of Newman's far-sighted sayings, wonder where J. and S.
4i6  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

are going to.' The Pall Mall Gazette said of J., 'A most

learned and amiable man exercised extraordinary influence
on the education of the most advanced college in Oxford.
He led his pupils quietly on to the negation of all creeds;

not because he was an unbeliever, in the vulgar sense of the
word, but because his peculiar mode of criticism cut the very
sinews of belief. The effect of his peculiar teaching may be
traced in many a refined mind of the present day.' Mark

Pattison, on the other hand, started back from the very

threshold of Rome. His mind was one which could only

see consistency in extremes. Since he could not become

Roman, he became what he has become. We expected him
to become a R. C. the earliest of all.

   Minds worked together so strangely to one result, e.g.

Norris, President of C. C. C, hated Tractarianism. He gave

all but finance into the hands of the present President, Wilson.
Wilson as Moral Philosophy professor, did not mean to be

sceptical ; but he balanced things so that he landed his

pupils in scepticism. I know not how it was in your depart-

ment, or whether Daubeny or Baden Powell had any faith.
The upshot of both would be to unsettle faith. Then came
the reign of dogmato-phobia. People dreaded anything
definite ; but the absence of definite faith always ends in its
slipping through. Then, a fashion of unbelief. Young men

who had no definite religious teaching at school came here

ready to surrender their faith and accept unbelief as a mark
of intellect. The first check to this was by a very able man,
Addis, gaining a First Class.

   The Oxford Act put everything on a level. M. has as
much right to teach Deism as a senior student, as Holland
and Paget to teach faith. But I think it only lays open what
was less avowed before. We fight without walls, but the

battle is open. Newman said he had rather have to meet
the open infidelity of the nineteenth century than the con-
cealed unbelief of the Middle Ages.

   I write all this, my dearest Acland, because it gives
courage. We have failed through men on the wrong side. It
has not been the weakness of the cause (God forbid but
human agency, one way or another and what man can do, man,
by God's help, can undo. The vcteris vestigia fraudis may
     ;
                                                                  !),
  1884]                    PUSEY AND NEWMAN                                         417

remain ; but to be an unbeliever is only regarded as a mark
of intellect in one department. And there too there are

rising believers, though they have not made their mark yet.
The waters are rising, the tide has turned ; though there

may be a wide sand-waste, visible energy is making its way

on the right side, the more God is with                                          the observa-
tion here, 'A man                                       a
                                                                    it.

                                                                      It

                                                                             is
is is                               no longer the same man after he has
           a

               a

                                is
taken walk with Holland or Paget,' and 'On Monday there

  such club, on Tuesday such wine, and on Friday there

  King^.'
  As for the din in your department, there would not be any,

unless there was something which men wished to drown.
A strong surf may hide lighthouse for the time, as bursts
         it,                                                       is
                   it                                                           it

                                               a
over but soon shines out again. Din but an echo of
Ifsuccess.
             they had things their own way, they would be

quiet.

'   have heard of the tumult which has been made on behalf

 Iof Mr. R. and in the Hebdomadal Council, and how they

  have been tired out by the sparring between Jowett and
  Rolleston, but seemed to leave no impression, except that

  of weariness. Sometimes after there had been talk for half
         I                                                         :
              I
                                                                      a
                    it
an hour used to ask my neighbour Dr. Bellamy what they

had been talking of, and not unfrequently had the answer,
                                    I

  Nothing.'                have often in my mind, when trouble comes,

  Horace's lines, only altering the Trojan name

                    Fortes peioraque passi'

           mecum saepe viri,                            et auspice               Christo"^.^

           Nil desperandum Christo duce

    think                  of the utmost importance that you should retain
  '^ ^ I
           ayour place here. You are witness for God. Things must
                it                  is
  come round. Atheismis                                             has been this
                         I.                a
                                                  no terra firma.
                                                        is '

                                                               a

                                                                It
  weakening of the heart by our friends going away which has

  been great part of the harm. But one generation goeth

  and another cometh,' and now there                               generation rising

  for the faith. There has been partial eclipse, but when the
                                                  a

       The present Bishop of Lincoln, then Professor of Pastoral

  Theology.
        Hon Odes, vii. 27 and 30, 31. The first two and the last line

  in the text are transposed from their place in the original.

                                                  E
                                                     e
4i8          HENRY ACLAND                          [1878-

eclipse is at its height, it begins to diminish. So be of good
courage. I often think of Moses' words : ' Fear ye not,
stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord.' God be with

you.

Pusey's strange antipathy to allowing a picture of

himself to be painted is well known. Acland was

chosen to approach him on the subject, both alone and

in conjunction with Liddell, but their efforts were fruit-
less : * Please, my dearest Acland,' he wrote in 1878, ' if

you pay me one of your kind visits on Sunday, do not
say anything about that odious subject --picture. It

was very kind of the Vice- Provost ^ to send me the

picture of Cardinal Newman to look at, but my own
happy memories are of J. H. N. of forty years ago.
With me it is a religious question^. I need not go over
Ifit again.
             you look upon it as a disease, it is a disease

of forty years' standing.'

Pusey was extremely anxious to preach what he felt

would be his last sermon in St. Mary's, in November,

1878. Acland positively vetoed his delivering more
than half the discourse. Finally Liddon ascended the

pulpit instead of his master, and read, amidst a scene
the impressiveness of which can never be forgotten,

Pusey's last public message to Oxford. It was pub-

lished, with the title, Unscience, not science adverse to
faith, and was dedicated to ' Henry Acland ' as one

'who devoted the prime of life to the revival of the

study of the book of God's works at Oxford, and

through whose kind care and skill God restored to the

author the strength to write it.' Before printing the

dedication Pusey had written a humbly tender note to

Acland saying that he hesitated to do so without per-

mission, for fear that the conjunction of the two names

on the same page might injure the younger man !

When Pusey was seized with his last fatal illness at

             ^ Of Oriel (D. B. Monro).
             ^ See Life of Pusey, vol. 4, p. 326.
i884] PUSEY AND NEWMAN                                        419

Ascot in September, 1882, Acland was away in Devon-
sliire. He was summoned immediately, and on the first
impression had hopes of at any rate tiding his patient
over the crisis. But it was not to be, and a week later

he walked, with Canon Courtenay, as a pall-bearer in
the vast concourse of mourners who followed Pusey's

body to the grave in the cathedral precincts that bright
summer afternoon. He had written to ask Newman to

come to him for the funeral, and the Cardinal wrote to

explain his reasons for being unable to be present :

My dear Dr. Acland,

      Your and your daughter's kindness to me two years
ago will never leave my mind, and your present offer is

like it.

   I have from the first felt that, as a Cardinal, I represent
the Holy See of the Pope so directly, that I had no right

to indulge my private feeling by coming to Oxford and taking
part in to-day's solemnities. Nor was I sure that I should

be welcome to dear Pusey's immediate relatives ; even
Mrs. Brine, who wrote me a most kind letter, took it for

granted I should not come. No hint came to me, implying

such a wish, on occasion of the funerals of Isaac Williams
and Keble ; and, as regards Williams's, the first of the two,
Sir George Prevost wrote to me to say that he was sorry he
could not ask me. I thought then, and think, that even were
I not a Cardinal, there would be a technical or ecclesiastical
difficulty in (say) a Bishop of Oxford receiving me, both on

my side and on his, in what must be public.
   One of our Fathers is going from this place, and, since this

house is mainly made up of converts, I and others make him

their representative. One thing struck me just now that

I might have done. I might have asked to go to see him,
before the coffin was closed; but on Monday I had arranged

to go on a matter of private duty to Tenby, returning last

night, and my mind was so occupied with the anxieties con-

nected with that such thought did not occur to me.

        have sent your name some weeks ago to my publishers,
with the hope you will accept from me William Palmer's
I
                       it,
                                                a
                                                 E
                                                           e
                                                        2
420                HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

Russiaft Journal,  but the publication has been unavoidably

        ^'                Most truly yours,
                                      John H. Card. Newman.

    The armchair in which Pusey habitually sat during
 his later years had been lent him by Acland, and was re-

 turned on his death to the latter ; but the most cherished

 relic of his friend was a picture of the crucifixion,
which had been much valued by Pusey. For the rest
of his life it hung above his bed's head, and was joined
in time by a beautiful picture of the Madonna which

had belonged to Jowett and was given as a memorial
under similar circumstances.

   It is fortunate perhaps that Pusey was spared the
necessity of taking part in a struggle which followed

shortly upon his decease, and was the cause of much
heartburning and bitterness in Oxford. One of the

new Chairs founded by the University Commissioners
of 1877 had been the Waynflete Professorship of
Physiology, for the support of which the revenues of
Magdalen were rendered responsible. It seemed a

great opportunity for bringing down to Oxford a teacher
of established reputation, whose lectures and practical
work would place the study of Physiology in a position
worthy of the recognition thus accorded to it. In this
branch of science the name of Dr. (now Sir John) Burdon-
Sanderson stood supreme. He was at the moment
Professor of Human Physiology at University College,
London, and was pursuing researches of a highly im-

portant nature ; and it was dubious how far the
exchange of active professional life in the metropolis for
the career of a teacher in a University town would be
acceptable to him. He was persuaded, however, and

Acland, who had known him for some time, and had

formed the highest opinion of him both on personal and

public grounds, was largely instrumental in influencing

his decision.

   The election was made in November, 1882, and it was
i884] THE VIVISECTION DEBATES  421

not long before difficulties began to present themselves.

The accommodation in the Museum for the proper
teaching of physiology was hopelessly deficient, but

the Commissioners, while establishing and endowing

the Professorship, had made no provision for 'plant'
and appliances, and had forbidden any allocation of the
income of the Professorship in this direction. It was

necessary, therefore, that the University should supply
the deficiency out of its common fund. In February,
1883, Convocation voted without demur the sum of

;^i,50o for instruments and apparatus for the new Pro-
fessor, and it was intimated that a much larger sum
would be required for building purposes. On May 29
notice was given of the intention to ask Convocation
for a decree authorizing the Curators of the University

Chest ' to expend a sum not exceeding i^io,ooo in the
erection of a Laboratory, Working-rooms, and Lecture-
room for the Waynflete Professor of Physiology, and

in providing fixtures, warming apparatus, and gas for

the same.'

   Then the storm began : a considerable party in the

University was opposed to the expenditure, partly from
the old disHke to the Museum, partly from motives
of economy, on which latter score it would be idle to
say that they were altogether without justification. But
a far more formidable sentiment was aroused. It was
matter of common knowledge that Dr. Burdon-Sanderson
held a licence for experiments of research under the
so-called ' Vivisection ' Act of 1876 ; he had been a
witness before the Royal Commission on Vivisection,

and he was the Editor of a Handbook for the Physio-

logical Laboratory which had been the object of much
criticism and some obloquy. When the decree was

submitted on June 5, it met with a strenuous opposition
on scientific, financial, and humanitarian grounds, and
was only carried by a majority of three in a house of
173, 88 placets to 85 non-placets. The late Warden
of New College (Dr. Sewell) insisted that while the
422  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

University was largely in debt it must learn to do
without costly luxuries, and the Warden of Keble
(Dr. Talbot, now Bishop of Rochester) expressed himself
as not satisfied of the propriety of the vote, though most

reluctant to countenance any opposition to scientific

studies.

   Acland next intervened in the debate. His views on
the whole question of experiments on animals had been
given before the Royal Commission. He there drew

a strong distinction between experiments made for the
mere discovery of fresh knowledge and those intended
to advance the healing art. He felt not the smallest

doubt that he would be morally justified in taking a

step which would enable him to save mankind from
suffering and pain if he were sure that he would there-
by be put on the right path. He was convinced that
most beneficial consequences in the past had resulted
from experiments on living animals. He had con-
fidence in the humanity of the great men of his acquaint-
ance who had practised vivisection, many of whom,
like Brodie, were persons not only of great intellectual
power but of tender and gentle natures. But though
cruel experiments might be justifiable in themselves,
he held it most unjustifiable to repeat them needlessly ;
he had declined to sign a memorial in which it was

stated that the progress of medicine depended mainly

 upon experiments on animals, and he said it was a very
 rare thing to find a physician or surgeon, even of the

 highest eminence, competent to perform these opera-

 tions profitably.

    He had been, since the passing of the Act of 1876, one
 of the ' certifiers ' under it ; of the care which he took
 and the inquiries which he made in the discharge of

 this duty his correspondence bears abundant traces.

 On the present occasion he reminded Convocation that
 ' vivisection played only a small part in physiological
 inquiry,' and that the latter subject was of the utmost
 importance in relation to the study of medicine, neither
i884] THE VIVISECTION DEBATES  423

of which points of view had hitherto received their due
attention. Finally Dr. Burdon-Sanderson, after showing
the absolute necessity of the proposed expenditure,
declared that, while he was firm as ever in his convic-

tions on the moral aspect of the relation of man to the

animals, he did not intend that students should make

experiments involving vivisection, or that such experi-
ments should be used for the purpose of instruction.
But he declined to bind himself not to make use of
animals in his own private investigations, though con-
tinuing to do his utmost, as he always had done, to limit
suffering in the course of such researches.

   This declaration was far from satisfying the anti-

vivisection party in Oxford. Caught napping, as they
declared, in June, they proceeded to organize them-

selves after the close of the Vacation. A memorial was

drawn up and submitted to the Hebdomadal Council

praying that the following decree should be adopted :
'That, without further order of the University, build-

ings and appliances provided by the University be not
used for the performance or exhibition of experiments
involving pain to animals, or of any operations on

domestic animals.'

   The petition accompanying the memorial was signed
by one hundred resident members of Convocation, includ-
ing not a few names of weight, and by some forty non-
residents. The ' Heads ' took pains to ascertain from the

Professor whether the proposed decree would be ac-
cepted by him, but Dr. Sanderson, while wiUing that the
' exhibition of experiments involving pain to animals *

should be expressly forbidden, could not bind himself or
his successors to abstain from the performance of such

experiments in private research in his laboratory, or
from all ' operations on domestic animals.'

   The memorial was accordingly rejected, and it was
now war to the knife. Acland had done his utmost

to bring about something in the way of compromise,
not without some hopes of success, but the morning
424  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

following the decision of the Council he was notified by
a prominent Oxford anti-vivisectionist that the latter
withdrew ' all I have ever said to you or any one else

as to what I or others should do or refrain from doing

in relation to the Professor and the new laboratory.'

   The opportunity for action was not long in coming.
It had been decided to raise the ;^io,ooo by a sale of
stock representing moneys derived from the sale of lands

formerly held by the University in trust for the Bodleian.
To do this an application was necessary to the Land
Commissioners in whose name the proceeds of the sale
were standing, and a decree of Convocation was required

for the purpose. Regarding the matter as settled once
for all by the vote of the previous June, the promoters
of the scheme had set the decree down for Feb. 5, 1884,
and had no anxiety as to the result. At the last moment

it came to their knowledge that a strong whip was being
circulated among the non-resident members of Convoca-

tion calling on them to come up and non-placet the
decree. The appeal emanated from 'a committee of
resident members of Convocation ' whose declared

object was ' to prevent the establishment out of Univer-
sity funds of a centre of vivisection in Oxford.' It was
headed Vivisection in Oxford^ and took the form of
a pamphlet of ten closely-printed pages, swelled by a
liberal selection of ' extracts relating to Dr. Sanderson
from the Report of the Royal Commission

   Much indignation was felt at the unprecedented
nature of the opposition, at the secrecy with which the
campaign had been conducted, and at the attacks of
which Professor Burdon-Sanderson was the object.
was the plain intention of the opposers to drive from
Oxford the distinguished man of science whom the Uni-

versity had so recently welcomed. Though was the
eleventh hour Acland wrote to the Times the following
^

  It
                                                                                                                              ^.'
                                                                       it
                                                                        It
         afterwards appeared that the Blue Book from which those
extracts were taken had misrepresented the character of one of

the experiments.
1884] THE VIVISECTION DEBATES  425

letter, which appeared in the columns of that paper on
the morning of Feb. 4, 1884 :

                      Physiology at Oxford.

   I venture to hope you will grant space for the following

statement in a matter of great importance to scientific educa-
tion. Professor Burdon-Sanderson, of whose eminence in

the scientific world it is not for me now to speak, left London
in 1882 to fill the chair of Physiology upon its first foundation
in Oxford. The University on June 5, 1883, voted £10,000
for erecting and furnishing a laboratory for him. The vote
had been opposed ; but it being once carried, it was believed
Dr. Burdon-Sanderson would meet with no further difficulty.

   On Tuesday next, the 5th inst., at 2 p. m., it is necessary
to take a formal vote for selling out the three per cent, stock
required to complete the work. I am sorry to learn from
London, that non-resident members of Convocation have

now, at the last moment, both by personal canvass and by

circulars privately distributed, been requested to come up on
Tuesday to oppose the vote. May I, through the Times,
venture to respectfully but earnestly request members of

Convocation to attend, in order to defeat so unusual a pro-

ceeding, and one which, if successful, would be very prejudicial
to the interests of education in the University, as well as

unjust to the distinguished Professor ?

   In response to the rival appeals a strong muster of
members of Convocation, resident and non-resident, was

beaten up, and the Sheldonian Theatre was packed with
partisans of both sides. The Dean of Christ Church

opened the debate with a vigorous fighting speech.
Then arose Professor Freeman in his most truculent
mood. He would not allow any class of men a monopoly

in science. As a historian he claimed to be as much

a man of science as any one who operated on live rabbits,

but he did not ask to be allowed to illustrate the siege
of Jerusalem by a repetition of its massacres, or the Eliza-
bethan festivities at Kenilworth by a bull-baiting. He
deprecated the establishment in Oxford of a * chamber
426         HENRY ACLAND         [1878-

of horrors,' and insisted that a vote of ;^io,ooo would

never have been carried for the British School at Athens.

The Warden of Keble, while professing little sympathy

with vivisection and much with its opponents, based his

support of the vote on the Professor's assurance that

students were not to practise or be instructed by such

experiments. Acland, who spoke next, was able to cut

much of the ground from under the feet of the opposition

by the announcement that Dr. Burdon-Sanderson had

written some time ago to the Home Office stating that

he did not propose to apply for the special certificate

entitling him to make experiments in illustration of

his lectures. But speaking as Regius Professor of Medi-

cine he insisted warmly on the essential importance of

researches such as those upon which his colleagues had

been engaged, and he hailed the establishment of the

physiological laboratory as of the best omen alike for

science and humanity.

There followed a good deal more tumultuous speech-

making with a strong flavour of personalities, and then

the division was taken. Placet 188, non-placet 147; so the

vote was carried. But the anti-vivisectionists were not

to be daunted. In the following March, Convocation

was asked   for an annual grant  of £s<^o for coal,  gas,
water, and  the general upkeep   of the laboratory.
                                                       A

memorial was brought out, this time openly in the light

of day, in which the members of Convocation were called
upon to refuse their sanction to ' the performance

of physiological experiments on living animals, com-

monly but inadequately described as vivisection,' and

Dr. Burdon-Sanderson's refusal to use such experiments

for purposes of demonstration was met by the argu-

ment that his successors would be untrammelled by any

such decision. The memorial was signed by, amongst

others, the Master of Pembroke (Dr. Evans), the Provost
of Worcester, and the Principals of St. Mary and

St. Edmund Hall, by the Bishop of Oxford (Mackarness),

by Dr. King, shortly to become Bishop of Lincoln, by
1884] THE VIVISECTION DEBATES  427

Professors Bright, Driver, Freeman, and Rawlinson, by
Ruskin, and by Cliarles Dodgson (Lewis Carroll).

   It was followed by a counter-blast, which, after

reiterating the precautions which had been taken against
the use ofthe condemned experiments for demonstration
or instruction, pointed out that the rejection of the
decree would be a fatal blow to all hope of medical study
at Oxford. Fifteen Heads of Houses (including Dean

Liddell, Dr. Magrath, Professor Fowler, Sir William
Anson, and the present Bishops of Rochester and

Hereford) were among the signataries, as were five
others who were to rise to that position -- Bartholomew

Price (Pembroke), T. H. Warren (Magdalen), J. Lock

(Keble), W. W. Jackson (Exeter), and H. F. Pelham
(Trinity). Professors Ince and Max Miiller, the Rev.
Arthur Butler, the Rev. Aubrey Moore, and Alfred
Robinson of New College also appended their names,
as of course did Acland. This policy of cutting off
gas and water was only too reminiscent of his own
tribulations in the earlier days of the Museum.

   The loth of March once more found the Sheldonian

crowded to its utmost limits, and Jowett, who now pre-
sided as Vice-Chancellor, must have been reminded of the

ancient squabbles over his salary as Professor of Greek.
Once more Liddell opened the debate. Canon Liddon

pleaded earnestly against the decree, somewhat marring
the effect of an eloquent speech by too long a pause

after the opening words, ' I can never make up my mind.'

Acland again defended, urging that the simple question
before the House was whether the new building should
be handed over in working order or not. The opponents

of the vote had made much play by asserting that it
' trifled with the morality of the University.' ' You
have already trifled with it,' he declared, 'by inviting
a distinguished professor to Oxford and then casting
him aside ; by taking the responsibility of checking
the advance of medical knowledge and the chance of

alleviating the suffering of mankind.'
428  HENRY ACLAND  [1878-

   The audience would hear no further speeches. Both
Professor Dicey and Professor Freeman were inaudible

amidst the shouts, and the vote was taken-- 412 for, 244
against. And thus the matter ended. Acland's staunch
support of Professor Burdon-Sanderson was bound to
expose him to much misrepresentation and abuse. The
following anonymous letter is a sample of the lengths to

which certain minds can go :

                             To Dr. Acland,
              The Great Professor of Science.

   In your wife's ' Home ' her students are taught compassion,
love, and mercy; but what of her husband's Laboratory,

cruelty in the Jiiost diabolical forms on the helpless dumb
beings. Which of the twain shall prosper?

   ' Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of these my little ones,

ye have done it unto me.
   'Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.'

   Such an effusion could only excite pity, but there

were friendships hallowed by old and almost sacred
associations which were severed by this Oxford struggle.
One lady in particular, with whom and with whose
family Acland had been on terms of lifelong friendship,
declined, ten years afterwards, to join or to counten-
ance the movement for a testimonial to him. On the
other hand may be set a letter in which a humble

Wesleyan schoolmaster wrote to congratulate him on
'the most remarkable victory science has gained in
Oxford.'

   But the most striking sequel to these embittered
proceedings was Ruskin's resignation of the Slade Pro-

fessorship, to which he had been re-elected in 1883.

' To his mind,' says his biographer, ' vivisection meant

not only cruelty to animals, but a complete misunder-
standing of the purpose of science and defiance of the
moral law.' On April 25, he gave effect to his intention,
in a public letter to the Vice-Chancellor. It was a sad

ending to what had been, with all its storms and out-
1884] THE VIVISECTION DEBATES  429

 bursts, one of the happiest episodes of his life, and it
 left much heartburning and some disagreeable conse-
 quences behind it. It is satisfactory to know that it was
 not allowed to injure his friendship with Acland.

    Before leaving the subject this letter, dated Dec. 31,
 1886, should be read in illustration of Acland's attitude

towards experiments on living animals, and of the care
taken by him as a ' certifier ' under the Vivisection Act :

   I have carefully considered the letter concerning the

certificates under the Cruelty to Animals Act which you
write as Chairman of a Committee of the Association for the
promotion of Medicine by research.

   The matter is full of difficulty. I gather from your letter

that the President of the Royal Society, the President
of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and the
President of the Royal College of Physicians, have each

declined to sign the certificate C, to enable Professor
M.'s assistant (not Professor M. himself) to exhibit experi-
ments to a class, under the usual conditions of certificate

C ; you imply that their refusal is a cogent argument that

I should do what they decline. No doubt it is so, if they

are wrong, but supposing they are right, how wrong

I should be to do what they, who are above me in the list

of certifiers, have all refused. It is important not to revive un-

just and angry discussion on this matter. Professor Sanderson,
whose authority on physiological teaching none will dispute,
publicly informed the Convocation of the University of Oxford,

in a great debate, that he did not and would not hold the

certificate C. I am the last person who should, in face

of this earnest teacher's opinion as to his duty, act in reversal
of the conclusion of the other three Presidents.

   The President of the Royal Society has informed me that

he approves of experiment for research, but leaves the
responsibility of class teaching through certificate C to others.
This conclusion is supported, I suppose, by Sir William
Jenner and Mr. Savory, whose personal characters as teachers
of experience in great schools add weight to their opinion as
President of the College of Physicians, and President of the
College of Surgeons, in the matter of teaching.
430 HENRY ACLAND

      The point of course whether showing experiments under
            C
                    is a

                                is is,
                                           is
                                                       it
                                                                 is
                                                                              it
certificate to       class or not necessary for all students.
Dr. Sanderson                                         not. If were so
                     clearly of opinion

in the minds of the three Presidents above named, and espe-
cially of the Presidents of the Royal Colleges of Physicians

and of Surgeons, presume they would have signed it. The
is
              is

                            a

                       I
convictions of Physician and of Surgeon of great eminence
                                         a

                                               is
are of more force in this matter than that of pure scientists,

who are naturally inclined towards the opinion that what

      admittedly necessary for first-class experimental physi-

ologists requisite also for all students of medicine. The

Act requires the signataries to declare that the experiments
                               '
                                                   a
are absolutely necessary for the due instruction of the persons

to whom such lectures are given, with view to their acquiring

physiological knowledge, or knowledge which will be useful

to them for saving or prolonging life or alleviating suffering.'

      Under all the circumstances of the case, propose to ask
                                         I if
the President of the Royal Society              I     he will arrange

meeting of Sir William Jenner, Mr. Savory, and myself, ina

order to bring about           common understanding as to theif
                               a                            I

                                     IC                                         a
grounds on which certificate should be granted or declined

in medical schools, and thus avoid all doubt as to our course

in future.  should say that have lately signed certificate
            I
is C  for Netley Hospital on the ground that the class thereif
      wholly comprised of registered surgeons about to enter

the army.

I     do not see the force of the remark of the Committee, that

the Home Secretary raises no difficulty, and therefore that,

a fortiori^ scientific men should not.                understand by this,

that the Home Secretary will honour our certificates. He

is    not likely to be less disposed to this course he knows

that he can absolutely rely on our careful consideration of

all the circumstances under which we give them, but he

might hesitate he knew that the majority of those authorized

to sign had declined to do so in any particular case.                             hope

that the temporary delay will bring about satisfactory

solution of the difficulty.
                 CHAPTER XV

POLITICS-- VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND--
     THE YACHT-- ART AND ARTISTS

                                        1883-1892

   In the Birthday Honour List of 1883 Acland's name
appeared among the Companions of the Bath, and in
the following year he was gazetted to a Knight Com-
panionship. The years of Mr. Gladstone's second
administration (1880-85) were a time of trial to many
of the Premier's friends, personal and political. Though
never a party man, Acland had welcomed his friend's
return to power, for this reason among many -- that the
Conservatives, in spite of Disraeli's famous ' sanitas '
speech, had disappointed his hopes of sanitary reform.
His fondness for Ireland and the Irish made him
follow with especial interest the trend of events in
that island. * He had an intense love for Ireland,'
wrote his friend Mr. Cooke Trench, 'and interest in

things Irish such as would have changed the whole
history of the country if other Englishmen had shared

them.' A visit there in the summer of 1881 under

peculiarly favourable auspices suggested a letter to
his eldest brother, then as ever one of Gladstone's
most ardent followers in the House of Commons.

                 Glencolumbkill Hotel, Carrick

My dearest Tom,  (County Donegal).

      You have been much in my mind during my stay here
over a week. I came seeking a stone, and have truly been

given bread. The object was to see a cliff of 1,970 feet ; the

end has been the most instructive and charming intercourse

with people, landlords, priests, clergy, and coastguardsmen
432             HENRY ACLAND                                                                                 [1883-

and officers, all of course having their views, habits, and
notions. I wish I could tell you a tithe of it all. But much

that is new to me is alphabet to you : you know, no doubt,

of Cardinal Cullen and Mr. Gladstone, that the former asked
the latter if he read his Bible, if he knew of Nicodemus?

' Then I tell you, Mr. Gladstone, if ye wish to understand

Ireland ye must be born again, and next time of an Irish
mother ! ' You probably heard it. At first sight there seems

I

          it,

                  I
                       II

                                                                is

                                                                                     a

                                                       I
truth in  whether shall think so later on know not.

But have no doubt one must live here long really to know

them, and what people who live here long and are not Irish

can do, and think, know not.

The place in which have been living  very wild spot

on the North-west coast of the wildest part of Ireland. The

inhabitants are of the poorest. They occupy small farms of

from three to fifteen or even twenty acres, with cow pastures.

The pigs, calves, fowls for the most part live in the single

room with the whole family, sometimes two families. There

are no chimneys. Each smoke, that each fire, typifying
aa
                                        a
                                                                is
                                                                                    a

                                                                                                          a
family, pays the priest four shillings year. They have

potatoes and oats in very rude way of culture. Perhaps

patch of oats giving twenty sheaves, each giving stone of

oats. Some few fish, some weave their homespun. Few

women or children have shoes or stockings. Many of the

girls are very beautiful. They are very quick and intelligent,

with great powers of conversation in the way of humour and

repartee. A large proportion can neither read nor write.

   The great feature the cliff Slieve League on the edge of

Fielen Harbour. There are two great parishes. Glen and
Kilcar. The churches are ten miles apart. The property
                is
                          it

                                                              a
                                                                                a
belongs to Mr. Musgrave, an iron-goods founder at Belfast.
He has between fifty and sixty thousand acres, with popula-
tion of about eight thousand on it. The property runs along

the coast about thirteen miles. There are four brothers and

two sisters, all unmarried, two only have share in the

estate. They purchased  in three lots at different times

under the Encumbered Estates Acts. They are men of great

kindness, thorough business habits, very wealthy, and of the

simplest ways.

They take the utmost interest in the condition and happiness
1892]                POLITICS                                          433

of their people, have no special views of administration,

except those which practical good sense leads them to see
to be likely to help the happiness of a very special race,

specially circumstanced. They form no special method,

therefore, of culture, only are themselves showing what can

be done by reclaiming and tillage of what they keep or have

in hand round their simple shooting-box, where they live

three to four months every summer. Last year no tenant

failed to pay his rent, and some paid in advance. Agitators

have been down and failed to make way with them.

The Ulster custom prevails to the full. Yesterday a tenant

sold his farm of five acres by auction, and obtained forty

years purchase of the regular rental. I gather from con-

versation with several that their idea is that their farms are

truly their own, and the landlord's relation to them is a sort

of just- tolerated eccentricity.                        it it,the Landlord
   The priests will not allow, if they can help

to purchase the tenant-right, for fear he should close the

farm by adding to another. This four shillings 'smoke
               is
money' their income in part, and diminution in populationit
       I a is
by emigration      of course fatal to it. Besides, they have

large fees on all ordinances of the Church. For instance,

every one who attends funeral has to place sixpence on the
                     a

coffin-plate as priest-money, and the other day popular
                                                                is
man's plate-money gave £14 5s. The special priest of               aa

Carrick, Father Goddard,      liberal and educated man,
                              is                                       a

                                 It a

                                         is
'temperance* man, and refuses to join the Land League.

But his curate does join it.                 said that                 part of

their policy to have this difference of action in order that they

may have string on each bow.  I              cannot say more than the

fact. The motive do not know, even there be one.
               I                             if

While was at Carrick the Belfast Harbour Commis- a

sioners were there, eight in number, on visit to Mr. Mus-

grave. One of them            the builder of the famous White
                   a

                          is
Star, Mr. Harland, hard-headed, powerful man, very wealthy,

employing 5,000 shipwrights, living chiefly on his land

and building yards of thirty-five acres.     I          had much con-
                                                I
versation with him and the Musgraves in great detail on the

whole Irish question. The impression have received may

on the whole be thus summed up.

                             Ff
434  HENRY ACLAND         [1883-

   The Land Act ' is a good, beneficent, useful Act. It will
work well. There will be no cessation of agitation by reason
of it. It will be set forth as a concession to provoke and
obtain new demands. The priests will foster the agitation
partly for reasons I have hinted above, partly because their
power depends on their leading ignorant members. The
more sensible farmers, even the smallest, are, or will be,

convinced of the wisdom of the Act and its justice. In so

far as they can be brought to resist the religious influence
of indulgences, masses, and terror of future suffering they
will be for law and order. The only prospect of peace in

the country depends, perhaps, on the development of manu-
factures, or of agriculture, by English capital and workmen,
who will set an example of success which the natives will

follow. If the government is ' firm ' (whatever that may be

in detail) this last may proceed. Whatever tends to alarm
the capitalist tends to throw the country into anarchy. The

Musgraves on the whole, as capitalists and landlords, are
hopeful. But they say Belfast and Ulster are more self-
reliant and independent than the rest of Ireland, and they

only speak for themselves. Parnell is accounted a man of
singular ability, not yet fully discounted, and of rare deter-
mination. He does not wish for actual separation. But he
is not to be trusted in his statements of his real objects.

  If the small farmers had their farms in fee, the rougher

parts of the population would be no better off. The distress
last year^ was great, starvation of individual families was

impending in Donegal or elsewhere. But many self-seeking

persons in every station administered, or tried to have ad-
ministered, the relief funds in a way not according to actual
necessity, but for mean motives of patronage. The priests
have taken a great distrust of, almost aversion to, Mr. Glad-

stone. Commercial and business men do not go this length,
but many think both him and Mr. Forster too emotional, and
therefore dangerous. They think that the adoption of a £4
franchise proposed by Mr. Forster may lead to an absolute

catastrophe, and make it necessary for the English Parlia-

ment to exclude the Irish Members. To all this I might

     1 Of 1881.  « i88o.
1892]                      POLITICS                          435

add much derived from various quarters. I can give you

authority for every statement, that is the authority of the

person and his opinion.                                      I

   I shall to-morrow, D.V., be Vv'ith the Bishop of Derry.

purposely write this now, because I know his opinions to be

much less bright than these, and I like to give you these first.

PS. Would you send this to the Dean of Christ Church,
                   '
*to  be forwarded          returned  to you)?
                     (and
I think it right on reading this letter to say two things :

ist. That the whole of this is derived from a most, perhaps

the most, peaceable part of the country.

2nd. That determined separatist, disloyal republican

agitators are and will be permeating the whole country.

   The series of events which follow^ed the passing of
the Land Act, and culminated in the Phoenix Park

murders, severely shook Acland's faith in the Govern-
ment ; and in common with a large number of Liberals
he felt much sympathy with Mr. Forster on his
enforced resignation of the Irish Secretaryship. Acland

had got to know him well through various Parlia-

mentary inquiries in which they had been associated
together. And when on the assassination of Lord
Frederick Cavendish, Mr. Forster bravely offered to

step back into the gap, he drew up a letter tendering
'with no allusion to party or to politics' the hearty
thanks of certain of the resident graduates for ' your
recent pubhc conduct'

  A severer test of his constancy to Mr Gladstone was

yet to come. Gordon's heroic stand at Khartoum and
the failure of the relieving force to arrive in time
moved him intensely and painfully. He had no

previous acquaintance with the General, though he
had once seen him at Exeter ; but as the long-drawn
agony of Khartoum gradually revealed to England the
nature of the man whom she was sacrificing, Acland's

interest in Gordon as a man and a soldier was aroused

more and more. When the end came he felt the loss

of one whom he had come to regard as a personal
                                   F f2
436  HENRY ACLAND                     [1883-

friend quite as keenly as the national disgrace. In
the previous year he had been anxious to find if there

were any of his hero's relatives to whom he could

possibly be of comfort or service in their anxiety, and,

in this way he became acquainted with Miss Gordon.

It was a friendship which endured for the remainder

of her life. He became a constant visitor at her house :

he records how Miss Gordon * showed me his letters,

papers, treasures, room, and his Thomas-a-Kempis,

worn and thumbed, which he had all through his first
                                      too astonishing, " of
Soudan Governorship.      It is all    When Miss Gordon
whom the world was not  worthy ! " '

was preparing her brother's letters for the press, the

proof-sheets passed through his hands, and one of his

most valued possessions was a contour map of Jerusalem,

drawn by Charles Gordon and presented to him by

Prebendary Barnes.

In the spring of 1886 Sir Henry Acland paid a visit

to the East, accompanied by his eldest son. Nearly

fifty years had elapsed since the Pembroke cruise, and

he was now for the first time to penetrate to Egypt and

the Holy Land. With the former of these countries

he had many associations of interest, for his son

Theodore had recently served in the Khedivial service

as principal army medical officer. Egypt itself was

still in the earliest stages of the British occupation :

the withdrawal of our troops was regarded as a mere

matter of time, possibly a very short time, and, so far

from the reconquest of the Soudan being in the pur-

view of practical politics, the Khalifa's unbroken forces

were a standing menace to the civilization of the Nile

Valley. But none the less Sir Evelyn Baring, to give

Lord Cromer his then title, was laying the foundations

of Egyptian prosperity, and the introductions with

which Acland was furnished gave him ample opportunity

of watching the beginnings of what was destined to be

the most remarkable triumph of British administrative

skill. Now, as ever, he was a voluminous corre-
1892]                 EGYPT                                                 437

spondent, and the following letters, selected out of a
large number received by his family, reveal him to us
little changed in essentials from the Oxford under-
graduate who had described the plains of Troy and
sketched the Seven Churches of Asia. It should be
added that during his stay at Cairo he was the means
of rendering professional services to one of Sir Evelyn

Baring's children, which were never forgotten by either
of the parents, and led to a warm friendship.

My dearest Children,         Cairo, March 14, 1886.

      The last week has not diminished in its varied intensity.
We reached Cairo on Friday night, having left Suez after
a fortnight's stay. We go to the baths of Helouan, about an

hour from here up the Nile, to-morrow, and by Thursday
shall decide on our future course. It is tempting to go up

the Nile, but it probably is not now a very restful per-
formance, and if that is not done we think of going to

Jerusalem.

   Now for the week's tale. First I visited the Arab and the
French hospitals with Miss Doulton, it being rather quaint
that I should act as guide to a resident. The Arab hospital

was interesting for its cases, and, on the whole, for the care

bestowed on the poor creatures by the benevolent doctor, an

Egyptian Copt. I learnt several things of interest in the
management of the people, proper only for medical ears.
I made an expedition one morning with Mrs. Wheeler, and

one or two others to see an obelisk, or landmark, left by

Darius, when he made a canal to unite the Mediterranean

and the Red Sea. Of these canals there seem to have been

three constructed at different times. One by Rameses II or

Sesostris, about 1300 b.c. Then Pharaoh Necho made one, or
began and Darius completed it. Nothing more interest-
ing than the tracing these great workers from generation to
generation on this narrow track of land which was the means
of land communication between Asia and Africa. We found
the broken obelisk which had been seen by Lesseps and

Sayce, but we had not in truth expected to find from all we
       it,
                                                                    is
                                                                        it
438  HENRY ACLAND  [1883-

heard, and, it being very hot, I did not take materials for

making a cast of the inscription.
   This was on Tuesday, and on the next day we had a short

donkey ride in the desert. On Thursday we left Suez ; I had
become quite attached to it and the people. The hot, dusty
journey of eight hours tired us both, notwithstanding the
excitement of passing out of the desert into the fertile land of
Goshen, the scene of the cares, the sorrows, and the deliver-
ance of the children of Abraham. And so we reached the
City of Caliphs and of Pharaohs, of Mahomedans, Copts, and
Egyptians, and the centre now of England's external policy,
her exhibited courage, force, and disastrous vacillation. We

found in Shepheard's some we knew, and soon knew more.

Between soldiers, sailors, and philosophers, Willy and I soon
light on our mental legs. We went the next morning to the

Boulak Museum, going ^^«^ra//y through the whole collection

so as to see what might be fit for us to attempt to study an-

other day. To be placed among many thousand objects perfect

after their kind, exhibiting life and manners extending back

6,000 years, is a sensation at once humiliating at the shortness
of life, and elevating in the thought of what blessings and

high aims have been bestowed on mankind.

   After luncheon we called on General Grenfell at Sir Frede-
rick Stephenson's house, and drove to the citadel. The
military hospital is placed in a splendid palace. No soldiers

were ever in such airy and sumptuous quarters, a magnificent

view over countless domes and minarets and the Pyramids

of Gizeh ; the streak of the Nile all glowing with the setting
sun was a sight not to be forgotten. And so ended the walk.

In the morning of Friday early I had the blessing and peace

of an early service and remained quiet afterwards in my
room. Later we called on Sir Henry Drummond Wolff, and
while with him the Minister of Education, a man of great

intelligence and suavity of speech, came in, and this led to
a conversation on the aims of modern education and the

 relations of England and Egypt ; we drove afterwards along
 the Shubra Avenue, which seemed to be the ' correct ' thing for

strangers, though I should not do it again. It was a long,
 dusty drive of which the point was to meet the Khedive,

 which we did, surrounded by his outriders. One thing was
1892]  EGYPT                            439

worth seeing, the groups of Bougainvillas hanging from the

palace in clusters as large as a tent. Anything so magnificent
in the world of flowers I have never beheld.

    Yesterday (Monday) we went at 7.30 to a review in which
Egyptians and English troops were in fact practising together.
Several hundred ' dummies ' were placed in a strong position
on a hill, and every operation of attacking them was gone

through both by artillery, infantry, and cavalry. The

practice was very striking, but we were obliged to leave

before the officer had examined the dummies to see the

execution done. The artillery firing began at about 2,000
yards. The camel corps, five camels to a gun, were
splendid. We were with General Grenfell almost the whole
time. The position was in the desert outside Abbasiyeh, the
place where the Turks first gained possession of Egypt,
where the French under Napoleon defeated them, where

General Wolseley's cavalry passed on the famous night when
Cairo and Arabi woke to find that the English were in pos-
session of the citadel -- the battle of Zagazig' not being yet
known -- a magnificent feat of confidence and skilled daring.
And close by was the building, the scene of Theodore's valued

work.

   We left to go to luncheon with Sir H. Drummond Wolff

and to call on General Stephenson, and shortly after came
away with the chief engineer of the railways to Helouan,

where we are to remain the week. We are in an excellent
hotel kept by a German, not crowded. We look over the
desert to the Nile and beyond the Pyramids of Memphis,
Abusir, and Ghizeh. Lateen sails stream up the Nile along

its silver streak three miles off.

   In my next I will try to tell you some impressions of Arab
and Egyptian life. It is all like a dream. I am not clear
whether I am still a John Bull, or a soldier, or an official, or
a servant of the Pharaohs. Willy goes steadily on mean-

while and acts as ballast. He don't see the good of them

all. They are a dirty lot, and ought to dress better, and
keep their mosques and places cleaner. He sees nothing

anywhere at all equal to Holnicote, and he can't tell why we

   ' Known to history as Tel-el-Kebir.  Zagazig is about fifteen
miles from the field of battle.
440  HENRY ACLAND          [1883-

all talk so much. I trust you are all well. I shall, God

willing, be back the first week in May. Whether for full
work or not, I know not, and leave this in peace and trust.

                                               Your loving Father.

TM,, y dearest ^Children,  Jaffa, March 2Q^, 1886.

     I shall endeavour this week to note daily some things

for you. We have landed in Palestine. On Sunday after-

noon the 27th, after service at the Dutch consulate, and

a visit to the Arab hospital, we embarked in the Austrian

steamer Ch'o. Some of the passengers were known to us.

Most were going to Jerusalem. As we were to arrive at six,

and land immediately if we could, we went to bed early.

We had no berths, but after a time two were found in the
steerage. I slept till three bells struck. I thought this was
5.30, and got up. I wound my way through the mass of Arabs

and Syrians lying on the deck, and got on to the forecastle.
It was a cloudless morning : the sea smooth, the stars neither

bright nor dim after the gale. We are nearing the Holy

Land. It cannot be seen, but as Peter saw the stars from

Joppa, or Abraham, or any of the pure eyes which from the

inland hills had beheld them, so I saw them. I knelt on the

deck praying I might be worthy, and forgiven as Peter. And
then I went to my berth. It struck four bells, two o'clock, not
six -- and I tried to sleep. In time we rose, and had some

coffee at six. There was a great surf, yet by steering

between the reefs we could land. Such a yell and din I never

heard, nor such scuffle as we were handed into the pitching

boats, and so safely landed. And there on the quay were

merchants, and negroes, Syrians, Egyptians, and Turks, men,
women, and camels in wild jostling. In time we got our

luggage. I made sketches while waiting, having read the

simple, and because simple majestic, recital of St. Peter's
vision, his doubts, his lesson, his obedience, his account of

the whole transaction to the incredulous disciples, their

conviction that he had done well, the opening henceforward

of the door of the Church to you and to me, to the Gentiles.

And so we went on to seek some food, and then to Mr. Hall,

the clergyman of the Church Missionary Society, to his

school, and his hospital, well managed by Miss Newton
1892] VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND  441

and other ladies, and found the Syrian doctor at work with
a Smith and Beck on a case of Haematuria. He showed me

various eye affections, locomotor ataxy, and a bad case of
tumour. Thus refreshed we went for another meal, got two

horses and a cart for our luggage and rode towards Jeru-
salem, to sleep four hours on at Ramleh, The market full
of the strange and coloured dresses of the tiller of the soil

in the crowded place, the jolting of the camels, the lofty
Judaean fig hedges, the palm trees, the groves of orange
trees in flower and in fruit perfuming the air afar, the break-
ing out suddenly of the view into the richly tilled plain of

Sharon, are scenes to be seen to be realized, seen not to be

forgotten.

   Last night I had read in the cabin two or three pages of
Arthur Stanley's Sinai and Palestine, his first emotions on
nearing Jerusalem. They are at the end of the introduction,
and worth your perusal. Would I could attain to a measure
of the holy temper of this noble man. We are now going

to bed, the first day ended (29th).

   It was a splendid night. The young moon gleamed into
our room. We started from Ramleh at eight, and rode
four hours to Wady Babl, where we halted and had rest and
food. The road and country were quite unlike what I had
imagined the hill country of Judaea. The bottoms of narrow

valley are well cultivated, but all the hillsides are rocky and

bare, and at one point we ascended 2,450 feet, between 700

and 800 feet higher than Dunkery. This is the height of
Jerusalem. There were several ascents and descents into
the wadys, or valleys, two of three miles up and down. At
one point we looked back on the sea beyond Joppa. We
met, constantly, laden camels, and saw various cattle. We

learnt to salute ' Neharah Said ' (may your day be happy), to
the great delight of the people. At the descent of one of the
passes a violent shower of rain and hail fell suddenly on us.

I got into our luggage carriage for shelter, Willy under
umbrella and cloak would ride on, and did. I was not sorry

to have a lift, six hours of riding was enough. The ride
 ended, however, I am not tired. A similar storm broke on
 us at Jaffa yesterday, and people ran in all directions for
 shelter. It is very cold. The roads are inches deep in mud.
442  HENRY ACLAND                           [1883-

When at length we drew near the great city the sun was
down. We heard on the way there was no shelter to be got.

Some people who came with us to Jaffa would go through

yesterday, and only reached Jerusalem at 3 a.m. to-day, and
then had to go into tents in drenching rain. When we were

twenty minutes off we met, at the door of a Jewish convent,
two ladies whom we had known at Port Said coming out

of the city unable to have rooms. We might get in there.
It was dark. We did, and sleep in a stone room, stone floors

and wet, and no fire ; but we had had a kind reception and

a good dinner with these two ladies and six Americans who

were in the like case, and so I said there is an earthly as

well as a spiritual struggle in Jerusalem.  God bless both

to us all. And now I go to bed.

   March 30. Our vaulted chamber is good for hot summer,
bad for stormy winters, and we left early to seek where we

could dwell awhile. After search we have taken rooms

in the ' Mediterranean Hotel.' I have had an interview

with Mr. Kelk of the Jewish Mission, and with Mr. Moore,
the Consul. We are now about to move into the city, and
then to ride to Bethlehem. The country about Jerusalem

is like and unlike what I expected. Unlike in this that I had

no idea that the ' hills round about Jerusalem ' were eleva-

tions round a plateau higher by several hundred feet than

the top of Dunkerry, as I remarked of a pass yesterday.
   I shall not attempt any account of my first feelings on

waking this morning and feeling that I was truly near to

Calvary, and to Bethlehem, with all that was wrought before,

between, and after them. I am thankful to have gone

through Egypt, without which Palestine is scarcely to be
understood. The psalms in which David recounts the

Jewish story get an intense force by seeing through Egypt
the formation of the Jewish Church. But it seems almost
a sacrilege to speak. I hope that to-morrow I shall be

allowed to see the Mount of Olives. The entrance from this

ride is beautiful, but it is not the Mount of Zion. I hear now

this must be posted at once, or a week be lost. Prebendary

Barnes most kindly and thoughtfully has written me here.

God be with you.

   We expect to embark at Jaffa on the i6th for Alexandria.
1892] VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND                           443

We shall call to see if there be any telegram at each place,

for no letter can now reply.

                                                 Your loving Father.

My dearest Children,            Jerusalem, April 2, 1886.

      We moved from the Friendly Jews' Home on Monday
to an hotel inside the walls. And to-morrow we go to a

convent for quiet, unable to endure the bad food and rattle

of forty tourists at every meal. We made some visits on

Monday morning to the convent, the Rev. M. Kelk,

Missionary to the Jews, and Mr. Chick, the architect of the

Mosque of Omar; and in the afternoon we rode round the

north of the city and up the Mount of Olives. Yesterday we

rested the morning and spent the afternoon in the Church of
the Holy Sepulchre, and towards dusk visited the wailing

place of the Jews. To-day we rode to Bethlehem. We have

seen many ruins, known and unknown, and have a very

intelligent youth as our guide wherever we go. I thus

have generally related our daily, ordinary life, and how to
give a truer or fuller account I know not. In the first place,

I will say at once that I am powerless to express the effect

which the entrance into Jerusalem, or the first sight of or
                                is

                                                     I is

                                                                                   it,

                                                                          It a
the result of that more exact knowledge which these days of

quiet study have produced. The spiritual mixed with the

material, the true with the untrue, the old with the new, in

manner wholly indescribable by my pen.  could speak

about         bit by bit. This  partly owing to my imperfect
is

    I

          it
knowledge of the Old Testament and of the topography.

requisite to know the former as part of your whole nature;

and should advise any traveller before coming to Jerusalem

to master Stanley's Sinai and Palestine -- one of the most
lovely books in the English language -- and the results of the

Palestine Exploration Society.

But four days have brought about wonderful change in us
                                I

                                           a

                                                 it

                                                            I

                                                                                    a
both.II       have not been able to do so much as Willy. He

has great topographical observation and quickness.  got

chill, think, on the way from Jaffa, or may be only the

cold and wet of our position, as said nearly 2,500 feet above

the sea there are frequent heavy storms, and on Friday we
       ;

got wet again on our way back from Bethlehem. The food
444  HENRY ACLAND     [1883-

was improved after I began my letter, and we decided toit,
               a
remain and not to go to the unknown, though the convent -- aa
Franciscan convent, the 'Casa Nuova' -- was beautifully clean.
                   '
It seemed to us quite possible that we should go back to Jaffa
to-morrow, if the weather remained so bad, and so we decided

to stay in some better rooms which were offered to us.

   And now as to Jerusalem. We have been here long
enough to make every locality of which the history is certain
part of our life. We have been on the Mount of Olives, in
sight of the Dead Sea, on the road to Bethany, we have traced
the spot where our Lord beheld the city and wept, we have
passed upon the lofty knoll of Golgotha, have gone through
all the traditional sites of the Church of the Sepulchre, the
stone of embalming, the pillar of the flogging, the marks of
the triple cross, the place of the entombment. We have visited
Bethlehem and seen what may have been the stable of the
inn, and what was the abode of Jerome, where he dwelt
and wrote for thirty years. We have touched the rock on
which the Holy of Holies rested, and penetrated, under the
guidance of the privileged architect, every recess of the Mosque
of Omar. We have seen a Muslim guard, with fixed bayo-
nets, watching day and night by the cradle of the Nativity,
and a company of Turkish Muslim soldiers in the Church of

the Sepulchre dividing the Christians of the Eastern and
Latin Churches lest they fall on one another, and, besides

their personal slaughter, destroy as few years ago they

did the Chapel of the Nativity at Bethlehem, leaving total
wreck. We have heard the pathetic wailings of the Jews of

every condition and every country, as they caress the outer
wall and foundations of the Temple, within whose precincts
the fanaticism and savagery of Mahomedans forbid their
entry. We believe that we have trodden the ways that our
Lord went in Kidron, and towards Bethany, and to Calvary,
and have seen Mount Moriah from the same spot from which
He beheld it. The utter destruction and desolation of deso-

lations, the abomination of abominations, the overthrow so

that not one stone should stand on another above the hidden

foundation we daily shared, in beholding the filth and the
squalor that lies on the surface of the debris of the joy of the
whole earth,' which has fallen and accumulated to more than
1892] VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND                       445

100 feet of thickness round the slopes and valleys of the
Mount ; and much else it would weary you to record. We
have been guided by the kindness of several -- Mr. Kelk, the
Missionary to the Jews; Mr. Moore, the experienced and

obliging British Consul ; and above all Mr. Chick, the most

learned and charming architect, who for forty years has seen,

known, and noted all that could be seen, learnt, and recorded

by inquirers of every nationality, occupation, and character.

   And only now one word more. There are general features

which I must record at once, (i) The simple devotion,

artless, cheerful, loving devotion of those bands of pilgrims,

from every nation where Christ is adored. (2) The, to me,
unequalled picturesque sobriety and gorgeousness without

tawdry effect of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and the
rare grace and loveliness of the platform of the Haram, and
the Mosque of the Rock (falsely called the Mosque of Omar) ;

and (3) the strange contrast of the dirt and mud and busy
idleness of the motley peoples that, from Liberia to Spain,
mingle as pilgrims in crowds with the Jews, the Turks, the

Syrians and Bedoweens, and jostle in the steep and saturated

steps that are counted for streets in modern Jerusalem ;

the contrast, I say, of all these, with the sense of sacred and
spiritual life that, pervading all I have mentioned and much

more besides, would seem to hush all thought, and quell all

words of modern things.

   And the early Christians were assuredly right, when they
clung almost wholly to the words and the life of their

Redeemer, and not to the earth, and the place on which they

were set forth to men.   Your ever loving Father.

My dearest Children,     Jerusalem, April 9, 1886.

      This may be the last from Jerusalem, The weather
is changed --yesterday and to-day have been quite fine and

warm. I am already better, as are the other invalids.

Dr. Liddon arrived on the 7th (my father and mother's
wedding-day). We met them coming in as we were strolling
outside the Jaffa Gate. He was going to encamp high
up on the Mount of Olives. He has four tents, thirteen
446                     HENRY ACLAND        [1883-

horses, and twelve servants. I did not know him, en-

veloped in a Syrian head-dress and as brown as an Arab.

Yesterday we went up to Olivet in the morning, and walked

and talked on the summit, looking over the wondrous scene

towards the city on one hand, and to Moab eastward. And

after we went together past Gethsemane, by the plain where

Stephen was stoned, to where we believe, against old tradition,

was Calvary. And we went to the tomb beneath, hewn in

the rock which is now being carefully exhumed. And then

we conducted him to the Damascus Gate, and left him to

enter the city alone with his guide. We rode through the

town and the rocks for an hour, then called on Mr. Wilson,

the Church Missionary Chaplain and lately at Uganda in
Central Africa, and so by the Jaffa Gate home. It was
a fine evening. The beauty and loveliness of the hills round

about Zion grow hourly upon me. I thank God for the sun

and the brightness, and the bursting flowers, for the shooting

of the leaves of the fig-tree, and the scarlet anemones that

are trying to brighten the earth.

   To-day we decided that I should be brave, and that we

would ride to see Solomon's Pool, an hour beyond Beth-

lehem. We started before 10, and on the way visited the
Eye Hospital and Dr. Ogilvie. It is an excellent and most

valuable institution, doing endless good, truly giving sight to

the blind. The Pools of Solomon are reservoirs of water,

probably  (it         not certain) first built by Solomon to supply
              is
his garden and bring water to the court of the Temple.a

They, in his day, must have been difficult engineering
                              a
                                    a
work, bringing the water along covered conduit, round

several wadys, some fifteen miles. We take food with us

on such an excursion. We ate under the walls of Jewisha

castle, resting by the Pool.  was very hot. We returned
                              a It
through Bethlehem, and halted there to talk with Miss
                                     is
Jacombe about school which               maintained there for the

Christian children by English ladies. They have been

allowed to buy land to build new school open for boarders,

but the Porte refuses the firman to erect the building.

There are British and American schools in many parts of
Syria -- the latter are doing great educational work at

Beyrout, training medical men, natives. The amount in-
        1892] VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND                                 447

        deed of missionary work and educational progress is very

        great. The Porte is alarmed, and is closing the schools.

        I can see that the policy of England, in supporting the Porte,

        is much disapproved by some earnest men -- men earnest in
        their desire to promote the growth of the Kingdom of Christ,

        and in no narrow or sectarian spirit. They think that England

        should have taken possession of Egypt, and have allowed

        Russia to have Constantinople, and so, from the Danube to

        Aden, Christianity would have its hold against the fanaticism

        of the Moslem. The relations of Islam and the Western world

        are such as should occupy the mind of every English states-

        man who has either his country or mankind at heart.

          Sunday. This morning I have had the blessing once more

        of joining the early Holy Communion in the Christ Church,

        and since then I have been sitting alone in the Church of the

        Sepulchre reading, and seeing the simple devotions of the

people of every tongue, and people, and nation ; and there,

too, I read Keble's solemn words for the fifth Sunday in Lent.
How strangely appropriate ! I stayed through the Coptic

service -- a wild, rude thing. Afterwards we went to the

        Mount of Olives to spend the rest of the day with Canon

        Liddon, taking with us the American Consul, and a clergyman,
        Mr. Reeves. We had lunch in his hut, and then a walk on

the Mount, and then came home. The view from the Mount

of Olives is indescribable ; every hundred yards it is a newit,
picture. The city lies over against enclosed in its lofty

walls from north to south, separated by the valley of Kidron.

It a a 'Yea, mark well her bulwarks, and behold the course thereof,*

        strictly unbroken, the city within, the great Mosque of Omar

        and the Church of the Sepulchre surrounding all. And now
        Tuesday -- really the day approaches when we are to leave.

        To-morrow, alas  !       God will, we go down to Jaffa.  aI  have

                           if

                               it
        been so ailing that was doubtful  a iIf  could move, having

          third sharp attack since we moved here. But we take

        carriage, and hope to reach Jaffa in day.   I  am to see the

        Consul's wife who ill there, the Consul going with us.
                         is

        And so this eventful chapter of my life draws to close.

          was yesterday well concluded by long interview with
                                          a

the Patriarch, and another with the Pasha, governor of the

        province, both men with whom was real privilege to
                                   it            a
448  HENRY ACLAND                                 [1883-

converse, though so dififerent. The Patriarch is a splendid

man in appearance. He received me with exceeding kindness,

in consequence of some private letters about me ; he talked

of the state of Christianity, of the mixture of all questions

here with irrelevant politics of nationalities, and explained

the great difficulties of the Syrian Christians in consequence

of the relations to the great Latin and Eastern or Greek

Churches. The conversation was very interesting in all ways,

being carried on through the Archimandrite, his secretary,

who spoke English well, and reads it so fully as to have read

all the articles of Mr. Gladstone and Huxley in the Nineteenth

Century. It was strange to go to the Governor, or Pasha,

for a similar private experience in French. It turned out

\I knew his father in the Turkish fleet in 1839 'Ami de mon

pere!' he cried out, clapping his hands. He is a person

of middle age, barely forty, active, spare, keen, full of

intelligence and benevolence, and sorely perplexed by the

political complications which it is his to watch. He is the

Governor here, and an earnest Moslem. He marvels at and

is shocked by the differences of those who, ' Christian only in

name, show none of the characteristics of Christianity.' He

spoke freely of education. 'The education of the masses

should be moral, to teach them to be just, honest, true,

merciful in their public and private capacity alike. It is only

for the experts that science is needed or desirable. Qualify

them to be good and earnest in their labour, and simple of

life.' He spoke with fervour of the character of the peasants

and their contented lives. God prosper his benevolent aims !

Farewell, my own dearest children. May we be all to the

end soldiers of the Cross !  Your loving Father.

   During his sojourn in Cairo, Acland had been much
impressed by the appalling death-rate of that city, over

fifty-five per thousand, at a time when no epidemic was

in existence. His early travels in Asia Minor had
convinced him that some of the greatest cities of the

   ^ He was no other than Fehmi Bey, the Capitan Pasha who
had been Acland's host both at sea and in Constantinople.
1892] VISIT TO THE HOLY LAND  449

old world, Sardis, Laodicea, Ephesus, Hierapolis, and

very possibly Nineveh and Babylon, owed their desola-

tion to pestilence quite as much as to the sword. In

\a letter occupying a column of the Times he depicted

the sanitary conditions of Egypt, and the efforts which

were being made under the new regime to undertake
the health administration of an urban and rural popula-
tion whose dependence on the waters of the Nile

rendered its condition so unique. He set out in some
detail the work of the great Government departments,
of the public health bureau, the State-supported hospitals,
and the system of engineering control which regulated
the supply of water alike for purposes of agriculture
and of health. ' Their success,' he wrote, ' depends
mainly on three factors -- on adequate funds, hitherto
unattainable ; on the power of the Government to deal

adequately with private rights and public prejudices;
and on the condition that good work in this department,
as in others, will not be abandoned.'

   His acquaintance with Eastern peoples enabled him
to appreciate the difficulties of the task, and the extra-
ordinary merit of the work which Sir Evelyn Baring
and his little band of English doctors and engineers
had already begun to accomplish. He felt, however,

that, notwithstanding the establishment of the large
medical school at Kasr-el-din, the means of teaching

were not equal to the clinical opportunities there

afforded, and he enforced the urgent need for an
immediate supply of capable medical officers. As a

possible road to this end he strove, with the approval
of Lord Cromer, but without success, to obtain per-
mission for a certain number of Egyptian doctors to be

allowed to go through the Netley course. Netley was

an institution in which he had always taken great
interest, from the days of Sidney Herbert and the
Crimean War. He had known and valued highly its
eminent teacher Dr. Parkes, and when, in 1876, there

                             ^ May II, 1886.

                                       Gg
450              HENRY ACLAND    [1883-

had been an idea of doing away with the medical school
there, he had, on the suggestion of Miss Florence

Nightingale, entered upon a long correspondence with

Lord Cranbrook, the Secretary for War. Miss Night-

ingale had also written to him at great length with
regard to the transfer of the naval medical cadets
from Netley to Haslar in 1881, and he had communi-

cated freely on that subject both with the Admiralty
and the War Office. His intimacy with Dr. Billings,
the leading American authority on all that pertains to
army medical administration, had served to strengthen
his convictions, and when again, in 1887, the abolition
of Netley as a training-school found advocates in influ-

ential quarters, he did not hesitate, as the following
letter will show, to lay his views before the highest
military authorities.

MTi/ry dear LT ord W1X7olseley,  Oxford,5^/«A^; 15o,) 1887t .

     I was greatly obliged by your kindness on Wednesday.

The matter is a grave one, both as regards the army gene-

rally, and as regards Netley. I said I would write you two

or three brief statements.

  ist. I believe Sidney Herbert was certainly right when,

thirty years ago, he established a supplementary school for

surgeons joining the army.

2nd. Great progress has been made in civil medical educa-

tion and examination since this act of Sidney Herbert's.

   3rd. It is therefore possible that what was then necessary

for the army is unnecessary now. But to draw this conclusion

requires the most careful consideration, and dispassionate

inquiry, from persons who have no local interests, and have

a large knowledge of the means of medical education -- notably,

I should say, Professor Marshall in London, Sir William
Turner in Edinburgh, and Sir James Paget.

   4th. I have no military experience, except from reading
and conversation, but I do not believe that, at present,

ordinary medical practitioners can, without some special

training superadded, be thoroughly qualified for army and

Indian service.
1892] NETLEY HOSPITAL  451

   5th. I suppose that the miHtary hospitals in India might
train for 'the Indian medical service.' But this is a question
of convenience, and even so a home school would, if now

required, be still required.

   6th. I am quite aware of the extreme difficulty of satisfying
the desires of the department ; and I have always believed

that a mixture of the civil with the military surgeons must

be advisable, from the reasons you gave to me ; and for

others which I imagine rather than know.
   Once more I greatly thank you for your kindness now,

as on other occasions. It came on me the other day as
* a thunder-clap ' that the institution, which I imagined needed

help and development, might be done away with instead !

                 I am,

                         My dear Lord Wolseley,
                             Your Lordship's faithful and obliged,
                                                 Henry W. Acland.

  I spoke yesterday morning about the matter with Lord

Stanley, coming up from Hatfield.

   The appointment of Mr. W. H. Smith to the War

Office for a few months in 1886 brought Acland into
personal touch with the head of that department. The

two families were united by a double bond ; in 1885

Sir Henry's youngest son, Alfred, had married one
daughter of Mr. Smith, and in 1887 another became
the wife of his eldest. The friendship, which was
the natural consequence of these successive alliances,
became one of the greatest pleasures of Sir Henry's
later years, and the death in 1891 of Mr. Smith, pre-

maturely worn out in his country's service, was a source
of no ordinary sorrow to him. Though there was little

superficial resemblance in the careers and the activities
of the two men, they had many points of contact, and

the character of each rested on he same religious basis.

Sir Herbert Maxwell has told how the cherished wish

of the future member for Westminster was to be ad-
mitted to Holy Orders, and how it was abandoned in

                                Gg2
452  HENRY ACLAND  [1883-

 obedience to his father. We have seen that, on more
 than one occasion, Henry Acland had expressed regret
that he had been unable to follow in the steps of his
friend Canon Courtenay. Both of them remained
throughout life devoted sons of the Church of England,

each, in his way, and according to his opportunities,
giving practical effect to his principles. And they had

a common taste for the sea and for yachting, though

Acland could not indulge it on the same scale as the
owner of the Pandora. They took a mutual pleasure
in each other's society; Mr. Smith was a frequent visitor

at Broad Street, and, as we have seen, his presence
would give his host an excuse for one of those social
gatherings which he loved ; while Acland found Green-
lands, with its lawns and the ever-shifting life of the

Thames, a delightful and restful retreat. They corre-
sponded freely, and their letters, some of which have
been already published by Sir Herbert Maxwell, throw
a side-light on the inner life of a Cabinet Minister, and
indicate the closeness with which Acland followed the

course of political events.

    Indeed, politics had come to interest him more and
more as years rolled on. The Home Rule policy of
Mr. Gladstone had struck him with utter dismay, and,

as we know, he had more than a skin-deep knowledge

of Ireland, its problems and its people. Sir Thomas

remained firm, though not without misgivings, we may
believe, to his chieftain, but Henry Acland formally
cast in his lot with the Liberal Unionists. In 1887
the coming of Lord Salisbury to Oxford to address
a political meeting was heralded by the appearance of
a number of black-bordered posters three feet long,
containing the words, ' Lord Salisbury is coming.

Remember Mitchelstown.' Acland, describing himself
as one who understood neither the rules nor tactics of

party strife, enclosed one of these placards with a letter
to Mr. Gladstone, begging him to 'use his influence to
stem the tide of sensational attacks.' Gladstone, as
1892]                             HOME RULE                                 453

was natural, disclaimed all responsibility for the posters,

and in his reply was all kindness and friendship ; but
he insisted on the justice of every word he had used

with regard to Mr. Balfour and his administrative

methods. The letter concluded characteristically with

a disquisition on the original seat and provenance of

the Horse, a byway in Homeric studies which was

just then dividing Mr. Gladstone's attention with

Mitchelstown.

Finally, in 1892, Acland broke through his rule that

doctors should have no politics. Sir George Chesney,

a distinguished soldier and author, but with no local

claims on the constituency, had been chosen as the

Unionist candidate for Oxford. A wave of enthusiasm

for Home Rule seemed to be passing over the country,

and it was known that the contest would be sharp and

doubtful. The Cowley district was believed to be the

key of the position, and here, convinced that it was

a crisis in which the very existence of his country was

at stake, he went down among the electors, and for the

first and last time in his life addressed a political meet-

ing. Sir George Chesney was returned, but only by

\120 votes and it was freely said at the time that no
one but Dr. Acland, whose name had been for so long

a household word among the poorest and roughest of

the Oxford citizens, could have turned the scale.

   But before this he had received a warning that
the infirmities of old age were at hand. All through

his tour in the East he had been suffering much pain

in one of his eyes, the sight of which was gradually

failing him. Though the pain continued on his return

to England and throughout the following year, he

paid no particular attention to until in March, 1888,
                                  a
                                                 it,

                                                              it
haemorrhage supervened, rendering                                 necessary to
a

                               ^
remove the eye without moment's delay. The opera-

tion was most successful, and he retained the sight

of the other until his death. *As for the loss of the

                                  Sir G. Chesney, 3,276 R. Souttar, 3,156.
                                  ;
454  HENRY ACLAND  [1883-

one ray in the double focus, it is nothing/ wrote Ruskin;
'my mother had only one seeing eye for thirty years,
and my two eyes see only double grief.' But the
operation was only the climax of a wearing illness,

and it was some time before Acland was able to return

to Oxford from Southsea, whither he had removed for
change. He had not the philosophy of the old scholar
who, in similar circumstances, thanked God that it was
his ' collating eye ' which was spared to him ; but he

bore the loss without a murmur, and his patience was

touching and inexhaustible. A severe attack of blood-

poisoning at Holnicote in the summer of the same

year prostrated him and caused serious alarm, but he
recovered with wonderful elasticity, and it seemed to
those about him that for the next few years he was
actually stronger and better than he had been before
his operation. But henceforward his life was lived
more quietly: the Sunday evening 'at homes' were

discontinued, and he finally abandoned his medical
practice, save in the case of those who had a special
call upon him.

   His love for the sea was unaltered and unalterable;
it was still the most bracing of all medicine, but he
found himself less capable of undergoing the respon-
sibility and hard work of saihng his own yacht. It

was a terrible wrench when he was compelled to lay
her up for the last time and finally sell her. One of
his sons has set down some memories of his father

as a master-mariner which are here reproduced ; and the

frontispiece of this volume, which represents Sir Henry
in his oilskins and sou'-wester, hoping for the best but

prepared for the worst, is thought by his family to be
the happiest of all the likenesses of him which exist.

   ' " Sailors are lovable creatures," writes Dr. Acland
to his wife on one occasion ; and verily for sailors and
fishermen and for the sea and all that belongs to it
1892]  THE YACHT  455

he ever felt an intense love and admiration. He was

fortunate, too, in having from his earliest years frequent
opportunities of gratifying this feeling, though as years
went by the ties of professional and public work and
the claims of a large family deprived him of all chance
of making a voyage of any length.

   ' It was not quite easy for him to secure the recreation

necessary to counterbalance his laborious life. A

holiday without occupation would have been useless
to a man of his temperament, and a family visit to
the seaside would have been simple boredom, though
he was reluctant to be apart from his children, of whom

whilst at work he necessarily saw very little. A country

house near Oxford was lent to him ^, but was found

to be too near his work, and he did not care for sport.
At last it was decided that yachting should be tried

to see if it would afford the refreshment required.

Accordingly in the summer of 1874 he chartered at
Inverary an iron schooner of fifty tons called the
Aurora. The first start was not promising : the vessel

was crank and not too well found, there was difficulty

in obtaining a satisfactory crew, and no cook or steward

could be secured at all. However, after sailing from
Inverary to the Gareloch the idea of obtaining a cook

from the Cumberland^ an industrial training-ship on
the Clyde, occurred to him. Application was therefore

made for a boy supposed to have been trained as cook,

and it was hoped in this way to solve the difficulty
and at the same time give the lad a start in life. The

youth was shipped, proved a dismal failure, and had to

be returned to the Cumberlafid after two or three days*

distressing experience of his incapacity.
   ' An adequate crew was eventually got together, and

he started on his first yachting voyage. It extended
all up the West coast of Scotland, and, notwithstanding

discomforts and inconveniences and the proverbial un-
certainty of the weather in that part of the world, proved

                                        ^ See p. 318, supra.
456  HENRY ACLAND                                        [1883-

a brilliant success. From that time onwards, except

during the year immediately preceding Mrs. Acland's

death, till increasing age and infirmity made such a course

impossible, he spent some weeks in each year afloat.

* Encouraged by this first experiment, he determined

to purchase a yacht outright, and in the spring of 1875
he bought the Gertrude, a vessel which so won his

affections that she was constantly referred to both in

conversation and in letters as the Rival of Mrs. Acland

in his affections. She was a fine yawl of eighty tons

yacht measurement, built by Alfred Payne & Sons of

Southampton, and a capital example of the fast cruising

yacht of the day, admirably planned, honestly built, and

well found. Acland's high appreciation of the excellence

of the work in the building and subsequent alterations

of his yacht led in a manner entirely characteristic of

him to a friendship with the elder Mr. Payne, which

outlasted the ownership of the Gertrude and ended only

with Mr. Payne's death.

' As time went on the failure of Mrs. Acland's health,

and the feeling that he was hardly justified in spending

so much money on       recreation,   determined him,     in 1877,
to sell the Gertrude.                wrote his wife, **  that the
                         " I hope,"

touch of sea air will revive you more than the sorrowful

parting with the dear Rival will sadden you." After

the sale of the Gertrude it seemed likely that his

yachting days were over; but about a year after Mrs.

Acland's death he bought the Druid, an east country

yawl of much the same size as the Gertrude, in which,

for the future, though under sadly altered circum-

stances, he took his holidays. This vessel was retained

until at last he found the enjoyment of yachting more

than outbalanced by its cares and responsibilities.

Happily at the time when this came about, his eldest

son was in command of H. M. S. Volage, of the training

squadron, and until he had reached eighty years of

age he frequently made short voyages in her, enjoying

to the full the strenuous life on board a man-of-war.
1892]  THE YACHT  457

   'There is no need to follow each cruise in detail.
He managed thoroughly to explore the dangerous
coast round Ushant, the South and East coasts of

Ireland, and the West coast of Scotland, besides the
English Channel and (in 1876) the shores of Holland,
where thanks to the kindness of Mr. Hutton, the

resident engineer, he was able to study the building of

the great Amsterdam Ship Canal. One trip, however,
that to St. Kilda, though often projected, was never
destined to be realized, and to the last Dr. Acland

was never able to reach the island west of the Heb-

rides which had given a name to his father's yacht.
One of his treasures on board was the chart which had

belonged to Sir Thomas, on which were marked the
positions of the Lady of St. Kilda when more than

forty years previously he had made what was thought
the rather perilous voyage to this outlying part of the
British Isles. Often was this chart produced, laid on

the cabin table, eagerly scanned, and all possibilities
of reaching St. Kilda discussed ; more than once a start

was actually made, but each time the expedition had to

be abandoned.

    ' Acland, as soon as he became a yacht owner, set to

work after his manner to treat yachting not merely
as recreation but as a means by which the bounds of

knowledge for himself and his family might be extended,
and habits of discipline formed. Rules were printed
providing for the maintenance of order among his high-
spirited, and sometimes, it must be admitted, trouble-
some, passengers. Three of the rules will illustrate

what has been said.
    I. Nothing to be left out of place or insecure at any
         time at sea or after dark in harbour.

    10. Gertrude is to obtain information as to sanitary wants
        of fishing villages and fishing populations when-
        ever possible. Friends and crew can help in this.

   11. Books on districts visited and other subjects will

         be available for crew and friends.
458              HENRY ACLAND                  [1883-

* Other rules dealt with such matters as lights, the

use of spirits, divine service on Sundays, the use of

boats, the places on deck where smoking was permitted

was never allowed below), and the time for meals
(it                                            a
and any making fun of these rules was keenly        a
    *
                                                         if ;
          a
                               in
                                            a
silently resented. The writer well remembers bur-

lesque report on the sanitary conditions of smelly
fishing-village, written by some of the party to while

away wet afternoon ashore, and solemnly presented                        '\

on their return  pretended obedience to the tenth

rule. The report was received with eloquent silence

and never referred to again.

     The same serious view was taken of many other

things. For instance screen was devised to shelter

Mrs. Acland from the wind whilst not materially inter-

fering with the view. This was irreverently named
the " plate-warmer " by one of his sons, for bore much
                                               it

                                                                      a
resemblance to that article, which used to occupy con-

siderable space in the kitchens of the time. But the

nickname was little appreciated, being considered

flippant reflection on carefully thought-out device.
   'Acland's desire was to reproduce afloat, mutatis
a
                                           a
mutandis, the life of his home at Oxford. Prayers were

read before breakfast, and at sea on Sundays all hands

that could be spared from deck were assembled for

   short service. A small library of books selected

in view of the proposed cruise was kept on board,
though the very weighty ones, such as the Blue Books
issued by Parliament on the Fisheries in the North Sea

and elsewhere, were not greatly in request. Different

minds take different views, and the delight of an intelli-

gent Dutchman who came on board in the Amsterdam
Canal and was heard to exclaim, after the Blue Books
were shown him " Ah to think of all this splendour
     a

                                         :

                                      in !
for pleasure only," was strong contrast to the attitude
and look of horror upon Mr. Gladstone's face when he

paid visit to the yacht at Dartmouth, and, spying the

said volumes on the cabin locker, marvelled how any
1892]  THE YACHT                                  459

one could willingly take Parliamentary Blue Books

with him on a holiday. Besides literature, music and

singing enlivened time which might otherwise have
passed unoccupied, and none of those who took
their share will ever forget the gracious presence of

Mrs. Acland as she conducted part-songs and glees

with which, sometimes on deck, sometimes in the

cabin, as the weather dictated, the summer evenings

were beguiled.
   * Afloat, however, Acland was first of all a sailor de-

voted to his ship, with intense belief in her capabilities

and delighting in smartness and in any excuse for

"carrying on" if thereby he could outdistance a vessel

of the same size as his own. He took the main share

in the task of navigation, though he had difficulty in

finding a capable skipper who would ordinarily leave
to him all work and responsibility. He often steered
for hours together, directing the setting of the sails

as the wind shifted, and ever anxious to get the best
out of the vessel he loved so well. He delighted in

the study of charts and sailing directions, and by day

or night seemed to keep a watchful eye everywhere,

taking nothing for granted and generally testing himself
all information given by others. The writer has a vivid
recollection of seeing him one rough night in the Irish
Channel, when over seventy years of age, climb to the

cross-trees of the mast to make sure that the bearing

of a light reported had been correctly given ^
   ' " 1 have had a long day," he writes
"having been up at 3 a.m." ; and again,   on one  occasion,
                                                  night was
                                          " Last

one of the most uncomfortable I ever passed at sea.

I was up practically the whole night till six and then
turned in till eight. It never blew hard, but there was

   ^ Such an absorption in detail would sometimes excite remarks
from the passing fishermen, and one day a bargee lazily smoking
his pipe as he leaned on his tiller, hailed him and said, ' Governor,

I want to give you some good advice. Don't you make a toil of your

pleasures.'
460                    HENRY ACLAND             [1883-

a heavy swell from the west, and sometimes we went
ten knots in it and sometimes were becalmed and rolled

wonderfully." His enthusiasm for night watches indeed

led him to rouse his passengers at all hours to catch
sight of a lighthouse or light-ship in the offing, and,
though light-ships were not always an equivalent for

broken dreams, many were the lovely dawns breaking

over grey sliding waves in the cool summer mornings
which rewarded those who learnt to answer promptly
his eager summons to come on deck and see the cloud-
painting of nature.

   ' What faith he had in the handiness of his yacht and

how keen he was in navigating her himself the following
extract from one of his letters will show. Whilst lying

in the harbour at Brest he had agreed with a fisherman

to pilot him out through the goulet

   About 7, no fisherman having appeared, a pilot came off and

told us he was coming, and on my saying that I had engaged

another he curtly said : 'You will not leave the port without
                    '
a  regular  pilot      and then began  various  threats and announce-
                   !

ments that we would not get out alone : and so he departed.

I began to get under way. Then came a douane boat with

a chief officer to say we had not shown our passport, and the

office would not be open till 9. It was generally believed

that 9 being low water we ' would not ' get out, i. e. could

not beat against wind and spring tide through the long narrow

goulet. This was too grave an attack on the Gertrude, so I

landed in a fume, got the passport at 9.15, got under way,

beat out and got through the goulet at 10.30 without pilot

or any help, and having signalled for one to go through the

Ushant Channel and none coming, we went through in safety

and the utmost ease by 6 p.m.

  'A study of the chart of the Ushant Channel shows

that it is a passage full of dangers from rocks and cur-
rents, and the masts of more than one vessel sticking
up helplessly from the water gave ocular proof of the
hidden reefs which lay in wait for unwary mariners.
1892]  THE YACHT  461

    'Whenever Acland was not occupied with navigation

 or saiHng he was probably drawing, for his sketching

materials were seldom out of reach, and if there was

nothing to draw he would get out the dredge which was
part of the yacht's outfit, and after its contents were
emptied on deck he would discourse to all who cared
to listen on the beautiful and marvellous forms of marine

life hauled from the bed of the sea.

    ' The days from morning till evening were anything
but idle. His sons were expected each to take his own
share of work in all circumstances, and friends on

board were given every chance of being useful in some

way or other. Many delightful hours were passed in
mastering the complicated lore of sailor knots, bends,
hitches, Turks' heads, the splicing of ropes, and details
of sea craft too various to enumerate. Even in harbour

he was constantly busy, and the writer has no recollection
of ever seeing him sitting about doing nothing. His first
care was to telegraph to Oxford for letters, and as his
work was never entirely in abeyance the arrival of the
mail sometim-es entailed hours of writing in the pretty
cabin. It was after going ashore that he gave full play
to one of his great characteristics, an extraordinary
faculty of making friends with every one he came across,
and of getting their best out of them, whether out of
the great ones of the land, or artists, fishermen, sailors,

and crofters ; at Abervrach on the Breton coast even

the gendarmes, the Sisters of Charity, and the Parish
Priest were requisitioned and responded willingly, for
his appreciative interest in human affairs was contagious,
and in his presence the world at large seemed full of
men of good-will.

   ' No one ever had greater pleasure in the society of

human beings or was more hospitable ; he was an ex-
cellent host and, when in the mood, a first-rate story
teller. Many were his guests on board, amongst whom
not the least agreeable were two French sculptors with

whom he made acquaintance at Douarnenez. They were
462                HENRY ACLAND                                 [1883-

keenly interested about all things British, and one of

them was anxious to taste real Scotch oatcake, which

he knew only by hearsay. A tin of oatcake was pro-

duced, but having been opened some time previously

the salt sea air had got in, making it pulpy and not at

all nice. On tasting it the Frenchman exclaimed with

a shrug of the shoulders and eyebrows and elevating
the palms of both hands, " Eh ! mon Dieu ! est-ce qu'on

mange 9a en Ecosse     ? Mais c'est du platre :                 c'est du
veritable platre : ce  n'est Hen que du platre
                                                                ! " --and

he proceeded with effusion to wrap up a portion and

stow it in his pocket-book, that his compatriots might

learn by demonstration what the Northern barbarians

of Great Britain were nurtured upon.

   ' It  was with  totheastteencdomthpean"ioPnasrdothnat"  an   expedition was
         by boat                                                St. -Anne de la
made                                                        of

Palude. Landing in a bay amongst rocks, the path led

across sand dunes until suddenly the Chapel of St. Anne

appeared standing on a slope, under the shelter of a

group of wind-swept trees. The spot, usually wild and

desolate enough, is crowded on the festival of the Par-

don with Breton peasants in national costume, kneehng

on the turf of the hillside whilst the great procession

sweeps round the sacred enclosure. Religious obser-

vance however, tempered with worldly considerations,a is,

and at huge fair held further down the slope, sacred

and profane jostled each other with that true mediaeval

incongruity which has survived in this corner of Brittany

through so many centuries.

    '  No manifestation of human emotion, least of all re-

ligious emotion, was indifferent to Acland, and on the

occasion of the blessing of the harbour and shipping

by ecclesiastics he dressed his yacht in honour of the

ceremony. Never did she look prettier than on that

sunny morning, spotlessly clean and trim with all her

bunting flying, bouquets on bowsprit and counter, and

aa  large bunch of golden broom at the mast-head, when

    French official came on deck and ordered Acland to
1892]  THE YACHT  463

take down the decorations. He refused absolutely, and
the official retired only to return in a quarter of an hour

with positive orders to have the decorations hauled
down. In great indignation Acland threatened to tele-

graph to Lord Lyons if another word was said on the

subject, and the official withdrew to show himself no

more. It appeared to be merely a display of spite on
the part of the civil authorities, furious that any honour

should be shown by strangers towards an ecclesiastical

ceremony, and was a remarkable specimen of the un-
lovely bitterness of French sectarian strife.

   'This episode was the only untoward one of the kind
in the course of Acland's cruises, as he ever received

from others the like courtesy which b}^ nature he ex-
tended to all with whom he came in contact, a tradition

of good fellowship which the freemasonr}' of seafaring
folk tends largely to enjoin, and which doubtless led
him to the happy phrase quoted above that " sailors are

lovable creatures \" '

   In illustration of the foregoing pages I venture to

quote in extenso a letter written by Acland to his friend
the Rev. C. R. Conybeare on the occasion of the trip
to Brittany described above. It is interesting in many
ways, and not least for the clear insight which the
writer had obtained into the maelstrom of French

politics. Boulanger was then an unknown name, and

Dreyfus was still a cadet at St. Cyr; but Acland's
forecast of the troubles ahead might almost have been

written in 1902 with the debates on the Registration
of the Religious Orders before him.

                                Camaret, off Brest, August 28, 1883.
   Since I saw you we have had quite an interesting time in
the Druid. I have become quite satisfied with her. My

   ^ There is a touching Httle passage in one of Acland's letters to

his wife : ' I am always miserable out of your sight unless I am
near the sea-- then I can endure it.'
464  HENRY ACLAND  [1883-

mate, a splendid fellow who was in the Pandora, was a winter
in the Gertrude, and prefers the Druid. She seems admir-

able in all points, is quite fast, and whether in a sea way or
still water does excellently. She has gone over nine almost

motionless, and slips over calm water fairly fast. But we

have had much enjoyment other than that of sailing. You
remember I was bent on going to see boats in the Bay of
Biscay. We went by way of the Channel Islands to Douar-
nenez, with a very fair amount of adventure --rough and
smooth. At Douarnenez I continued my Druid^s custom

of '5 o'clock tea,' when in harbour, and this brings us
many interesting visitors ; and with little expense we can

show friendly hospitality. Foreigners like to see an English

yacht, and so are easily induced to come without ceremony.

We have in this way made some quite notable friends, whose
goodness and conversation I can never forget. Singularly
enough, two were Parisian artists -- one, M. Jacquemare, a dis-
tinguished sculptor, and the other, M. Vernier, a well-known
painter. The latter was at Concarneau, the former at
Douarnenez. We have been three times to the last place :

the first to examine the fisheries, the second to be at a ' Beni
de la Mer,' the third to see a great Breton ' Pardon ' at
a village, St.-Anne de la Palude. The whole effect of the

visit to France has been very different from what I had
expected. I went to see fishing-boats, and to draw. My

accident' stopped the latter, and circumstances showed me

men as well as boats, and human character rather than

fisheries. I have had several long conversations with a
government schoolmaster -- one of the chief young physio-
logists of France -- an official of the Marine, and my artist
friends, on the state of France, and the effect of secular

education. Their ideas have been checked, and cross-

examined, and the whole future is melancholy in the extreme.
I am scarce able to give you any sketch of them without
a volume, and a summary may seem to savour too much of

my own thoughts. But this is the general impression which

I have. I will not say my impression, but what I gather as

   ^ He had had his hand squeezed in a block, which prevented
his using it for a time.
1892]            THE YACHT                            465

their sentiments ; and as I do not wish to give names, I put

the whole in a general statement.

There is a general concurrence in this, that there is a

bitter antagonism between Secularists and Religionists ; that

the former are in great part violent ; that they are mainly

political and generally seeking /'ozt'^r. That this power they
would and will use without scruple, and they learnt the way

in the first revolution of 1792-3. Indeed, one person of

authority told me practically as much, with a simple venomous

fury at the clergy. The Parisian organization through the

Minister of Public Instruction holds an extraordinary sway

in this matter. Books are written purposely to inoculate

certain ideas, and are transmitted to all the communal

schools through France as the books from which the teachers

are to teach : i.e. a master receives a certain prepared

History of France, and this he is to read to and expound

to the children. And in one secretly shown to me the

various phases of revolution and anarchy were described in

detail as the prevailing of righteousness over evil. And so

outre is one of these (by Paul Bert) that the Bureau has been
forced to suppress it. I had the book, but was obliged to

IIreturn         as the lender did not dare let be known he had
                 is
          it,
                   I'
                       I

                                    II

                                                     is
                                                          it

                                                                      '
                                                                                      a

                                                                                                                    '

                                                                                is
                                                                                            is ;
lent it. The offensive nature of some of the ideas can hardly

be described, as that the clergy had taught that women had

no minds and thus degraded 3'our mothers.'
       had no time or inclination to pursue all this by reading

but think there no doubt of the general fact. And now

for the inference, which really shrink from putting on paper.

But, as Herodotus, relate what was told by one of the

most interesting men with whom ever conversed, and who

really almost lived on board each time we visited Douarnenez.

The Bretons, he said, are the only people who represent or

retain the best side of the French character. (The speaker
  Parisian.) The whole of modern Hfe given up to general
a
             a;so-called philosophic scepticism by the educated and

serious and by the mass of society, wholly and at all cost,

to plaisir as the end and object of being. Education  to

impart           certain smattering of material knowledge and

sceptical ideas -- and thus the whole population becomes rest-
less, political, discontented -- and the north-west of France
                 Hh
466                              HENRY ACLAND            [1883-

resented this tendency and was counted ignorant. They

were therefore to be broken up. Thus my fisher friends,

steady and firm as rocks heretofore, are through the young

men, from the new schools, becoming infected. And when
this is accompHshed through the secular schools, ' C'est la fin
de France,* and he added, ' Do not think ill of a Frenchman

                                   will be good for the world.' Since '93 France

                                 hotbed of political vice -- and will be so more
who says   a it,
has been       it

                                 '

                                      is

                                                  It

                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                 a
and more. The prospect affreux.                          will in the end be

reign of 'gendarmes and successful adventurers. Un siecle
de fer -- voila.' This was not the result of chance conversa-

tion offhand, but the sentiment which pervaded long walks,

and hours spent on board illustrated in various ways.

   Though the state of his health did not compel himaaa
to put finally aside his paints and sketching materials,a
their use was now far more labour than of old. They
                                 a
had been constant resource since his Undergraduate
days, solace in trouble, relaxation in work and on   I
holiday. Those only who shared his tastes and pursuits

can do justice to phase which gives the key to so
much of his life's work, and am indebted once more
to the kindness of Mr. Lionel Muirhead for an appre-
ciation of the artistic tastes and accomplishments of.

his friend
a

            It
                              :
One of the chief notes of Henry Acland's character was

love of art, which seemed woven into the very texture of his

nature.                        sprang doubtless from his intense love of method

and order in everything leading on to that idea of beauty as

'being the best of all we know,' which ever was one of the

great underlying influences that moulded his daily thought

and life.

     Nowhere could this love of method, order, and beauty be

seen more clearly than in the house in Broad Street at Oxford

which was his beloved home for more than forty years. The

remarkable skill and ingenuity which he exercised through

long course of years in planning structural alterations, and
a
                                                  ;
in adapting his home to the convenience of living, can seldom

have been exceeded and the structural alterations, when
1892]  ART AND ARTISTS  467

made, seemed not only to have the merit of exact contrivance,
but also told of a certain delight in turning difficulties to
account that called to mind the cleverness of a mediaeval
craftsman. This pleasure in curious contrivance was one of
the sources of his delight in ship-building, and on board his
yacht it gave him keen satisfaction to think that every plank
of wood used in her construction was wrought for the special
place it occupied in the whole design, and would fit precisely
nowhere else. This fine perception of fitness and order was
the secret of the extraordinary success which he achieved in
the whole arrangement of his house at Oxford. His home,
indeed, became a reflex of himself: it was a storehouse of

treasures, artistic, curious; they varied from Millais's portrait
of Ruskin to a mummied cat, from a rough drawing of a boat
of the time of St. Paul scratched on one of the steps of the
quay at Utica to a small boat made from a piece of
Nordenskiold's vessel the Vega. Nearly all these things,

and they were legion, were given to him by friends, and came
from every part of the world ; and amongst them were many
things of value from their association with those who had

given them, such as a shepherd's staff from Palestine brought
by Dean Stanley. Yet however varied were the contents of

the house, or whatever additions were made, they never

appeared overcrowded, or otherwise than set equally for

beauty and convenience.
    Henry Acland's pleasure in all exercise of manual skill was

great, but drawing was that in which he most excelled. It

was his hobby and delight at all times, whether on his holi-

days or during his professional travels, and his sketch-books
are full of records of America, Norway, Switzerland, France,
the Mediterranean, Palestine, Egypt. It is probable that his
love for drawing was first inspired by the sketches of his
father, of which a large collection exists at Killerton, and by
those of his grandmother, who was also skilled with the pencil
in the formal and precise style of that day. Besides what he

may have learnt from his father, he had lessons at some time

during his youth from John Varley, that very able craftsman
and instructor. Of John Varley (who in his later days at all

events worked largely from memory) it is said that when he

wished to paint a sunset effect he would watch the sky from

                                              Hh2
468  HENRY ACLAND  [1883-

 the window in his dressing-gown and nightcap until the

particular phase arrived which he desired to record. Having
 at this point made rapid notes, he would close the shutters

 and retire to bed, so that next morning he might set to work
with his impression of over-night undisturbed by after

developments. It is likely that a teacher of this unconven-
tional kind would have characteristic ways of imparting know-
ledge to his pupils, and Acland certainly never forgot his
teaching. To the end of his life his favourite method of

recording what he saw was to draw in his subject upon tinted

or upon 'Varley' paper, using-- after the slightest pencil
jotting-- reed pens of many sizes and indelible brown ink.
After completing this drawing rapidly but with great care, he

would lay in all shadows with Cologne earth, very broadly,

taking the utmost pains to ensure that the shadows should

exactly fit their appointed spaces. He would then add colours

in broad washes, and would finally use body colour for points

of especial brilliance. It is surprising what effective drawings

he could in a short time produce by this simple workmanlike

process, which moreover had this merit, that at each stage the
drawing might be abandoned with a certain measure of com-
pleteness attained. The drawing with reed pens and indelible

brown ink was perhaps what he most enjoyed ; and the lines
would vary from great delicacy to others of great strength, so
that the effect when finished was something hke that of

a strong etching, and often the sketch was carried no further.
Many drawings, however, were carried to the second stage,

and his series of the Seven Churches of Asia is so given,

the drawing of Smyrna, in Cologne earth on blue-grey paper,
with the great cypress trees by the hills and sea, and the

crescent moon in the twilight sky, being particularly fine.

   The subjects, however, that really aroused Sir Henry's

enthusiasm were those connected with the sea and seafaring
folk, for whose skill, determination and manful endurance of

hardship and peril he had the warmest sympathy and
admiration. Brixham trawlers off his beloved Devonshire
coast, luggers in Mount's Bay, chasse-mardes off the Breton

coast, would always compel him to record in his sketch-books
what time and tide would allow. The fleet of sardine fishing-

boats setting forth for their toil or returning to the harbour
i?3^^-rr^'"

             ^i'^^  '
1892]  ART AND ARTISTS  469

of Douarnenez or Concarneau at sunset specially stirred
his blood ; the splendour of the sunset light upon the tanned

red and yellow sails, the sense that the long day's toil was

over, the wives and children waiting on the quays to
welcome home the bread-winners, the touch of religious

feeling aroused by the evening Angelus, all combined to give
him unspeakable pleasure. Many years previously he had
painted the fleet of fishing-boats entering the harbour of
North Sunderland at sunset, and had made of the subject

a deeply toned and powerful drawing. During his holidays

spent on board his yacht his sketch-book was ever in his
hand : often owing to the movement of winds and currents no

more than rapid short notes were made, to be carried further
in the cabin whilst the vision was still bright in his memory ;

but often when opportunity occurred he would complete his
sketch on the spot, as in his drawing of the harbour of

Polperro, details being little insisted on, but the composition
of lines and of light and shadow being carefully thought out.
Indeed, though in his house or on board his yacht no detail

whatever escaped his attention, in his artistic work he seemed

to withdraw his mind from details as much as possible, and
admirably practised that art of omission in rendering land-

scape which is such an essential source of enjoyment and

success.

   Bearing this in mind, it is remarkable that most of the
artists with whom he corresponded or with whose aims he felt

himself in sympathy, were amongst those to whom the name

Pre-Raphaelite had been applied. This was no doubt due
to his close friendship with John Ruskin, and to the great
interest he had felt in the work of the Pre-Raphaelite brother-
hood in the frescoes of the Union Library. He had even,

under the same influence, at one time made experiments in
painting in tempera composed with yolk of egg and vinegar ;
and we find that in 1857 Rossetti writes to him about the
pictures of Thomas Seddon, who had died in 1856 at the age
of thirty.

   Another correspondent was Samuel Palmer, in whose
company Acland had been with George Richmond at Rome,
and from whose artistic advice and teaching he had received
much advantage. The following letter shows how keenly
470  HENRY ACLAND  [1883-

he and Acland entered upon their relation of teacher and

pupil :

   ' I do not think that a month's lessons teach so much as
a week's "cram." I ought to watch your principal subject

till it is safe, and at other times of the day secure for you
in writing or otherwise a handbook of information which,
beside any new suggestions, might set all your present
artistic knowledge in order for future use, and be applicable

equally to all scenery and subjects. These six days being

wholly devoted to you, I do not think I could say less than

twelve guineas and expenses, including travelling expenses,
without sustaining loss by going away from engagements

due in London at this time. This would end the business
part of the affair ; after which I should like to spend another

week in a manner which would benefit myself -- viz. in

exploring the neighbourhood for hints or subjects; going

to Mr. Halliday's oaks, Watermouth Cove, &c. -- and I should
have the greatest pleasure in your society. We could go

out for light sketching, to see what was to be seen. But
Devonshire, lovely as it is, is so rainy that it would not be

safe to trust to anything but the most settled weather, and

just now is the only time I can manage.
   ' PS. I am delighted to hear about the sunset ; to do this

you should be on the cliffs at the right moment every evening.

I have explored Clovelly, and do not think you will find

it so good as Ilfracombe. The village too is unhealthy.
Ilfracombe is a centre about which I remember having seen

the best matter in the county, in strange nooks without

a name, but which I think I could find out. I have long

suspected that the rise of the rivers aloft on such places
as Exmoor must be peculiarly interesting, but they are out

of the question. Whether I come or not, I would advise

you above all to be methodical and arrange your time in
masses -- a week of severe study, then a rambling time without

any severity at all ; this is the way to compress months into
weeks, even into days. Pray get the ordnance map of the

district you go to.'

   At various dates Acland corresponded with G. F. Watts,
Roddam S. Stanhope, E. W. Cooke, Holman Hunt, Sir
Frederick Leighton, Charles Newton, A. Munro, T. Woolner,
1892]        ART AND ARTISTS       471

Benjamin Woodward, and George Richmond on artistic

subjects often connected with the University, and many of

these artists he held in great esteem and affection; George
Richmond indeed had done one of his finest and most graceful
drawings of Mrs. Acland at the time of her marriage, and

also made a striking drawing of Sir Henry himself.

Alexander Munro, the talented and graceful sculptor, was
often an inmate of Acland's house, and carved an extremely
beautiful profile of Mrs. Acland which is now in Christ

Church Cathedral, besides other pieces of sculpture at Broad

Street and statues in the Museum.

   Acland's interest in art was by no means confined to
painting, but was extended in full measure both to archi-
tecture and sculpture, as could hardly fail to be the case
with one who had seen both Greece and Rome, and had

his dwelling in Oxford. Many years previously he had

drawn the elevation and plans from which an English Chapel

at Athens had been erected, and in how great a degree the

'Ifancient Greek builders had moved him we know from his
own words :  week after week in my youth, with fresh

senses and a docile spirit, I have drunk in each golden glow

that is poured by a Mediterranean sun from over the blue

Aegean upon the Athenian Parthenon ; if day by day sitting
on Mars Hill I have watched each purple shadow as the

temple darkened in majesty against the evening sky ; if so,
it has been to teach me, as the alphabet of all Art, to love

all truth and to hate all falsehood, and to kiss the hand of

every Master who has brought down, under whatever circum-
stances, and in whatever age, one spark of true light from
the Beauty and the subtle Law which stamp the meanest
work of the Ever-living Ever-working Artist.'

   But to the end of his life Order, Beauty, Art, continued
ever-presiding spirits over that chamber of interior vision

wherein he seemed habitually to dwell, looking out medita-

tively and with grave questioning upon the moving pageant

of mankind ; a little apart always from all fretful politics and

passions of the multitude, just indeed so far as should serve
to keep untarnished the refinement of a nature that was yet
ever devoted and tender in all its relations with humanity.

             ^ See p. 104, supra.
                 CHAPTER XVI

 RETIREMENT FROM THE MEDICAL COUN-
     CIL--RESIGNATION OF THE PROFES-
     SORSHIP--MEDICAL MISSIONS-- CORRE-
     SPONDENCE WITH MR. GLADSTONE-
     LAST DAYS.

                                         1887-1901

   In the May of 1887 Acland retired from the General
Medical Council. His second term of office as President

had expired in 1884, but he was again re-elected to assist

in piloting the Medical Bill of 1886. This accomplished,

he felt that he might claim his release from a post whose
labours were beginning to press too heavily upon him.

With the resignation of the Presidency his connexion
with the Council ceased. He had been a member for

thirty years, and president for seventeen ; the details
of administration were becoming increasingly onerous,
and some of its functions as a disciplinary body could
not fail to be distressing to him. But next to the
Museum there was no part of his work which interested
him more or on which he looked back with greater
satisfaction.

   His colleagues testified their sense of his 'dignity,
courtesy, and impartiality' in an address signed by
each of the twenty-three members, and a bust of him
was presented to the Council Hall in Oxford Street,

where it stands to-day in company with the portraits

of his predecessors. Sir B. Brodie and J. H. Green,

which he himself had given to the Council some years
before. His immediate successor was Sir John Marshall.
Some years later the chair was filled by Sir William
RETIREMENT FROM MEDICAL COUNCIL 473

Turner, now Principal of Edinburgh University and
for so long its distinguished Professor of Anatomy.
During the later part of Acland's Presidency, and down
to the close of his life, Sir William was among his most

trusted and most intimate friends, and it was a source
of unfeigned pleasure to him to know that one who
saw eye to eye with him on so many of the questions
which affected the profession, and on the whole range of
medical education, should occupy the position to which

he attached so much importance.

   The retirement from the Medical Council, much as
he missed the work and the interests, gave him an
amount of leisure such as he had never known before,

and, so long as his health permitted, he was enabled to
make a more liberal use of the Vacations than at any
previous period of his hfe. We have seen that in
October, 1888, he had paid a flying visit to the United
States, and in January of the following year he went
with his daughter to Lucerne and Milan, and was
entertained by Lord Carnarvon in his villa at Rapallo.

In the summer he shared in the naval manoeuvres on

board his son's ship the Volage, and joined him again

in a winter cruise to the Canaries, spending happy days

at Vera Cruz and Orotava. It was a return to the old
life of fifty years ago in the Pembroke, and the contrast
between the old navy and the new was a source of

never-failing wonder and delight to him.

   In May, 1890, Her Majesty Queen Victoria created
him a Baronet. So gracious a recognition of his services
to Science at Oxford and to the Medical Profession at
large was cordially acclaimed. Amidst the showers of

congratulatory letters there was none perhaps to which

Sir Henry Acland attached a higher value than the
following note in which Alderman Robert Buckell
spoke on behalf of the townsmen in whose midst his

...working life had been spent.
         I was indeed very glad of the opportunity of ex-
pressing what I knew to be in the hearts of many of my
474  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

friends in Oxford, our heartfelt appreciation of all that you

had done for the city during the last fifty years, and our

exceeding pleasure that such lifelong service had received
the acknowledgement of our Queen in the honour vi^hich had
recently been conferred upon you. The quick and hearty
response in which the mention of it was received was but an

indication of the feeling of the whole community, and I trust

will convey to you the certain knowledge and satisfaction that

your labours have not been in vain all these years, and that
we as citizens are not ungrateful.

   In the summer of that year he attended the Inter-

national Medical Congress at Berlin, and though he took

more thari one trip to the Mediterranean as a guest on

the Volage and the Edgar, this was destined to be his
last expedition on the Continent. But he by no means
lost sight of his continental friends. In 1891 Victor
Cariis sent Dr. Menge to him in answer to a request
for a distinguished specialist to work at bacteriology in
the laboratories of the Museum, and, the International

Medical Congress meeting that year at Oxford, he was
able to entertain foreign doctors, known and unknown,

distinguished and undistinguished, to his heart's content.
There is no professional freemasonry so strong as that
of medicine, and Acland's name had long been a house-

hold wdrd in quarters where English names and English
customs are not ordinarily regarded with favour.

   Killerton and Holnicote and Broad Clyst, where his

brother Leopold was shortly to celebrate the fiftieth
year of his incumbency, were still open to him as
they had always been. The following letter from the
Rector of Broad Clyst, written in September, 1886, will
show the spirit in which the Aclands of that generation
encountered the infirmities of old age :

   Tom's energy is astonishing. He thinks his men-servants
are too hard-worked and want play. So he has started
cricket for them; and, taking Mary in her chair down the
drive, left her to join them ; was bowled to by a boy who put
i9oi] A SERIES OF VISITS 475

his head in much danger by bad bowling, and then he threw
off his coat and proceeded to bowl with such energy that he

fell flat on his stomach ! In the evening he has in all the

men and the maids to lecture them on harmony, to the
upsetting of the discipline of the house !

   It reads almost hke a scene out of Mr. Barrie's
charming fantasy, The Admirable Crichton. But Sir
Thomas had a dozen years of strenuous work before

him, and his book published in 1896, entitled Knowledge,
Duty, and Faith, would have been no mean achievement
for an Oxford Don with his spurs yet to win.

   His second son, Harry, was married and settled in
Malvern, and here Sir Henry used to come almost
every year for rest and change. Then there were
visits to Leytonstone, where the memory of Mr. and
Mrs. Cotton was still green, and where he assisted
with his brothers-in-law in the erection of a memorial

church to one who in his lifetime had 'spared neither
gold nor gear' in filling the darkest quarters of London

with houses dedicated to the worship of God. At
Liphook he enjoyed the hospitality of Lord Justice
Cotton. At Windsor and at Bovey Tracey he passed

many happy hours with Canon Courtenay, the beloved
friend of his early manhood.

   In 1892 he paid a long visit to Ireland to his friends
the Cooke Trenches, and stayed at Edinburgh with Sir
William Turner for the meeting of the British Associa-
tion. The spring of that year had found him busily
employed in preparing for the inaugural Boyle lecture
founded by the Oxford Junior Scientific Club. He
delivered it in May. In the spring of 1893, when at
Malta with the Edgar, he had a long and interesting
conversation with Admiral Tryon, who a few weeks
afterwards was to go down in the ill-fated Victoria --
a tragedy of which Captain Acland was one of the

spectators.

   In the summer of the same year he paid, in com-
pany with Miss Acland, a visit to the Lakes, staying
476  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

at Derwentwater with Dr. (now Sir) Douglas and
Mrs. Powell. Thence they proceeded to Brantwood,
and it was on this occasion that Miss Acland took her

striking and pathetic photograph of the two old men of

whom, after more than fifty years' friendship, it might
well be said that * they were lovely and pleasant in their

lives.' It was their last meeting ; and the fact that Ruskin

was able to enjoy his friend's society with much of the
keen and affectionate eagerness of old placed it among
the happiest memories of his declining years. As they
parted Ruskin charged his friend with a farewell
message : ' Say to my friends in the Oxford Museum
from me -- May God bless the reverent and earnest
study of Nature and of Man, to His glory, to the better
teaching of the future, to the benefit of our country and
to the good of all mankind.'

   In the autumn he broke his journey from Ireland,
where he had been once more with the Cooke Trenches,

to spend a night or two at Leeds with Mr. Pridgin

Teale, ever a staunch supporter both at Oxford and on

the Medical Council.

   The scheme which had brought the masters of the

various sciences under one and the same roof in the

Oxford Museum was not without its drawbacks. There

was an overlapping of departments, some personal
friction, and a certain amount of jealousy lest one
branch of learning should be favoured at the expense
of another. The distinguished head of a distinguished

college, who in past years had taken pleasure, as an

amateur, in keeping up a connexion with the Museum

and its Professors, wrote to Acland that he must resign
his position on the delegacy: 'They (the scientific
teachers) cannot agree among themselves ; there seems
to be no definite principle of action, no adjustment of

rival claims, and one incessant craving for change.'
From another Oxford man, himself in the forefront of

scientific teaching, came the admission in a letter to

Sir Henry that he had been wrong, and the latter 'on
RUSKIN AND ACLAND AT BRANTWOOD, 1893
I90I] 'OXFORD AND MODERN MEDICINE' 477

the whole right,' in the contest about the more active
promotion of medical studies by the University.

   These dissensions were sufficiently distasteful in
themselves to one of Acland's high-strung and gentle
disposition, but behind them he saw the spectre of that
specialization, that divorce of Science from * Arts ' which
he had always dreaded and deplored. It seemed to him
that Oxford was being ' asked to believe that general
literary education, and broad philosophical biology, such
as John Hunter revealed to England, was not the duty
of the University towards medicine; that she must turn
her new Physical Science Institute mainly into a purely
Professional School, and so deprive our future students
of medicine of an enlightened University training.'

   As a final protest against impending change and as
a record of the ideals in which he and his colleagues

in the fight for the Museum had been nurtured, he
made, in 1890, his last public deliverance in the shape
of a letter on Oxford and Modern Medicine, to his
valued friend Dr. James Andrew, Honorary Fellow of
Wadham, who was then Senior Physician to St. Bar-
tholomew's Hospital and an Examiner in Medicine at

Oxford. It was privately printed, and was obtainable by
any of Sir Henry's friends, but he decided not to pub-

lish it on the ground that it was * at once too detailed
and too brief; too personal and too general'

   I can only regret that the letter was not more widely
circulated. It is full of the most interesting retrospect,

and has supplied material for these pages which was

obtainable nowhere else. It is the nearest approach
to autobiography which Sir Henry ever permitted

himself.

  'I have often been asked,' he said \ 'to write an account

of the circumstances under which the Museum was built, the
care of public health in Oxford developed, including the
abolition of the local Acts, the steps gone through for

                       ^ Oxford and Modern Medicine^ page 39.
478  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

obtaining our system of drainage, our water-supply, the
reconstruction of the County Hospital and the disappearance
of polypharmacy in the district. It would no doubt be a

singular story. But it would be stirring mud when we are

seeking the purer streams.'

   I hope I may not, in the course of this memoir, have

incurred such reproach or have used any words or

passed any judgement from which its subject would have
shrunk. Nothing is more striking in the whole course of
the letter to Dr. Andrew than the tolerant and generous
tone in which Acland speaks of all those, the living
and the dead, who in their various stations and degrees
had played a part in the development of Oxford, however
acutely he may have differed from some of them.

   Of this spirit he was shortly to give another proof. In
September, 1893, the buildings of a new anatomical school

were opened with pomp and ceremony at the Museum.

For reasons into which it is unnecessary to enter, the
affair had been productive of much annoyance to him,

and he had been unable to greet it with any satisfaction.
But when once the school was an accomplished fact he
loyally accepted it and bade the visitors welcome to a tea-
party in the Radcliffe Library ; and then, relapsing into
his old enthusiasm for anything that might forward the

cause he loved, he wrote to Sir William Turner :

   Thomson has got a very nice little place. I have given him
the Fighting Gladiator (a splendid cast), Antinous, and Venus
of Milo types of living human form -- the first in action, the
others quiet, erect -- and Goodsir's cast of the dead body.
And Charlie Robertson has made for him a considerable
number of beautiful dissections ; so you will see it is Goodsir

over again and Edinburgh.

   But though Sir Henry Acland never allowed differ-
ences of opinion or policy to affect his relations with his

colleagues at the Museum, he was absolutely unbending
when he conceived that the status and dignity of the
medical profession was in danger of infringement. In
I90I] THE OXFORD MEDICAL SOCIETY 479

1892 he had seen with much pleasure the foundation,
or rather the re-estabhshment, of a Medical Society in
Oxford, and had gladly accepted the office of President.

At the first meeting, in November, held in the University
Museum, he occupied the chair, while Sir James Paget
delivered the inaugural address. Much to his astonish-

ment he found that smoking was included in the pro-

ceedings, and he further learnt that a resolution per-
mitting the practice had been passed by the Founders
of the Club. Such action on the part of the Committee

without reference to their President was as unusual as

the subsequent invitation to him * to place his views on
the matter ' before a meeting of the Society. But
questions of etiquette counted for little with him com-
pared with the mischief which in his judgement must
follow the toleration of these free-and-easy habits. He
felt that what was permissible in private rooms amid
informal discussion was worse than out of place at meet-
ings in the University Museum, where bearers of the
most eminent names in British medicine were invited to

set the tone of earnest scientific work. He may have
been old-fashioned, but he had the keenest sense of
what was due to the dignity of the Art to which he had
dedicated his life, and as the Society declined to alter
their arrangements, he felt he had no alternative but to
resign both the Presidency and membership. * Believe
me,' he wrote to the Secretary, * this episode in my

later years has cost no one, and could not, as much as

it has me.'

    Another matter which gave him much anxiety and
entailed much correspondence and many journeys back-
wards and forwards arose out of differences of policy
which had declared themselves among those interested
in the organization of nursing the sick. It would be
 beyond the scope of this memoir to enter into details
 of the 'Registration' controversy. Nursing has always
 been a subject of supreme interest to the members of
 our Royal House, and more than one of the daughters
48o  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

of Queen Victoria has possessed practical qualifications
for taking the lead and expressing strong opinions in
the successive movements by which nursing has at-
tained its present position. Of Acland's services in this
cause, dating from his earliest cholera experiences, I
have already spoken, and in the disputes which threat-
ened to curtail the usefulness and damage the prospects
of a beneficent profession and of an invaluable band of

workers, his advice and judgement were sought for in
the highest quarters.

    While, however, the troubles which gathered round
the British Nursing Association formed a disagreeable
reminder of the difficulties which sometimes beset the

best intentions, the improvement in the nursing of the
poor which has set in during the last twenty years
caused him unmitigated gratification. In 1894 he was
asked to present the certificates to the nurses at Mile
End, a neighbourhood so familiar to him in the far-off

days, when he used to ride up through an almost empty
Whitechapel from Leytonstone to the Bank. He told
his audience something of the arrangements for nursing
the poor which had subsisted long after the beginning
of his professional career, and how at Oxford he could
remember when the foul cells in the workhouse infirmary

were more offensive than a decent dog-kennel. He
paid his tribute to the ladies who, from Miss Florence
Nightingale down to Miss Louisa Twining, had worked

and agitated until the wretched dens which sheltered

the aged and the sick had been swept away from the

workhouses throughout the land.

   He himself had lent support and aid in every upward
step. His constant association with Miss Nightingale

had filled him with confidence in her judgement, and
with admiration for her life devoted to the good of
others. And they both possessed the same combina-
tion of enthusiasm for the relief of suffering with know-

ledge of practical detail. Not many months before his

death she paid him a very beautiful compliment :
I90I] DEATH OF JOWETT                                                     481

   Do you know (she wrote), I hear from and of you almost
every day? In this way: I can remember when Pyaemia

was almost as common a thing in Hospitals as any case
coming from without -- I mean Pyaemia generated in Hospital.

Now we shout so loud when there is a case that they can
hear us all over London. This is an amazing change. And

we owe it principally to you and what you have taught us.

   One by one, the tale of his Oxford contemporaries
was minishing. In October, 1893, Jowett died at the
Hampshire home of Mr. Justice Wright. Acland had
attended him through his dangerous illness in 1891.
And in thanking him for a kindness which had shown

itself in countless little ways outside the scope of pro-
fessional duty, * The Master ' bade him * be glad that

there are thousands who have the same feeling towards

you, both poor and rich.' By Jowett's sick-bed the two
men had come to a fuller knowledge of each other.

They had always been friends, and Acland had pre-

served among his letters the congratulations which

Jowett had offered him on his engagement nearly half
a century before. But the latter had scant sympathy
with Acland's ideals. In sending him a copy of his

translation of the Politics he had expressed a wish that

he could 'persuade' him 'that many of us, although

we differ from you, do not differ from you as you sup-

pose, and that we are far from under-rating the great

service which you have rendered to physical science in

Oxford and in England.' But Jowett could hardly re-
strain a chuckle when the Oxford science teachers dis-
agreed in Convocation ^ And I cannot help fancying
that he is included in the allusion made in Oxford and
Modem Medicine to 'some of our charioteers who,'

having given no help during the old museum conflicts,

'at the eleventh hour seize the reins.'

During these last two or three years they were drawn

together, and Acland has put on record how much he

had learnt from his patient ^ :

                                 "^Jowetfs Life, vol. p. 217.
^ JowetVs Letters, p. 217.  I
                              i

                                                                     ii,
482  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

   I then first felt that I knew the man. We seldom spoke,

and in the many weeks never on anything that could be

controversial. I would sit by him feeling that I sat by the

side of a lover of God and a lover of man, whose life was not
of this world, teeming as it was with its interests of every
kind, and sympathetic with all good, wherever good could be
found or made, and with a sense of humour which sparkled

through in silence.

   Jowett's favourite picture of the Madonna, which was
given Acland by the executors after the former's death,
was hung over his bed, side by side with his cherished
relic of Dr. Pusey.

   In 1894 Liddell resigned the Deanery of Christ
Church, and left Oxford for a dignified retirement at
Ascot. To Acland it was like the withdrawal of a prop.
During all his struggles he had had ' his Dean ' by his
side to counsel, to chide, to encourage. To the end the
old relation of tutor and pupil remained unbroken. ' I
don't know what father will do when you are gone,'
said Miss Acland; 'there will be no one to scold him.'

* I shall find plenty of occasion for doing that by letter,'

replied the Dean grimly; and he was as good as his
word. But the scolding takes up little room in the
delightful and polished correspondence in which Liddell
chatted to his absent friend of men and books and the

topics of the day. Extracts from them have been pub-
lished in Canon Thompson's Life of the Dean ; and
until the latter's death, Acland's visits to Ascot were a

regular feature in his yearly programme.
   But while the strands of the cord were severing one

by one, Acland found himself drawn into closer con-
nexion with Mr. Gladstone. I have quoted on another

page his appeal to the veteran statesman to do some-
thing towards mitigating the asperities of party politics.

Some years earlier he had relied sufficiently upon
their old friendship to press upon him, on the eve of the
formation of his 1880 Cabinet, the necessity of appoint-
ing a really first-class man to the Presidency of the
I90I]  MR. GLADSTONE                                    483

Local Government Board. Gladstone had perhaps in-
vited the confidence by asking, in 1877, for Acland's
opinion on the petition of certain resident graduates
for the removal of the remaining restrictions on Clerical
Fellowship, and by some rather delicate inquiries as to
one of the signataries. He repaid it by employing him,
on Stanley's death, to sound Liddell as to whether he
would entertain the offer of the Deanery of West-

minster.

   The comparative leisure which followed Gladstone's

retirement from office in 1885 was seized upon by the
ex-Premier for a controversy with Professor Huxley,
and one day in December Acland received the follow-
ing letter from his eldest brother, then a guest at

Hawarden :

   I am having a very interesting visit : no one here but
Lord Wolverton. How little people understand W. E. G.,
or his idea about party or about the Church, or his sense
of responsibility. . . . He is going to write again on
Genesis. He says he has a little to complain of Professor

Owen, to whom (for caution) he sent a proof. Owen wrote
to him a long letter about the antiquity of man, &c., but never
pointed out the errors as to the order of created things --
which G. admits that Huxley has spotted (a small point).

I advised him to send his next proof to you : I said you were

a careful and kind critic, and have access to knowledge.

By the same post came a letter from Mr. Gladstone

himself, and for the future Acland was constantly

appealed to both for information and criticism, which

he never failed to tender. He was at once fascinated

and bewildered by the versatility of the septuagenarian
who, in the midst of a most momentous crisis-- these

were the weeks when the Home Rule plunge was

decided upon-- could turn aside to vindicate the faith

which was all in all to them both. 'Your deep and
intense call to us,' he wrote, ' to cling to the teachings of
                                                        will
the spiritual life and of those who have lived
       I
         i

              2
                                                   it,
484  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

move men's hearts.' But a note of warning runs

through his letters reveahng the consciousness that
Mr. Gladstone was in deep waters, and that his great
intellectual gifts were not of the class to tell him how
deep the waters were. And this appears even more
clearly when, a few years later, Mr. Gladstone was pre-
paring his papers on the Impregnable Rock of Holy
Scripture. On March 17, 1890, he wrote from Oxford :

My dear Mr. Gladstone,

      I have twice read the very interesting proof which you

have most kindly sent to me. With the first five columns

I quite agree. The whole tenor seems to be just and con-
vincing. Afterwards I am equally charmed by the passage

in which you draw the distinction of the three Interpreters --
the Hebraist, the Scientist, and the Humanist. But I am

not so sure that I like your plunging into all the details that
follow. This may depend on the somewhat feeble way in
which I can alone touch these great themes.

   I know very little, and further, I think that many that
suppose they know all are in no better case. I have talked

over your question with regard 'to the two spherical bodies
of the same high temperature and the same materials, one
small, the other large, say as i-iooo, which will cool first,'
with Prof. Clifton, a most accurate physicist. There is of
course no question, either on the small scale or in the case
to which you refer --the Earth and the Sun emerging from

the condition of 'the Nebula,' or the universal and infinite
Nebula. I wish you could have heard the tender, modest
way in which he endeavoured to put us into the condition of
observers of the group, and could have noticed how very
little certain he was of very many things, and of the several
stages that would have to be gone through, of all of which

we can have, as they were under the old conditions, very

little real knowledge. . . .

   Keep out of the details. I have long ago said that one

thing is certain in ' Science,' that the Science of to-day will

not be the Science of to-morrow. I have no temptation

therefore to make things square with its details. The subject
is endless ; don't fight over hyphens ! (You know Keble
I90I]  MR. GLADSTONE    485

joined the Anglo-Catholic Library on the condition that
Moberly acted Anglo and himself Catholic, and both should

contend for the hyphen.) Be broadly sure the Light and
Sun came ; the Earth cooled, the vegetables began to come,
and grew ; the animals began, and evolved ; and in the end
the blessed boon of Faith and Prayer and Reason came to
the latest product of the infinite, amazing group.

   I write hurriedly at midnight, in the midst of very pressing

duty of to-morrow and Wednesday, having to speak at Banbury
on District Nurses -- in my small sphere a stormy topic.

    Prestwich, the dear, wise soul ! is in London.

                           I am, my dear Mr. Gladstone,

                                            Always yours gratefully,
                                                  Henry W. Acland.

   And, a day or two after, feeling, as his manner was,
that he had not done sufficient justice to his subject, he
returned to the charge :

My dear Mr, Gladstone,  Oxford, March 20, 1890. 1

      I sit down to write to you with greater diffidence than
before. I feel that to completely pass judgement on your
paper would require power which I do not possess, and
precise knowledge which I should have partly to acquire,

partly to refresh.
   Now, why this preface? Last night, on my return from my

address on Nursing, the first thing I did was to reconsider
both your letters. I was well prepared in one way. I have
just had to review the condition of the Poor from the time of
the passing of the Poor Laws in 1834 : and the wholly new
conditions of policy in regard to public health enactments in

this half-century : what had been done in England, i.e. in the

English-speaking race in the United States, the Colonies,
India, the world, in this particular -- of making corpus sanum

to help on mens sana. Then, as I came back by train, I

asked myself, ' And how about other departments of Biology
and Physics, and then Theology?' And so primed I got

a volume of Professor Pritchard's in which I knew was
486              HENRY ACLAND                                  [1887-

a paper I had never read on your present topic. Pritchard
is a very clever, shrewd, devout-minded man-- friend of the
Herschels, of half the modern physicists, and a great mathe-
matical tutor for many years. Will you read this paper, the

last in the volume? He, you will see, gives up the whole

case, as a scientific one. He considers the proem or poem

irreconcilable with modern science (I wish the word could

be abolished).

   I read and re-read the account of the third and fourth days,

trying to see how far one might accept light as one thing, and

the making the sun a subsequent thing. But I could not, on
any scientific conception I could form, do this. Be sure

Pritchard, who has all the data at his fingers' ends, would do
so if he could. So he invents an explanation, which in some

form would occur to any poet, but would not satisfy any

scientist, as a scientific explanation of the known facts.
   You will feel how dangerous it is for either scientists or

theologians precisely to lay down their real position while

the geologist and biologist collect their data and draw their

conclusions. The Hebraists like Canon Driver must draw

theirs. The scientists are not agreed, nor are the theologians.

I remember hearing you say, at the charming house at

Clieveden many years ago, that much trouble had arisen since

the revolution by an over-literal interpretation, or attempt
at of the Scriptures. No one supposes that the present
state of interpretation or of Natural Science final.
I

   it,
                                           is

                                                                       is

                                                                I
      fear that all this will be useless to you, and only seem to
be as milk or milk and water, not strong meat. But would

say to any friend, Don't argue with Huxley or people of that

kind at all. You may be quite sure they have much to learn.

The continent of America  to give lessons of many kinds,

geological as well as biological, ethnographical and social.

With your deep religious feelings and all your theological

learning as well, you have in the Bible boundless stores far

more important to man than any of these questions of material

discoveries.

But am ashamed to write so.  return your kind and
     it I
                 I
                                              I

                                              I
                                                            I
judicious note.  shall read again to-night your proof and

return to-morrow. But you will see do not like to touch

the details, they are dangerous and inconclusive.              wish you
igoi]             MR. GLADSTONE                                                                                     487

would go and see       Professor Prestwich --gentlest, wisest,
calmest of men.                 Always yours gratefully,
                                          Henry W. Acland^

   The soundness of Acland's advice was echoed by
Professor Prestwich :

You are quite right about Mr. Gladstone's writings :

the first pages are grandly and beautifully written; but

when he comes to deal with scientific facts one misses the

scientific method. It
a
          a
                                          is,

                                                                              ;
                                                                                                        !

                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                           it
                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                 a
                       as you say, delightful to see man

like Gladstone give his mind and attention to these great,

though to him foreign questions delightful also to see the

novel and fine way in which he treats them but                       not our

way. How rarely the two are united

   In 1891, almost on the eve of his last electoral
campaign, Mr. Gladstone threw the world of Oxford
into flutter by coming into residence at All Souls for

week. The full dramatic efifect of this relapse into

monasticism was marred by Mrs. Gladstone, who,

merely telegraphing to Miss Acland that she was

coming, flung herself into the ever-hospitable home in

Broad Street. During that 'amazing visit' Mr. Glad-

stone was in and out of the house, as the spirit moved

him and Acland was glad to avail himself of his privi-
^*

   It ;
         is

          it a

              It

                    is

                                                 a
                                                                  a
lege as quondam to join the party which sat nightly

at Mr. Gladstone's feet at All Souls. The following

summer saw the latter established for the last time in

Downing Street. Amongst his many perplexities was

the question of the Laureateship, left unfilled by Lord

Salisbury.  no longer secret that in his endeavour

to keep on the high moral plane where Wordsworth

and Tennyson placed it,' his thoughts strayed to Ruskin,

and Acland was applied to by him as to whether

               characteristic of Acland                            that he was not even then
satisfied, but the next day penned                                    third letter explanatory of
the two that had gone before.
488  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

Ruskin's health would permit of the offer being made,
but Acland could give him no encouragement, and the

project fell stillborn.
   In 1894 the infirmities of age, and notably his deafness,

were increasing, and it was becoming clear to himself

and to those about him that the time had come when he

must resign the Regius Professorship ^ His intention,
however, was not made public until the end of the year,

and before that date he was able to gratify an old-

standing ambition with regard to the Museum. Among
the niches for the statues in the area a place had been
left, between John Hunter and Harvey, for Thomas
Sydenham, 'the representative Medical Practitioner,'

who had held an All Souls Fellowship during the

troublous days of the Commonwealth and the Restora-
tion. It had long been Acland's hope to see the void
supplied by the members of Sydenham's old college,
and his eldest brother and the Warden ^ agreed to unite
with him in commissioning Mr. Hope Pinker to execute
a figure worthy to stand beside the delicate statuary of
Alexander Munro. The British Association was to

meet in the August of that j^ear in Oxford, for the
fourth time, under the Presidency of the Chancellor of

the University, himself an old All Souls man, and

Acland wrote to ask him to unveil the statue. On a

former occasion, Lord Salisbury had, from his retreat at

Hatfield, protested with mock seriousness that * politi-

cians ought not to be asked to preach charity sermons,'
but he gave a willing assent ' to uncover Sydenham and
listen to your exposition.' And on the 9th of August,
the day after his Presidential address, the ceremony
took place in the court of the Museum.

    It was short and simple, and after the Regius Pro-

 fessor had formally presented the statue in a speech

which was practically his valedictory address, the

   ^ He had resigned the Clinical Chair in 1880, from which date it

was altered into two clinical lectureships, of medicine and surgery.
  ^ Sir William Anson, now M.P. for the University.
I90I] RESIGNATION OF PROFESSORSHIP 489

Marquess accepted it in the name of the University.
In a few stately sentences he congratulated the assembly
on the completion of the figures of the ancestors of
Medical Science at a time ' when we are able to see

how great has been the growth and the cultivation and
revival of the study of nature of which this splendid
Museum has been the outcome. Perhaps,' he added,
'at an earlier time we should not have appreciated how
much has been done in this respect, and perhaps we
should not have felt as we feel now how thoroughly
appropriate it is that the great masters and heroes of
medical science should be conspicuous ornaments of

this Museum. For this Museum marks the growth
of the new study.* And then Lord Salisbury turned to
his old physician, and in tones that spoke of long years
of affectionate intimacy, addressed him personally : ' and

it has arisen chiefly by the efforts and under the
authority of yourself, the great representative of Medical
Science at this University; and in honouring Sydenham
as we do to-day, we are honouring his great successor
to whom more than any other man the renewal of the
study of nature in this University is due, and to whose

efforts and to whose memory this splendid building and
the more splendid incorporeal instruction for which it

is built will be a lasting and brilhant testimony \'

   In the closing days of 1894 Acland resigned formall^'^
into the hands of Lord Rosebery the office which he
had received from Lord Palmerston in 1857. The
Prime Minister, in forwarding the official reply, enclosed
in his own hand a line of private regret : ' There

   ^ At the conclusion of the meeting, Lord Salisbury requested
that he might be allowed to join with the three donors of the
statue ; and writing to Acland a few months later, he said :
' I wish I had told the audience at the Museum last August that,
when I was elected to All Souls in 1853, the first thing you said to
me on congratulating me was a request that I would join in urging
on All Souls the duty of erecting a statue to Sydenham. In
presence of the completed Statue it would have been a fitting
tribute to your tenacity of purpose.'
490  HENRY ACLAND                   [1887-

comes a time to all when we must resign our offices

and ourselves; but the announcement of your intention
comes with a pang, and, I am sure, will be received in

Oxford with dismay.'

But Acland was not the man to forget that as Regius

Professor his position was derived from the Crown, and

he wrote to advise Queen Victoria of his pending
resignation, ' from failing health, of the post to which
Your Majesty graciously appointed me thirty-six years

ago.' He strove to express something of the debt

which he had owed to the never-failing kindness shown

by the Queen, the Prince Consort, and their children :

he alluded to the 'invaluable countenance and help

given by Your Majesty ' through the Royal gift of the

five statues ; and he referred to the teaching and

example of the Prince Consort and the advice which the

Prince had given him long ago about the Oxford

Museum. 'The only return I have made has been --

with a deep sense of gratitude to try to do my duty at

a period when the strongest might fail.'

   'God bless you, my dear Acland,' wrote Lord

Salisbury, 'you have done a great work in the Chair

you are now quitting. Few have done so much to

...raise the intellectual tone of the University for the best
purposes in the best direction      I am very glad to

hear that Sanderson succeeds you.'

Indeed, the personality of his successor had been not

the least of Acland's anxieties during the last years of
his professorship. With his strong views as to the

position which the occupant of the chair should hold

both in Oxford and the greater world outside it would

have been more than a mortification to him if the

choice had fallen unworthily. In Sir John Burdon-
Sanderson he recognized the union of personal dis-

tinction with the highest scientific reputation, which

augured well for the continuance of the traditions

which he had striven to found.

In recognition of Sir Henry Acland's long services
I90I] MEDICAL MISSIONS  491

to the University the sum of ^^5,000 was raised by
pubhc subscription. His bust in marble was placed in
the central area of the Museum, and the residue of
the fund was devoted to the endowment of the Sarah

Acland Nursing Home.

   I shall pass briefly over the last years, a pathetic

picture of growing weakness, of patience under suffer-
ing, of indomitable resolution to work on to the last.

* Better to wear out than rust out,' had been Acland's

advice to one of his nieces, whom over-anxious friends

sought to restrain in her round of daily activities. And
what he preached he practised. The energies of his

later days, until he was at last compelled to give in,

were concentrated on Medical Missions. Some years

previously he had spoken at a crowded meeting on
behalf of Lady Dufferin's Fund for the medical aid
of the women of India, and now he turned to a wider

field.

   ' Our Sierra Leone friend will visit us about the
beginning of October. In your inherited love for black
men I hope you will be at Oxford to meet him.' So
Liddell had written long ago, and the allusion to his

father's zeal for negro emancipation, and his friendship
with Wilberforce and Clarkson opens up a side of

Acland's character on which I have not hitherto touched.
From earliest years, in his own home and in that of the

Cottons, he had always been in close sympathy with
the missionary world. He had known Bishop Selwyn
well, and Dr. Livingstone had been a guest at his house.

The Universities Mission to Central Africa had found
in him a strong supporter, and of late years the Oxford
Delhi Mission and the Indian branches of the Cowley

Fathers had affected him in a very remarkable degree.

Anything to do with India had always interested him, and
latterly one of his favourite drives was to Sir William
Hunter's house at Oaken Holt to talk over his various

projects with that most accomphshed of Anglo-Indians.
492  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

  The munificent offer of Mr. J. N. Tata, an eminent

merchant of Bombay, for the endowment of an insti-
tute in India for scientific research had filled his
mind with the thoughts of what Oxford might do in

the mission field in directions outside the beaten track.

The ravages of the plague and the researches of
Mr. Haffkine had emphasized the lack of touch between
European and Oriental ways of regarding matters of
health. In bringing to England and to Oxford young

medical men from India, and in aiding the establishment
in India itself of such an institute of modern preventive
and therapeutic medicine as Mr. Tata had outlined, he
saw a prospect of breaking down Native prejudice
against Western science and of diffusing sounder ideas
of hygiene and sanitation, not only in British territory,
but among the more enlightened of the Native Princes.
Underlying the anticipated progress was the hope of
thus indirectly sapping the barriers which seemed to

present insurmountable obstacles to the progress of

Christianity.

   With characteristic thoroughness he devoted himself

to getting up his subject, to correspondence with all
sorts and conditions of men who could give him

information, and to writing countless letters to people
of standing who might be interested in the cause.
Taking up at random the bundles which contain the
answers he received, I find the names of Lord Curzon
of Kedleston, Lord George Hamilton, Archbishop
Temple, Sir William Markby, Lord Reay, Sir William
Hunter, Sir WiUiam Church, Sir M. Bhownaggree, M.P.,
Sir Charles Lyall, Mr. Basil Thomson, Sir George
 Birdwood, and Lady Dufferin. He even addressed a
private letter to the Editor of the Times^ appealing to

him as a former fellow of All Souls. He could scarcely

 have displayed greater vigour in the old Museum

 days half a century back.
    The opportunity for utilizing in a tangible form the

 anxious thoughts and inquiries that had occupied him
I90I] MEDICAL MISSIONS                       493

since his retirement came in 1899, when Sir Grainger
Stewart suggested to him the possibility of a certain

number of Oxford Medical Students connecting them-
selves with the Medical Missionary Society of Edin-
burgh. With this text he delivered himself on the whole
subject in an address before the Oxford Junior Scientific
Club, an address which was subsequently reprinted to-

gether with a good deal of additional matter accumulated
by the author. In all Sir Henry Acland's arduous life

there are few more striking episodes than this advocacy
in his eighty-fourth year of a cause on behalf of which
few voices had as yet been raised on British soil.

   It was his last public effort ; and the previous summer

had witnessed his last public appearance as a representa-

tive of the University, when he was invited to form

one of the Deputation which waited on the Queen at
Windsor to present a congratulatory address on the
occasion of the Diamond Jubilee, He still retained the
 Radcliife Librarianship, and found plenty of occupation

 there until the labour necessitated by the arrangements

for its removal to the new buildings proved too severe
 a tax on his failing strength. Of the spirit and the

 thoroughness with which he discharged his duties the

 following correspondence affords an example.

My dear Mr. Gladstone,  Oxford, November 3, '96.

Do not be angry with me. No one can help me as you

can, in what follows. I will write shortly.
The large work by Mr,   which I send, having been
favourably noticed in one or two reviews, I had on approval
for the Radcliffe Library, which owes you so much. From

the preface I gathered it was intended to be a fair history of

a great subject affecting human thought, always, everywhere.

So I cut the pages, to see generally if it was really a
History of this past philosophic controversy. But I hesitate

to put it in the Library, where all the young men may read
it. For the Professor of Anthropology and older men it

seems to me a record of progress and fact, which they
494              HENRY ACLAND                  [1887-

ought to have for reference. But for the young the practical

effect would probably be to prejudice them against all

Religions and Faith, and make them over-value Physical

Science. Yet whatever explanations may be offered and

accepted, there is in the picture truth even down to our

own times, and I should do mischief by even seeming to

suppress fact.

   You have thought so much about this in your own great

way, with so much power, and for so long, that I shall be
very grateful for your advice. Of course I now must keep

the book anyway, for myself.

Shall I put it in the Library, perhaps apart for the

Professors ?

  I am sure you can find an amanuensis to send me your

advice.          I am, my dear Mr. Gladstone,

                              Your grateful and affectionate
                                       Henry W. Acland.

My dear Acland,               Hawarden, November i6, '96.

     I have so often had experience of your liberality that

I am in no way surprised at your offer for the shelves of
St. Deiniol, nor have I any scruple in accepting it with thanks '.

  I have made a little further progress with the book. I do

not think the author's intentions bad, but he does not inspire

me with a high idea of his solidity or wisdom. I ought to
mention that I find he has described me as the most zealous

defender of orthodoxy but as deficient in knowledge, so

that I am almost disqualified from entering the lists against

him. He is extremely defective in the important business of
references. He quotes (without any doubt) Venice as an
example of progress from a most rude and miserable con-
dition of the first founders of the great historical development.

At one time I gave a little attention to this curious subject.
There I found great reason to believe that the marine

submersions of Venice were produced on the northern

corner of the Adriatic, to make pleasant summer residences

   ^ Acland appears in a letter which is not preserved to have offered
a duplicate copy of the book for Mr. Gladstone's own library.
I90I]             MR. GLADSTONE                  495

for the rich men of the towns, and then that by degrees there

was a movement outwards to get deeper water.

   I have not found much that is original or striking, but it is

one of the works that seem to have the tide in their favour,

and that ought to be found in any Hbrary which goes back

to the great question of origines.

  We have lately returned from Penmaenmawr, and I can

give an excellent account of my wife. Let me recommend

the Blachford Letters; on the other hand the padding in

Selborne's is something fearful, it will get down to 2s.

a volume.                     Yours truly,

                                    W. E. Gladstone.

   This was almost the end of his correspondence with
Mr. Gladstone. During the previous year the veteran

statesman, now finally removed from party strife, had
been absorbed in the preparation of his Studies on

Butler. The genesis of them perhaps is to be found
in a letter written by him to Acland early in March,

1895-

My dear Acland,                             Cap Martin.

      You have known Oxford intimately through a long and
honoured life. There are three questions which I am about

to put, once more presuming on your often experienced

kindness.

1. Whom would you point out among living and accessible

Oxford men as the man or men most conversant (a) with the

works of Butler,        with their relation to the philosophies
                  {b)
which were in possession of the field when he wrote his
                          a
Analogy
:
2. Paley, after considering the pain and suffering of the
        ?
animal creation, gives confident judgement that  small
                                                 it
relatively to the amount of enjoyment. Tennyson, on theis

                                                                   ?
other hand, says that Nature is     red with ravin, tooth, and
                                is
claw and Romanes in his earlier work seems to adopt and

expand this doctrine of Tennyson. What do the naturalists

proper say upon   it    Who the best authority to consult
                     ?
496                  HENRY ACLAND                                                      [1887-   p

What is your opinion ? I should like to have known that

of Owen.

  3. I desire also to know whether this prevailed in the pre-
human world ? I do not call the mere devouring or absorbing

of one creature by another ravin, for this may be no more

than a very simple form of death: but I refer to severe or
prolonged pain. On this I might perhaps ask Mr. Prestwich,
with whom I have had a little correspondence, but I do not

know whether when impertinently troubled he would be

able to endorse nor have his address at hand.
         is           I

               I it,
   These troublesome questions mean more than they contain.

The truth that have long meditated                                        a  new edition of

Butler, intended (i) to facilitate and extend, or perhapsIa

   might say little to raise the study, and (2) to illustrate the
principles, not by presuming to write essays of my own with (sk)
the great Bishop, but in a separate, appended, and also drier

volume.is            only within the last few days that have found
                                                                             I if 1 I
           a                                                                       It

           It

                 is
there    recent edition of Butler published by the late Bishop

Fitzgerald, man of great ability.                                have sent to Quaritch,
         a                       I
                                          1
the most effective man so far as know, for it.                                         may put

me off this present quest altogether, though                                 have already
spent a good deal of labour.

     cannot press you for very early answer, you are good
I                     a
                                          a
enough to answer at all. In about fortnight expect to be

back at Hawarden for good. We are all thriving, thank                                  :
God, on the Riviera climate (not yet fully clear of winter)
Cannes did me great good, and dismissed the last remnant of

an influenza which had kept its hold on me for eleven months.

   hope you may be able to send good account of your own
I

                                                              a

and also of your brother's health.

                      Believe me, most sincerely yours,

                                                                 W. E. Gladstone.

   During the whole incubation of the work the two
friends were in constant communication, and Aciand

was the means of submitting not few points, where
Mr. Gladstone felt in doubt, to the judgement of those
Oxford men who were best qualified to resolve them.

 Death closeth all,' and the Ascension Day of 1898
*

                                                                       a
igoi]  LAST DAYS  497

marked the termination of one of the most deeply
prized of Acland's friendships.

   His old companions were faUing fast. In 1894
Canon Courtenay had passed away. In January, 1898,
Dean Liddell died, and Ruskin's end came on January 20,
1900. In Acland's own family circle the gaps were
becoming more frequent. His sister, Mrs. Mills, had

died in 1895 ; she was followed in 1899 by his brother

Leopold, and on May 20, 1898, Sir Thomas, in his
ninetieth year, was gathered to his fathers. Loss of
friends is one of the appointed trials of old age, but the

stroke is tempered by the thought that the separation
cannot be for long. The most affectionate of brothers,
the most loyal and staunch of comrades, he scarcely

missed them, as one by one they obeyed the silent
summons which he himself was awaiting. * In the old
man,' writes Froude, ' nature has fulfilled her work : she

loads him with her blessings; she fills him with the
fruits of a well-spent fife ; and, surrounded by his chil-

dren and his children's children, she rocks him softly away
to a grave, to which he is followed with blessings.'

   As late as 1899, though growing feebler j^ear by
year, Acland paid his accustomed visits to Killerton
and to other West Country haunts, and to his son at
Malvern. In the summer of that year he took a house
on Boar's Hill, a mile or two from Oxford, where he

could enjoy the view of the distant spires and towers,

and could sit out in the garden among the birds, and,
as the * glimmering landscape ' faded on the sight, drink
in the sweet night air and watch the glow-worms. But

the longing for home grew quickly on him, and after
a few weeks he was moved back to Broad Street for

the last time. He could still enjoy his daily drive, and
often he would be wheeled in a wicker bath-chair by

his old coachman into one of the College gardens or
into the Parks where the sight of the Museum was a
never-faihng pleasure. He loved to watch the children

at their play, and was never happier than when some

                                           Kk
498  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

of his own grandchildren were gathered round him.
Sometimes he would be wheeled down to the Cathedral
when service was going on, and if he did not feel equal
to taking his usual seat in the stalls, Francis, the Dean's

verger, would place him in the vergers' seats. He
would still make an occasional call on Professor Max
Muller or the venerable Warden of New College.
His intimacy with Miss Felicia Skene, dating from the
cholera days of 1854, remained uninterrupted ; and he
delighted in seeing all and any of his old friends when

they could find their way to Broad Street.

   I shall not forget (writes Mrs. Holman Hunt), nor
I hope will the memory grow dim of the last visits we paid

him in Oxford, when, though enfeebled, his courteous kind-
ness and strenuous interest in all things beautiful and of

good report was as marked as it could have been in a man
in the prime of life ; his was a gracious spirit irradiating

courtesy.

   But though his intellectual interests remained keen,
and his burning desire ' to be of use ' was undimmed,

his thoughts were concentrating more and more on that

great change which every day was bringing nearer to
him, and on that future which was soon to surrender

all its mysteries. Acland was never a man who obtruded
his religion on others, save by the example of a pious

and godly life, and if I have dwelt but little on it in
these pages, it is because I know that nothing would

have been more distasteful to him than to drag into
the light of day the inner workings of a devout and

a contrite heart. It is not too much to say that from
early boyhood every thought and action of his life was

guided by religion ; and to a chosen few, both in his

letters and in conversation, he was wont to reveal the
depths of spiritual feeling and a touching humihty of

faith. Two sayings of men whom he had loved and

reverenced were often on his lips. Once in early days

he had talked with Faraday on the probable employ-
ments of a future life, and the older man had broken an
I901]  LAST DAYS  499

interval of silence with the triumphant outburst : ' That
which I know best and anticipate most is that I shall
go to be with Christ.' At a later date, when William
Donkin, the gentle and learned Professor of Astronomy,
was slowly sinking under consumption, he had said to
Acland, who was seated by his side : ' Were it not for
Christianity I should not have cared to live.' The
words of Faraday were written on the flyleaf of Acland's
Bible ; those of Donkin were quoted by him in one of
the last of his published writings.

   At one time or another Acland had been brought into
contact with many types of religious thought, and with

many men to whom creeds and formularies were sounds
of little meaning. He had come under the spell of
Newman, he had been the friend of Pusey and Liddon, of
Stanley, and of Maurice; he had known and honoured

James Martineau ; he was on cordial terms with Huxley
and Tyndall. But the faith which consoled and strength-

ened him in his last years was the same simple belief

which he had learned under his father's roof. Regular

attendance at public worship and participation in the

Holy Communion were to him not merely a sacred
duty, they were a necessity of his existence. Broad-

minded and tolerant to all, he was essentially a son of
the Church of England : her prayers, her ordinances,

her spirit were the very fibre of his being. Let the
sentences with which he closed his will stand as his

last earthly confession :

   And now with a deep sense of the mercy and goodness

of God to me and mine through parents, children and

friends, and by the saintly life of my dear wife gone before,

I commit my soul to my Heavenly Father in the faith and

love of Christ, and hope for forgiveness of my shortcomings
in my holy profession ; and I pray that the faithful study of

all nature may in Oxford and elsewhere lead men to the
knowledge and love of God, to faith and to charity, and
to the further prevention and relief of the bodily and mental
sufferings of all races of mankind.
500  HENRY ACLAND  [1887-

   The end was not far off. During the winter of 1899-
1900 he was gradually 'wearing out.' Miss Acland,

who for years had watched over him with a tenderness

and a care such as only a devoted daughter can give,
was now scarcely ever out of his sight ; and, weak and

enfeebled as he had become, he never failed to show
that grateful appreciation of all that was done for him,
which is so touching at the moment, so inexpressibly
comforting in memory when the loved object has passed
beyond the reach of earthly care.

   The disasters that marked the early stages of the
South African War affected him terribly. The only
alleviation to his depression was the interest which
he took in the agencies for providing for the widows

and orphans, and for sending clothes and comforts to

the troops. It brought back to his mind that Crimean

winter when he and his wife had organized working

parties and had appealed to the undergraduates for the
gift of their flannels and boating-jerseys.

    In September, 1900, it became an increasing fatigue
to go upstairs, and a bed was made for him in the
dining-room where he could lie looking out into his

little garden. All the pictures and busts and curios

were in their usual places, and he liked to have his
favourite cast of Behnes' bust of Queen Victoria set
close by him. During these last days the only wish
that he ever expressed was that he might see * his

Queen' once more.
    And when death came, it seemed to come robbed of

all its terrors, a/^Xrjxpos fiaXa toio?, * ever so gently.' On

 October 16, there was a sudden failure ; his doctor,
 Mr. Steedman, thought the end was at hand, and Admiral

 Acland, who was in London, and himself suffering from
 the effects of a serious accident, was telegraphed for.

 Sir Henry rallied a little, and was just able to recognize
 his dearly loved eldest son. But he never spoke again.
 Dean Paget pronounced the words of Committal from
 the Prayer Book, and Miss Acland could tell that her
I90I]  LAST DAYS  501

father was just conscious ; then in a few moments all

was over, and he had passed away without a pang.
   On the 19th he was carried to his last resting-place

by his wife's side in Holywell Cemetery, through streets
lined by a hushed and sorrowing crowd. 'There was
not a child in Oxford but knew him,' said one of the

spectators. It was a beautiful autumn day, and the
Oxford of which he was so proud had never looked
fairer. One of Acland's favourite readings had been

the Story of the Robins in Mrs. Gatty's Parables from
Nature; and as the bier was borne to the graveside
a little robin sang brightly its song of hope.

       Kk 3
                               INDEX

Abeken, 57, 70, too.     iii.        Acland, Mrs. T. D., 106, 113,
Abercromljie, Dr., 108,
Acland, Agnes (Mrs. Mills), 10,              175 «, 177.
                                        Sir William A. Dyke, Rear-

                                            Admiral, 169, 323, 324, 325,

   23 «, 332, 497.       no,         Aliso3n26,,  374, 436,  475,  500.                                           et
Arthur, 9, 24, 35, 81,                            Professor        P., 108
                                                             W.

                               173,   seq., 117, 118, 125, 169, 176,

   294, 3S2.                                 177, 245.
Charles Baldwin. 10,1 7, 18,32, 47.
Dudley Reginald, 10, 47.             AAUnMdbrruset.w,t,,11P8rDoefret. ssseJoaqrm., Ce1lsi2,f4fo, r1d1323,5, ,2521247.63.,
Lady Harriet, 3.
Henrietta Ann, Lady (Wife of         AAAnrrcgshoy4,nl7l,7,Jo, sSD4eiu7rp8kh.We, ilo3lif5a,0m2, 2,355.418.8.

   Ninth Baronet), 3, 50.               Duchess of, 194.
Henry Dyke, 321, 322, 475.
Mrs. Henry (Sarah Cotton), 42,

115, 116, 122, 124, 126, 128,

148, 179, 181, 237, 297, 31S,

319, 322, 326, 364, 374 et seq.,     Babington, Dr. G. G., 84, 95,

    393. 456, 471-                           98, 173.
Herbert Dyke, 374.
                                     BBaanlyn,eDrmr.a, n3,15S. ir Alexander, 266,
Sir Hugh, i.
John Barton, 10, 132.
John Dyke, Major, 2.                  267.
Lydia, 10, 18, 27, 28.               Lady, 266.
li,Lydia Elizabeth, Lady (Wife of    Barker, Rev. William, %"].
Tenth Baronet), 5,       32, 43,     Barry, E. M., 211.
                                     Beale, Dr. Lionel,
51, 94,96, 97,232.                   Bedford, Duke of,       148,  340.
Peter Leopold, Rev., 10, 18, 71,                             339,  340.
                                     BBBieiblllilis,nig,DsrS.,pGDiro.r.,,J.,53589,32,5, 649.03.8, 450.
   97, 326, 474', 497-               Birmingham, ]\Ir.,
Miss S. A., 173 n, i-z-^, 326, 374,  Brine, Mrs., 384;/,     19.
                                                             419.
   375, 475-6, 4S2, 500.
Theodore Dyke, 322, 374, 395,

   436.                              Brodie, Sir Benjamin, 33, 46, 81,
Sir Thomas (Seventh Baronet),
                                      89, 98, 99, 100, 108, 112, 113,
2.
Sir Thomas
   Baronet), 3.  Dyke    (Ninth       119, 172, 226, 24s, 257, 260,
                 Dyke    (Tenth
Sir Thomas                            262, 329, 340, 472.
                                        Lady,
Baronet), 3 et seq., 16, 20,         Bruce,        91.       262,  264,                                      265  et
22 «, 24, 32, 33, 35, 37, 47,                     General,

48, 50, 56, 72, 76,80,81, 84//,      BBuucchkseaeqlnl.,a, nA2,l9d6Pe,rrem3siai6dn«e,nRt3,o1b82e.91rt. ,
93, 115, 122, 127 «, 176, 225,       Buckland, Dean, 31, 39, 4°,
                                                                                                             473.
232, 244, 262, 292, 332, 333,                                                                                  131,

   457-                               133, 135, 137, 13S, 150, 151,
Sir Thomas Dyke (Eleventh
                                              171, 226.
   Baronet), 9, 24, 28, 30, 35,
   48, 11, 75, 76, 124, 152, 175,    Bunsen, Baron, 56, 57, 100, 149,
   220,^31 8 n, 332, 474, 475, 483,
    488, 497.                        Burd1o7n4,-S3a4n4-derson, Sir John,

                                      420 et seq., 490.
504 INDEX

Burne-   Jones, Sir E., 229, 231.                  Devon, Earl of, 93, loi.
Butler,   Rev. George, 26, 205, 208,                  Countess of, 51,
                                                   Donkin, William         'j't^.
  Re3v7.0C. , D.D., 24.                                                            135,                           199,
                                                                            F.,
Butterfield, William, 358.
                                                   Duffe49r9in- , Countess of,     491.
                                                   Duncan,        P. B., 150.
                                                   Dyke, of       Tetton, 2.

Carnarvon, Earl of, 70, 178,                       the name, 13.

Caru3s4,0,Ca3r5l1,G4u0s8ta,v,4731.20, 137.         EEErlcdikcomhnsa,ennL,,orLdSi,eiru2tJ.3e6nEan.n,. t,1765.9 «.
Victor, 148, 390, 474.
III,Chambers, Dr. W. F., 46, 58,
74, 86,94, 95, 100,                          112,

113.
   Dr. T. K.,
Chase, Rev.    D39.9.P.,  200,    205.             Faraday,       Professor, 149, 498.
Chesney, Sir George,                               Faussett,       Canon Godfrey, 145,
Christison, Sir Robert,       453.    117;^,
                               108,                         146,   199.

        257,  329, 334-   200.                     Fehmi,         Achmet,  Capitan                                Pasha,
              Dean, 143,
Church,                                                    64, 66, 67, 68.
ClaSrikr eW, illSiairmJ,am1e48s., 257, 259.
Clayton, Edward, 71.                               FFeisshdeorr,ff,ReEvd. wTahrodm, a3s5,2.28, 29, 31,

Clifton, Professor, 302, 484.                              328.
Coleridge,    LRo.rdH, .3, 4356,635et8.seq.
Collins, Sir                                       Fletcher, Mrs., 51, ii4«.
Conington, Professor John,
Consort, H.R.H. Prince,                      311.  FFFFloooorrrwsbteteeessrrc,,,uESeRdi,riwgHWhaotrindU.,HiaoCm1na2,.3p.t3W.0M4. .aEt.t,h4e3w5,.
                                             259,

        260, 281 «, 297, 317, 490.                 19, 23,50, 82 «.
                                                   Freeman,       Professor, 425.
Conybeare, Rev. C. R., 199,                        Frere, Sir     Bartle, 359, 361,

Cott4o6n3,.   Rev.  ArStihrurHeBn.,ry3,22.Lord     et seq.                                                        400
   Right      Hon.
                                                   Lady, 400, 404.
Justice, 106, 114, 475.
Phoebe,
Rev. R.       19L3..,  D.D.,    202,         205,  Gaisford, Dean, 35, 54 n, 71,
                                                          72,76, 119,125,139,141,147,
224.
Sarah, i'^^ Acland, Mrs. Henry.
William, 114, 1 1 6, 120,                          210.
Rev. William, 42, 114,            378.             Galton, Sir
                                  116.             Gladstone,     Douglas, 339,      368.                         E.,
                                                                  Right Hon.
Courtenay, Hon. and Rev.                                                            W.

Charles, 40, 43, 44, 46, 53,                       4, 10, 70, 91, 172, 201, 226,

58, 59, 79, 81, 85 et seq., 92,                    282??, 312, 330-1, 336, 349,
93,96,105, 122,361,419,475,
                                                   432, 452, 458, 482 et seq., 493
                                                   et seq.
497-                                               GoMldrss.c,h4m87id. t, Otto,
Coxe, Rev. H.          O., 313.                    Goodsir, John, 108,
Cromer, Lord,          436, 449.                                                 361, 362.                        120,
                                                                                   117 «,
                                                           123, 125,478.
                       D
                                                   Gordon, General Charles, 389,
Darwin, Charles,
Daubeny, Dr. C,           302, 305, 347-8.         435 et seq.
                            126, 133, 135,         Miss, 436.
                                                      Rev. Osborne,
138, 150, 156, 159, 164;/, 198,                    Graham, Right           36, 104, 239 n.
                                                                           Hon. Sir James,
        205, 212, 244, 315, 416.
                                                   93-
Derby, Earl of, 213, 226.
                                INDEX                                                                             505

Green, Joseph Henry, 149, 472.                               K
Greenhill, Dr., 82, 126, 187.
Greenwood, John, 27, 28, 34546,          Keble, Rev. John, 140.
                                         Kidd, Dr., 87, 92, 119, 122, 133,
Gres5w8e. ll, Rev.
                    Richard,    199,     134, 135, 137, 138, 141, 142,
        200, 204.               357,
                     106, 334,           King2,45B, is3h09o,p,39397-9 «, 4^7, 426.
Gull, Sir William,                       Kingsley, Rev. Charles, 183.

398.                                     Knowles,      James, 361.
                                         Kolk, Van      der, 304, 319.
                H

Hadji, 64, 66.         D.D.,
Harington, Rev. R.,
Hart, Ernest, 398.              198.

   Horace,  55 «,  34i-         D.D.,    Lake, Dean,         158.      339.
             Rev.   Edward,              Lambert, Sir
Hawkins,                                                      John,
                                         Lankester, Professor Ray, 301,
HeadJ.,99S.ir Edmund, 268, 270, 277,
                                                 314,  396   «,  397.  166,                                 168,  240.
        279, 283.                                       Dr.  P.
                                         Latham,                 M.,
Herbert, Right Hon. Sidney, 312,         Lee, Bishop Prince, 97.
Hoar3e1,3,H4e4n9r.y, 5, 6, 23, 27, 46.      Dr. Matthew, 133, 135.
                                         Leighton, Rev. F. Knyvett, 75 «,
    Mrs. Henry, 27, 46, 361.
   Sir Richard, 3.                       11^ 233.
HHoolblabns,d,38.Sir Henry, 282 «, 290,  Leopold, H.R.H.         Prince,                                          et
                                                                                                            366
                                             seq., m.
                                         LLLLeeeidwpvdseiesisul,,ls,J,W.H5\Do7..Dn, ..3, 5F50.4.,A.5,5-75-
Holm33e1s-, Oliver Wendell, 296, 410.
Hooker, Sir WiUiam,
Hort, Professor, 207,   I49> S^S-        Dean, 23       «,       3l6o, i,371,074,5,11675, ,                        71,
                       308 «, 318.                     100,                                                       119,
Houghton, Lord, 4, 8, 330.                   91, 96,
                                         122, 124, 127, 147, 170, 230 «,
Hughes, Miss, 191.                       233, 234, 242, 243, 259, 300,
Hunt, Holman, 229, 470.
   Mrs. Holman, 498.                     321,330, 337^,338,340, 343.
Hunter, Sir William, 49 1.               364, 365, 369, 425> 427, 482,

Huxley, Professor, 302 et seq.,          483, 491, 497-
                                            Mrs., 38, 234.
357, 361,483-                            Liddon, Canon, 427, 445, 499.
                                         Lind, Jenny, 361, 362.
Inglis, Sir Robert, 4. 8, 73. 99,        Livingstone, Dr., 491.
                                         Longley, Archbishop, 24, 26,
         171, 2CO.
                                                  306.
Jackson, Dr., 171, 242, 243.
                                         Lushington, Sir Godfrey, 233.
    Dean Cyril, 5.                       Lyell, Sir Charles, 226.
Jacobson, Bishop, 152, 199, 246.         Lyons, Lord, 287.

Jelf, Rev. R. W., D.D., 130, 199,                            M

          202.                           Macdonald, Sir John A., 271.
                                         McClellan, General, 289, 354, 355.
Jenner, Sir William, 315.                Mcllvaine, Bishop, 296.
Jeune, Bishop, 198, 205, 415.            Macready, William, 107, 362.
Johnson, Manuel, 131, 193, 199,          Manning, Cardinal, 70, 361.
Jowe20t5t,. Professor, I13, 310, 415,    Mansel, Dean, 200, 348.
                                         Marlborough, Duke of, 253, 313,
         417, 427, 481, 482.
                                                  318.
5o6 INDEX

Marriott, Rev. Charles, 42, 70,                                                                 Palmer, Samuel, 469,
                                                                                                PPPPeaaaltanmtriisszeoozrnnis,,t,oSCnRirh,eavAVr..l,iesMsclaooruHik,ne,tn3,14ry41276,4?. 0, 7.53,317.6,
        143, 146, 190, 199, 210.

Martineau, James, 499.
Maskelyne, see Story-Maske-

        lyne.                                                                                   95 «, 115, 126, 143, 236,

Maurice, Rev. F. U., 89, 100.                                                                   243, 375-
Mayo, Charles, 352.                                                                             Rev. Hugh, 26, 27.
MelvUle, Dr., 148.                                                                              Pegge, Sir Christopher, 122,
Menge, Dr., 474.                                                                                PPhheilllpipss, ,RePvro. feWs.soWr .,J.,25,         137.
MMMMiiiicnllllhnasee,islslA,,ortStRhaireu, vrJ,o.BhiR3snh3.,2oE.pD..,Do1f.,,7341-14909,.. 214.                                                 26.  205,
Moresby, Admiral Sir Fairfax,                                                                                                                159,
                                                                                                               225 «, 302,306,315.
                                                                                                        217,   Rev. H. W., 101.

                                                                                                Phillott,
                                                                                                Phipps, Sir Charles 13., 260, 262,

32, 46, 49 et seq., 56, 59, 64                                                                          298.
et seq.
Morpeth, Lord, 8.                                                                               Plumptre, Rev. F., D.D., 156,

MMourirrhise,adW,illLiaiomn,el,222915e,t  seq.                                                           157,  210.         135,             164 «,
                                          466.
Miiller, Max, 148, 186 «, 233,                                                                  Pode, C.       C, 314.
                                                                                                Powell,
                                                                                                               Rev. Baden,
                                                                                                199, 2i9«, 416.
        286 «, 344, 381,  427, 498.                                                             Prestwich, Professor, 302, 487.
                          237, 471.                                                             PPrriecveo,stR, eAvd. mBiraarlt,ho6l4o,m6e9.w, 205,
Munro, Alexander,
Musgrave, Mr., 432.

                  N                                                                                      343-

NNNaeeiawrtnce,a,sDCtlhre.a,,rl9eD6s.u, k1e89,of3, 652.64, 266,                                 Pusey, Lady Emily, 42 «, 106.
                                                                                                   Rev. E. B., D.D., 17, 42, 140,
279 et seq.
                                                                                                        145, 146, 190, 199, 203, 210,

                                                                                                        225, 310, 331, 344, 349, 376,
                                                                                                        384, 415 et seq.

Newman, Cardinal, 42, 413,                      4lo19i,.
Newton, Sir Charles, 36, ^i,

        155, 216, 224, 230.                                                                     Radcliffe,     Dr. John, 133,                308.
                                                                                                Redcliffe,     Lord Stratford                de, 62.
Nightingale, Florence, 191, 450,

480-1.                                                                                          Richards, Rev. L., D.D., 199.
                                                                                                Richmond, George, R.A., 57, 58,

                                                                                                      70, 85, loi, 104, 105, 175,
North, Rev.J.J.   H., 88, 89.             71,   106.
Northcote,     J.,SirStafford,
Norris, Rev. D.D.,
Norton, Charles, 296.                                   12 J.199,416.                           Rive4s7, 1.W. W.,
                                                                                                Roberts, Rev.
                                                                                                      4,           292.     18.
                                                                                                                   R., 17,
                                                                                                Robertson, Charles, 144,
                                                                                                                                                    148,

Ogle, Dr.    A., 126, 135, 142,                                                                         171,478.

159, 222, 239,241.                                                                              Rolleston, Professor George, 145,

Oron-hya-tekha,      283-285.                                                                   233, 264, 300, 304, 365, 398,
O'Shea, 217, 218,    220.
                                                                                                400, 417.
Owen, Sir Richard, Professor,                                                                   Rosebery, Earl of, 489.
                                                                                                Rossetti, D. G.,    n,227, 229, 469.
94, 98, 99, 100, 120, 128, 144,                                                                 Ruskin, John, 14,
                                                                                                                   35, 40, 41,
149, 302 et seq.                                                                                45,71, 84, loi, 105, 128, 131,

                                                                                                167, 173, 174, 214,215, 216,

PaSgiert,GeBoirsgheo, p,33540.0.                                                                        222, 223, 224, 227, 228, 235,
   Sir James, 89, 106, 109, 128 «,                                                                     244, 316 «, 321, 368 et seq.,
                                                                                                        383,427,428,469, 476, 487, 497.
        327, 398, 479-                                                                             Mrs., 173.

                                                                                                Ryle, Bishop, 358.
                                                                     INDEX                                                                                                                                                                        507

                                                                                                                                                         Thornton, Henry, 6.
                                                                                                                                                            Rev. William,
SSta.dlGere,rmAladienrsm, anLo, rd16, 4  «, 365 «.                                                                                                                                     50.         475,   476.
                                         264, 265,                                                                                                       TTrreanilc,hD, rC.,oo10k9e.,  431,

         281, 296.                                                                                                                                       Trevelyan, Sir Walter,                           175, 328.
                                                                                                                                                         Troyte, Arthur, see                               Acland,
Salisbury, Marquis of, 133«, 177,

220, 340, 345 et seq.,                                               452,                                                                                       Arthur.
488 et seq.                                                          114,                                                                                Tuckwell, Rev. William, 122,
   Marchioness of,
Sandon, Viscount,        377.                                                                                                                                     137,   142, 163, 239.                   252,                                    335,
                           178.
Selwyn, Bishop George,                                                                                                                                   Turner,         Sir William,

       491.                                                                                                                                                      398,    473, 475, 478.
                                                                                                                                                                         John, 355.
Severn, Joseph, 57, 106, 131,                                                                                                                            Tyndall,

         175,  231 n.    E.,  D.D.,                                  421,                                                                                Varley, John, 467.
                                                                                                                                                         VVeicrtnoeryia, ,SirHeHrarrMy,aj4e,st4y04.Queen,
Sewell,        Rev. J.

498.
Sharpe, Granville, 6 n.
Short, Rev. Augustus,
Siddal, Miss, 227, 228.                  37  n.                                                                                                          Vro..l2ik25, ,   259, 263,    490,
                                                                                                                                                                         Professor,     128
SSSkmkeidintmhe,,orFPeer,olifcMeiasr,.s,or129212G, ,o42l9d38w9..in,                                                                                                                                 500.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   «, 304.

                                                                     237,                                                                                                W

319-                                                                                                                                                     Wales, H.R.H. Albert Edward,
Eleanor, 385.                                                                                                                                                   Prince of, 259, 262 et seq.,

Professor H.   Jl.oiS..,      343,           351                     71.                                                                                 265 et seq., 315, 316, 326,357,
Rev. Sidney,                                                                                                                                             -ill-
Right Hon. W. H., 29 n, 387,                                                                                                                             Walker, Sir Baldwin, 64.
                                                                                                                                                            Rev. R.,
451-2.                                                                                                                                                   Walpole,        135, 141, 150,                   159, 199.
Sneyd, Rev. Lewis, "Ji, 199, 233.
                                                                                                                                                                         Right Hon.                       Spencer,

Spencer,       Herbert,  354.                                                                                                                            WWWWaeaatlrtls2idtno5s,6gn,,Wt,oG2.n.S57,iGF.r..,,TD2h1u20ok79me. eaotsf,,se92q53.7,,,
Stanley,       Lord, 8.

Dean, 123, 199, 317, 342, 415,                                                                                                                                                                                                                    356.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 470.
       483.    Grainger,                 493.                                                                                                                                                                                                    202.
               William,                  162,                                                                                                            Wentworth, William, 13;;.
Stewart, Sir                                                         173,                                                                                WWWWeihhlbseittewmlroeficolnlkr,sc,teeD1,rr6,.2,W, D3i3l1ul7i6ka9,em. 3,2o8f,.6,33213..
Stokes, Dr.

        257, 319, 378 «.

Stopford, Admiral, 64, 66.
Story-Maskelyne, M. H. N., 159,
        200, 302.
                                                                                                                                                         Bishop Samuel, 23, 49, 194,
Symons, Rev. Benjamin, D.D.,
247 n.
                                                                                                                                                         Willi1a9m9, s3,02Proetfessesqo.r Monier,
                                                                                                                                                         Wilson, Rev. J. M., D.D.,                                                                344.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  143,

TTTTTTTaaeehealteamoybalsmloep,odt,plrae,J,s.lP,eoBrTN,Anioids.r,mS,ghciihoA4,nrb9pl,l2Ci,1es.0h3nh470r,o2,i1sp2,W3t.,o148]p73h62n«.9e.,,r,33632206..5.  WWWoiinnlsts2oe0oul0er,r,y, 4,D1Jro6..hFJniueslCtdinr-aM,wa3fro8s3rh,d,a4l11203.V. is-
ThSoimr sHoenn,ryA, r3cSh0b. ishop, 340.
                                                                                                                                                         WWoooocdlno,uenrRt,,evT4.h5Jo0..mGa.s, ,  144.   470.
   Arthur, 478.                                                                                                                                                                                     223,
                                                                                                                                                         Wootton, Dr., 120, 161.
                                                                                                                                                         Woodward, Benjamin, 211, 214,

                                                                                                                                                         218, 223, 226, 227, 229, 311,

                                                                                                                                                         320, 392,471-
                Oxford

Printed at the University Press

        by HoHAtK Hart
'!^--"-  vnvT" mam'-A ym. .swwtt^tMaBei-rfHras.:           | Mmi | mm

          UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY

                                      Los Angeles
         This book is DUE on the last date stamped below.

%» MAR2619tt

                                      REGD

JUN2

Form L9-40jn-5,'67(H2161s8)4939
3 1158 00359 4925

