The life of Frederic William Farrar, D.D., F.R.S., etc., sometime dean
of Canterbury.

Farrar, Reginald.
New York, T.Y. Crowell & company [1904]
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044014774095

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
Tloihfefeetc.,dDe.DanCsFFWoara.mneiRltrdeleri.rteabaSimrumr.ircey,

FReagrinraaldr
"Bit If 2 cb, i 7

                                                                                                                                    и

               tmrvarfc Colleoc Xtbrar?

                                                              FROM

                Radcllffe College
                        Library
(VI
           THE LIFE OF
FREDERIC WILLIAM FARRAR
fBoohs by Dean arrar

MEN I HAVE KNOWN. 12mo. $1.75:

GREAT BOOKS. 16mo- $1.25.

THE PATHS OF DUTY. 12mo. 35 cents.

LIFE OF CHRIST.  Illustrated. 2 rots.
                     12 mo. Cloth. $2.50.
                     12mo. Half Calf. $5.00.

THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO.

                    BBW YORK
.\
'Ji '*  -.vffi-'- if ╗ ';

                           . v- .

                                   .'..-' '''-Б-

*#-                        :^*i
            THE LIFE

                                                 OF

FREDERIC WILLIAM FARRAR

                                 D.D., F.R.S., etc.
                      SOMETIME DEAN OF CANTERBURY

                                     BY HIS SON

                   REGINALD FARRAR

THOMAS      NEW YORK

        Y. CROWELL & COMPANY
           PUBLISHERS
re^ k3ofc.r/

                                                   Copyright, 1904,
                                      BY THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CX>.

                                                             Published March, 1904.
           TO

MY MOTHER
21KDM

3oi'
ant I

 'Sjfa
  "ии-::;
  3.1
   '-"31!

    ."^
      :'и,,:
                       PREFACE

  In writing my father's life, I have aimed at producing

rather a memoir of such length as should be within the
compass of the general reader than a complete and

exhaustive biography. I have adopted the method of

inviting friends and colleagues who were associated
with my father at different periods of his life to con
tribute reminiscences of those periods, and to these
friends, naming them in the order in which their con
tributions appear in this book, it is now my pleasant

dreustpyotnosete;ndtoer--hearty thanks for their kind and generous
   Professor E. Spencer Beesly.
   Sir Edwin Arnold, K. C. S. I.
   His Honour Judge Vernon Lushington.
   Canon Henry Bell.
   Mr. George Russell.
   Mr. Walter Leaf.
   V. S.
   The Very Reverend Dr. H. Montagu Butler, Master

of Trinity College, Cambridge.
   Mr. E. F. E. Thompson.
   The Reverend Dr. H. A. James, Head Master of

Rugby School.
   Professor C. E. Vaughan.

   Mr. C. L. Graves.
   J. D. R.
   The Right Reverend Bishop Montgomery.
viii PREFACE

The Reverend W. E. Sims.

The Reverend W. J. Somerville.

The Venerable Archdeacon Vesey.
Mr. T. Archibald Brooks, Principal of the Govern

ment High School, Delhi.

The Reverend Canon Page-Roberts.

  The following members of my own family, Mrs. J. S.
Thomas, The Honourable Mrs. J. S. Northcote, The

Reverend Eric M. Farrar, and The Reverend Ivor G.

Farrar have contributed reminiscences, which I grate

Ifully acknowledge.       dedicate this volume, and my

   My mother, to whom

wife have given me much valuable assistance in the

way of advice and criticism and in revising the proof

sheets.

  I have also to acknowledge permission courteously

accorded me by the respective editors to make extracts

from the following periodicals ; from --

The Temple Magazine.      The Quiver.
The British Monthly.      The Manchester Guardian.

The Cornhill Magazine. The Morning Advertiser.

                  Great Thoughts.

  I  have also,   bfryomper"mMisesnionI  of the  Kpnuobwlisnhe" rsa,ndmatdhee
     of extracts                         Have
use
"Biographical Life of Christ" (Cassell & Co.). A
bibliography of my father's principal published writings,

compiled by Miss Zoe Hawley, has been added.

   To the help thus promptly and generously given is

mainly due whatever of value the Memoir may possess.

IIf I may be allowed a word of personal reference,

would beg indulgence for many shortcomings in the

work, of which I am painfully conscious, on the ground
PREFACE  ix

that it has been compiled in the scant leisure of a busy

official life. I have tried impartially to paint the por

trait of my father as he lived, not ignoring the fact that
his work was often the subject of criticism, but writing
throughout, as a son must needs write of such a father,

in a spirit of loving reverence. If I have in any meas

ure conveyed the lesson that a manhood spent in the
service of God and his fellow-men was the direct out
come of a youth of stainless purity and strenuous effort,

Iif have helped any to realise the renowned preacher

and writer as a genial friend, a most loving husband,

Iand a most tender father, have not wholly failed in

my task.
                                                                  R. FARRAR.

    Chiswick,
          November, 1903.
                     CONTENTS

Bibliography                                          FACE

                                                      xiii

CHAFTKR                                               i

     I. Childhood and Reminiscences of his Parents .

II. The Schoolboy                                     10

III. The Student                                      21

   IV.  The Undergraduate                             38
    V.
  VI.   Assistant Master at Marlborough               53
 VII.
        Harrow Days                                   71
VIII.
        ....Head-master of Marlborough . . . .141
   IX.  The Life of Christ and Other Theological

        Writings                                      191

        St. Margaret's, Westminster                   216

X. The Parish Priest                                  234

XI. The Preacher of "Eternal Hope" . . . 254

XII. Visit to America                                 284

XIII. Bread upon the Waters                           302

XIV. Dean of Canterbury                               313

Index                                                 353
             ILLUSTRATIONS

Dean Farrar                                          Frontispiece

          Photogravure of a Portrait from Life.  ....FACING FACE
                                                                                            2
Charles Pinhorn Farrar                                                                    10

          Father of Dean Farrar.

King William's College, Isle of Man

Trinity College, Cambridge                           38

The Park, Harrow                                     94

Where Farrar lived as Assistant Master.

Mrs. Farrar                                          118

Dr. Farrar, Mrs. Farrar, and a Group of Students     132
     at Harrow                                       166

Dr. Farrar in Middle Life

St. Margaret's and Westminster Abbey . . . 218

The Deanery, Canterbury                              314
Deanery Study, Canterbury                            324

Dean Farrar                                          336

           Last Photograph taken.                    348

Canterbury Cathedral

Second Arch from right is Site of the Dean's Grave.
A
                    BIBLIOGRAPHY

People of England.                  1857
                    Longmans.

                                                  1858

An Essay on the Christian Doctrine of Atonement. Bell and

       Daldy. 1 edition.

Eric; or, Little by Little. A. & C. Black. Thirty-sixth edition,

1903.

Lyrics of Life. Macmillan.  1859

                            i860

Julian Home : a Tale of College Life. A. & C. Black.   Eighteenth
       edition, 1902.
                                                                    *
The Origin of Language, based on Modern Researches
       Murray. 1 edition.                             : an Essay.

                            1 86a

St. Winifred's; or, the World of School. Originally published
      anonymously. 1862. A. & C. Black. Twenty-sixth edition,

1903.

                            1865

Chapters on Language. Longmans. 3 editions.

                                                  1866
Greek Grammar Rules. Longmans. Twenty-second edition, 1899.

                                                  1867

Greek Syntax, and Hints on Accidence. Longmans. Thirteenth
       edition, 1897.

Defects in Public School Education : a Lecture. Macmillan.
xiv BIBLIOGRAPHY

                              1868

Seekers after God. Macmillan. Seventeenth edition, 1902.                        edi
The Fall of Man, and Other Sermons. Macmillan. Seventh

       tion, 1893.

                                                  1870
Families of Speech : Four Lectures. Longmans. 2 editions.

                                                  1871
The Witness of History to Christ: the Hulsean Lectures for 1870.

      Macmillan. Ninth edition, 1892.

                              1873

Silence and the Voices of God, with Other Sermons. Macmillan.

       Eighth edition, 1892.                                      Cassell.

The Three Homes : A Tale for Fathers and Sons.

   Eighteenth edition, 1903.

                                                  1874
The Life of Christ. Cassell. Ninth edition now being published.

                                                  1876

In the Days of thy Youth : Sermons preached at Marlborough
       College. Macmillan. Eleventh edition, 1899.

                                                  1878

Eternal Hope: Five sermons preached in Westminster Abbey.
       Macmillan. Eighteenth edition, 1901.

Language and Languages, Families of Speech, etc. Longmans.
       Sixth edition, 1899.

Saintly Workers : Five Lenten Lectures. Macmillan. Fifth edition,

        1892.

                                                  1879  Cassell.  10 editions.
Life and Work of St. Paul, with maps.

A
BIBLIOGRAPHY                                           xv

                                                  1880

Ephphatha ; or, the Amelioration of the World : Sermons. Mac-
       millan. Second edition, 1891.

The Gospel according to St. Luke, with maps, notes, and intro
       duction. (Camb. Bib. for Schools.) Cambridge University
       Press. Seventeenth edition, 1902.

1 881

Mercy and Judgement. Macmillan. Third edition, 1894.
Words of Truth and Wisdom. W. H. Allen. Third edition, 1900.

       Grant, Edinburgh.

1882

The Early Days of Christianity.  Cassell. 5 editions.  Marshall.
Music in Religion and Life :     a Sermon. Simpkin,

       1 edition.

                                                 1883

General Aims of Teacher and Form Management : Two Lectures
      delivered in the University of Cambridge by F. W. Farrar
      and R. B. Poole. Cambridge University Press. Second edition,

         1895.

My Object in Life. Cassell. Eighth edition, 1894.
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews, with notes and

       introduction. (Camb. Bib. for Sch.) Cambridge University
       Press. Fifth edition, 1902.

                                                 1884

The Message of the Books: Discourses and Notes on the New
       Testament. Macmillan. Fifth edition, 1897.

The Gospel according to St. Luke in Greek, with maps, notes, and
       introduction. (Camb. Gk. Text for Sch.) Cambridge Univer
       sity Press. Ninth edition, 1903.

                                                 1886
The History of Interpretation : Bampton Lectures, 1885. Macmillan.
Sermons and Addresses delivered in America. Macmillan. Second

       edition, 1892.
xvi BIBLIOGRAPHY

                                                  1887

Everyday Christian Life : or, Sermons by the Way. Isbister.
       Reprinted repeatedly.

Solomon, his Life and Times. (Men of the Bible.) Nisbet

                                                 1888

Africa, Drink Trade. (From Contemporary Review") Home Words

        Office.

                                                  1889

Lives of the Fathers : Church History in Biography. A. & C. Black.
Sermons. Sonnenschein. Fourth edition, 1898.
The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews, in Greek, with notes

      and introduction. (Camb. Gk. Text for Sch.) Cambridge Uni
      versity Press. Third edition, 1894.

                       1890

The Gospel according to St. Luke. (Smaller Camb. Bib. for Sch.)
       Cambridge University Press. Eighth edition, 1900.

The Minor Prophets. Nisbet. Very large sale.
The Passion Play at Oberammergau. Heinemann. Third edition,

         1900.                                              Isbis

Truths to Live By : Companion to Everyday Christian Life.

       ter. Reprinted repeatedly.
With the Poets : a Selection of English Poetry. Dent.

                                                  1891

Darkness and Dawn : a Tale of the Days of Nero. Longmans.
      Eighth edition, 1898.

Social and Present-day Questions. Hodder. Fourth edition, 1903.

                                                  189a      Isbis

The Voice from Sinai : the Eternal Bases of the Moral Law.
       ter. Reprinted repeatedly.

Our English Minsters.           1893        Isbister.  Reprinted
        repeatedly.    (Joint authorship.)
BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                                xvii

The Lord's Prayer : Sermons in Westminster Abbey.                           Isbister.
                                                                            Hodder.
       Reprinted repeatedly.  (The Expositor's         Bible.)

The First Book of Kings.'
      i edition.

                              1894

Christ, Paul, and Early Christianity.
The Life of Christ as represented in Art. Black. Third edition,

        1901.                 (The Expositor's Bible.)                      Hodder.

The Second Book of Kings.
       Second edition, 1902.

                              189S

Biblical Character Sketches. (Joint authorship.) Nisbet. Third

       edition, 1898.
Gathering Clouds : Days of St. Chrysostom. Longmans. 2 editions.

The Book of Daniel. (The Expositor's Bible.) Hodder.                        Second
       edition, 1903.                                                       Nisbet.

Woman's Work as Daughter, as Wife, and as Mother.

Second edition, 1895.

                                                  1896

The Bible and the Child : the Higher Criticism and the Teaching
      of the Young. (Joint authorship.) Clarke. 1 edition.

The Young Man Master of Himself. Nisbet. Third edition, 1898.

                              1897

Prophets of the Christian Faith.                       (Joint authorship.)  Clarke.
       1 edition.

Sin and its Conquerors. (Preachers of To-day.) Nisbet
The Bible: its Meaning and Supremacy. Longmans. Second

       edition, 1897.
The Herod s. Nisbet. 1 edition.

Westminster Abbey. (Reprinted from "Our English Minsters.")

Isbister. Reprinted repeatedly.

                                                 1898  Dante, Milton,  The Imitation.

Allegories. Longmans. 1 edition.
Great Books : Bunyan, Shakespeare,

       Isbister. Reprinted repeatedly.
xviii BIBLIOGRAPHY

                                                  1899
Temperance Reform as required by National Righteousness and

       Patriotism : Lees and Raper Memorial Lecture. Nisbet.
       Second edition, 1899.
Texts explained; or, Helps to understand the New Testament.
       Longmans.
True Religion : Sermons. Freemantle. Second edition, 1903.
      (World's Pulpit Series.) Brown & Langham.

                                                  1900
Progress in the Reign of Queen Victoria : a Brief Record of Sixty

       Years. Bliss.
Selections : the Life of Christian Service.
The Life of Lives : Further Studies in the Life of Christ. Cassell.

       Second edition, 1903.
                    BIBLIOGRAPHY                                         xix

EDITIONS PUBLISHED IN THE UNITED STATES

Seekers after God.                   1868
                    Lippincott & Co.

                                                  1870                   Macmillan

The Witness of History to Christ : Hulsean Lectures.
      &Co.

                                                  1871  Macmillan & Co.
The Fall of Man and Other Sermons.

                                                  1874  Dutton.

The Life of Christ. Cassell. Dutton. Wendell.
Silence and the Voices of God, with Other Sermons.

                                                  1885
An Eulogy on General Grant; Westminster Abbey, Aug. 4th, 1885.

       Dutton.
Inspiration : a Symposium. Whit taker.
Success in Life : prefaced by a Brief Biography. Cupples.
Treasure Thoughts from the Writings of F. W. Farrar. Lothrop.

                                                  1886

The History of Interpretation: the Bampton Lectures for 1885.
       Dutton.

Lectures, Addresses, Essays. Alden.
Sermons and Addresses delivered in America, with an introduction

       by P. Brooks. Dutton.

                                                  1887

Africa and the Drink Trade. National Temperance.
Books which have influenced Me. Pott.
The Atonement : a Symposium. Whittaker.
Non- Biblical Systems of Religion : a Symposium. Whittaker.
xx BIBLIOGRAPHY

                                                 1888

Everyday Christian Life ; or, Sermons by the Way. - Whittaker.
Solomon: His Life and Times. (Men of the Bible Series.) Ran

       dolph.
Twenty Sermons. (The Contemporary Pulpit) Whittaker.

                                                  1890
The Minor Prophets. (Men of the Bible Series.) Randolph.

The Passion Play at Oberammergau. J. W. Lovell.

Truths to Live By : a Companion to Everyday Christian Life.
       Whittaker.

Wider Hope : Essays and Strictures on the Doctrine and Literature
      of Future Punishment. Dulton.

                                                  1 891
Darkness and Dawn. Longmans.
Places that Our Lord Loved. Prang.
Social and Present-day Questions. Bradley & Co.

                                                  1892
The Voice from Sinai : the Eternal Bases of the Moral Law. Whit

        taker.

In the Days of thy Youth: Sermons preached at Marlborough Col
       lege. Macmillan.

                                                  1893
Eric ; or, Little by Little. Macmillan.
Non-Biblical Systems of Religion: a Symposium. Cranston &

       Curtis.
In the Field with their Flocks Abiding. (Xmas Carol.) Whit

        taker.

Julian Home : a Story of College Life. Macmillan.
St. Winifred's : a Tale of School Life. Macmillan.
The First Book of Kings. (The Expositor's Bible.) A. C. Arm

       strong.
The Lord's Prayer: Sermons preached in Westminster Abbey.

       Whittaker.
BIBLIOGRAPHY                                            xxi

                                                  1894  A. C. Arm

The Cathedrals of England. Whittaker.
The Second Book of Kings. (The Expositor's Bible.)

        strong.

The Life of Christ as represented in Art. Macmillan.

                                                 1895

The Farrar Year-book: Selections from the writings of F. W.
      Farrar, D.D. Dutton & Co.

Gathering Clouds. Longmans.

My Brother and I, by F. W. F. and others. Hunt and Eaton.
The Book of Daniel. (The Expositor's Bible.) Armstrong.
The Life of Christ. 2 Vols. Crowell & Co.
Westminster Abbey and the Cathedrals of England. Winston

     &Co.

                                                 1896

Biblical Character Sketches, by F. W. F. and others. Whittaker.
The Bible and the Child, by F. W. F. and others. Macmillan.
The Path of Duty : Counsels to Young Men. Crowell & Co.
The Three Homes : a Tale for Fathers and Sons. Dutton & Co.

                                                  1897

Lectures on Ecclesiastical History delivered in Norwich Cathedral.

      (St. Ignatius and St. Polycarp, by F. W. F.) Whittaker.
Men I Have Known. Crowell & Co.
The Bible : its Meaning and Supremacy. Longmans.
True Manhood : Sermons. W. B. Ketcham.
Sin and its Conquerors; or, the Conquest of Sin. Fleming H.

       Revell Co.

                                                  1898
Allegories. Longmans.
Great Books. Crowell & Co.
The Life Story of Aner : an Allegory. Longmans.
The Herods. E. R. Herrick. Also Whittaker.

Texts explained; or, Helps  1899           the New      Testament.
       Dodd, Mead & Co.     to understand
    xxii BIBLIOGRAPHY

    Westminster Abbey ; with a chapter on the Poets1 Corner by Dean
           Stanley. Marfsfield & Wessels.

                                                      1900      Dodd,

    The Life of Lives : Further Studies in the Life of Christ.
           Mead & Co.

                                                      1 901
    True Religion : Sermons. Whittaker.

*-
LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                        CHAPTER I

CHILDHOOD AND REMINISCENCES OF HIS PARENTS

Frederic William Farrar was born in the Fort of

Bombay, August 7, 183 1, his father, the Rev. Charles
Pinhorn Farrar, being then a chaplain of the Church

Missionary Society. It has been observed that there is

a certain congruity in the fact that one whose luxuriance

of imagination and diction was said -- at any rate by his
enemies -- to be at times too tropical, should have been

born beneath the "larger constellations burning" of

the gorgeous East. Few traditions are extant of those

early years, but I met in India in 1900 an aged Mahratha

Brahman who was educated and taught English by the

Farrars in Nasik, and who spoke of them with the

utmost affection : and about thirty years ago an old

Mahrathi woman was living who had been in the ser

 vice of the   Farrars at Nasik, and who said  to a lady
' missionary,                                  things as
               " Ah ! you tell me the same
Farrar Mem sahib."
" Freddy Baba," and     This   old  woman   c"oauldgreraetmecmasbee,r"
                               of   him as
                        spoke
i.e. a very lively child. At the age of three, Freddy

Baba was sent home to England with his elder brother

Henry and placed under the care of two maiden aunts,
                        clahdilidehs owodhoarlievepdresaetrvAeydlesibnur"yE. ric,A"
cultured and   refined
few memories    of his
   2 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   which is in some respects autobiographical, and from

   which, therefore, some quotations may be introduced to

   illustrate  this period.    all  about  India ;  it  only hung
      " Very   soon he forgot

   like a distant golden haze on the horizon of his memory.

   When asked if he remembered it he would say, thought

   fully, that in dreams, and at some other times, he saw

   a little boy, with long curly hair, running about in a

   flower-garden, near a great river, in a place where the

   air was very bright. But whether the little boy was

   himself or his brother Vernon, whom he had never

   see"nI,nhehiscobuelddrno'otmqutitheeretelhL"ung a cherub's head, drawn

   in pencil by his mother, and this winged child was
   inextricably identified in his imagination with his ' little
   brother Vernon.' He loved it dearly, and whenever he

   went astray, nothing weighed on his mind so strongly
   as the thought, that if he were naughty he would teach

   little Vernon to be naughty too, when he came home."
   His "little brother Vernon" was an imaginary portrait,

   but the little pencil sketch to which this description

   refers was an actual possession of my father's childhood

   which he dearly cherished, and looked on as, in some

   sort, his guardian angel, and is still preserved.

      His aunts, one of whom is remembered as "Aunt

   Rufella," and the training    which     he received  at their
   hands, are thus described :  " With     Mrs. Trevor  and her
   daughter, religion was not a system, but a habit -- not
   a theory, but a continued act of life. All was simple,

   sweet, and unaffected about their charity and their

   devotions. They loved God and they did all the good
   they could to those around them. The floating gossip

   and ill-nature of the little village never affected them ;

   it melted away insensibly in the presence of their culti-

S
      CHILDHOOD AND REMINISCENCES 3

vated minds ; so that friendship with them was a bond

of union among all, and, from the vicar to the dairy

man, every one loved and respected them, asked their

counsel, and sought their sympathy."

   "They called themselves by no sectarian name, nor

could they have told to what 'party' they belonged.

They troubled themselves with no theory of education,
but mingled gentle nurture with ' wholesome neglect.'

There was nothing exotic or constrained in the growth
of Eric's character. He was not one of the angelically

good children at all, and knew none of the phrases of

which infant prodigies are supposed to be so fond. But

to be truthful, to be honest, to be kind, to be brave --

these lessons had been taught him, and he never quite

forgot them ; nor amid the sorrows of after life did he
                 lose the sense -- learned
ever  q--uitoef                             at  dear, quiet  Fair-
holm             a present loving God, of   a   tender and
                                                             long-

suffering Father."

Thus kindly and wisely nurtured, Fred Farrar passed

a happy childhood, a little fair-haired, blue-eyed fellow,

roaming about the garden and orchard at the bottom of

which ran a clear stream, and which supplied him a

theatre for endless games. He was allowed to go
about a good deal by himself and it did him good. He

grew up fearless and self-dependent and never felt the

want of amusement.

Having been rather a solitary child, he developed at
a very early age a voracious appetite for books. He

had the good fortune to be born and to develop his

literary taste before the modern boom in cheap and

ephemeral fiction, before the flooding of the market

with the abysmal futilities of the modern sixpenny
magazine. The few books to which he had access,

both at this period and in his school days in the Isle
4 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

of Man were perforce read and re-read till they became
a part of himself. Thus he made an early acquaintance

with Scott's novels, of which, as with all boys, "Ivanho*"

was the favourite, and the characters in it grew to be as

real to him as the people in the streets. The little

volume of Milton which his mother gave him when he

was quite a child, and which was his constant compan

ion till the day of his death, he conned so intently and

so  often that,  Lwohsitle"  still  a child,  he  knew many    passages
of  " Paradise                by    heart.        the age of   six Fred
                                              At
                                                                                   Of
tFhaisrrsacrhowoal shseetnhtustosptehaeksLainti"nEsrcicho"o:l   at Aylesbury.
                                                               "Although he    learnt

little there, and gained no experience of the character

of others or of his own, there was one point about Ayrton
[Aylesbury] Latin School which he never regretted.

It was the mixture there of all classes. On those benches

gentlemen's sons sat side by side with plebeians, and no

harm, but only good, seemed to come from the inter

course. The neighbouring gentry, most of whom had

begun their education there, were drawn into closer and

kindlier union with their neighbours and dependants,

from the fact of having been their associates in the days
of their boyhood. Many a time afterward when Eric,

as he passed down the streets, interchanged friendly

greetings with some young glazier or tradesman whom

he remembered at school, he felt glad that thus early he

had learnt to despise the accidental and nominal differ

ences which separate man from man."

    When he was eight years old his parents returned from

India and took a house in the Isle of Man, on the shores of

Castleton Bay. Here for three years, till their return to
India, he and his brother Henry, for whom he had a very

strong affection, lived with their parents, and attended

King William's College, which was close to their home.
CHILDHOOD AND REMINISCENCES 5

With his father, a very reticent and somewhat austere

man, of the strictest evangelical opinions, he appears,

partly owing to absence during the years of boyhood,
never to have been on really intimate terms. For the

memory of his mother, a saintly woman, whose maiden

name was Caroline Turner, he cherished the deepest
love and reverence. In 1890, when he was nearly sixty
                                             --
yea"rsFirosldt,  he thus   wrote of her   :
                 among    the influences     which
                                                    have formed my
life, I must mention the character of a mother who has

been dead for nearly thirty years, but of whom my remi
niscences are as vivid and as tender as if she had passed

Iaway but yesterday. I have never spoken of her, though

   dedicated one early book to her dear memory. She

has had no memorial in the world ; she passed her life

in the deep valley of poverty, obscurity, and trial ; but

she has left to her only surviving son the recollections

Iof a saint. I may say of her with truth that she was

canonised by all who looked on her, and echo with all

my heart the words of the Poet Laureate : --

                                                        " Happy he
                 With such a mother! faith in womankind

                 Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high
                 Comes easy to him."

   In another passage he says : --
   " My mother's habit was, every day, immediately after

breakfast, to withdraw for an hour to her own room,

and to spend that hour in reading the Bible, in medi
tation, and in prayer. From that hour, as from a pure
fountain, she drew the strength and sweetness which
enabled her to fulfil all her duties, and to remain un

ruffled by all the worries and pettinesses which are so
often the intolerable trial of narrow neighbourhoods.
6 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

As I think of her life, and of all it had to bear, I see the

absolute triumph of Christian grace in the lovely ideal

of a Christian lady. I never saw her temper disturbed ;
I never heard her speak one word of anger, or of cal
umny, or of idle gossip. I never observed in her any

sign of a single sentiment unbecoming to a soul which

had drunk of the river of the water of life, and which

had fed upon manna in the barren wilderness."

He preserved her last letter in an envelope, on the

back of which he wrote, "Sacred to the most dear

memory of the best of mothers. The enclosed was
the last letter she ever wrote -- Farewell, darling

mother, till the Resurrection morning, when God shall
            Him them that sleep
bring with  written to one of his    in Jesus."        a  letter
                                     Harrow pupils,
  A letter

which influenced     th"eamboonyg's   whole life, and  which     he
carefully preserved                  his most sacred   ' arcana  '"

for more than thirty years, may be inserted here.

" My dear            : My esteem and regard for you, ever
since I knew you, have been so sincere, and I have so

firm a belief in the manliness and Christian principle

which mark your character, that I feel sure you will
allow me the privilege of a friend and master, if I speak

to you about one very sacred and solemn duty -- your

bearing at home. I should never think of intruding
into so delicate a matter, if one who loves you had not

asked me affectionately to let you know that sometimes

by a little impatience about advice you are led to use

expressions which wound and cause pain to those whom

I know that you would wish in your inmost heart to

shelter from the least breath of sorrow at any cost of
your own personal suffering. The chief duty of a
Christian lies, my dear boy, in the quiet, unseen life of
CHILDHOOD AND REMINISCENCES 7

his own home, and if he does not learn there to practise
                     of unselfishness -- that highest type of
that noble   virtue  consists in daily and hourly consider-
            which
charity --

ateness for the feelings of others, he will have lost one

of the strongest resources and one of the most healing

memories for all his future life.

   " As life goes on you will realise with more and more
intensity the fact that true, pure, devoted friendship --
and still more that genuine love -- is a thing which we

very, very seldom obtain in life. As we grow older we

more and more walk alone, and our path is marked by

the graves of those who were more to us than others can

ever be. It is then, I think, that we yearn most strongly

for the sacred affection of mother or sister or kinsman

whom we have lost. It is now eight years since my

own mother died. She was, if ever there was, a saint of

God. Her love to me was more than almost any love

can ever be, and I loved her with all my heart. And
yet one morning, as I sat in school, a letter brought me

the intelligence that the previous night she had gone

to bed in perfect health and happiness, and yet before

morning God had called her to Himself. When this

news was brought to me, my first thought was how much

kinder, how much more loving I might have been ;

how in a thousand ways, by word and deed, which

would have cost me nothing and which would have

caused a thrill of happiness, I might have brightened

I /and beautified her earthly life. It was a bitter thought

that, much as I loved her, had not always been as kind
to her as might have been, and I looked back with joy
only to those occasions when I had not treated her love

for me as a matter of course, but had shown by acts of

kindness and gentleness how infinitely I valued her

blessing and her prayers. Little faults of impatience,
8 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

little haughtinesses in the expression of opinion and the

rejection of advice, then seemed to me almost like crimes,

and I longed, too late, for the opportunity which could
never more return. That you, my dear
                                        , may be

spared from all such painful retrospects, that you may

live worthily of your high Christian calling, and that

these few words of a sincere friend may not offend you

but rather help to save you from vain regrets is the

earnest hope of, yours affectionately,

                            "Frederic W. Farrar."

   And two letters referring to his parents in India will
not perhaps be out of place.

                                              "Bombay, November 1, 1875.

" Reverend and dear Sir : I have met lately with

several Europeans            who have   read your very valuable
work, the ' Life of                     regret very much that its
                            Christ.' I

price places it quite beyond the reach of the English

spe" aAklilnogwnmateivteos   of India, Christian and non-Christian.
                            suggest that if a cheap edition were pub

lished, there would be a considerable demand for it in

this country, and your object in writing the book would,
as far as India is concerned, be to a certain extent

realised.

   "Your venerable father, the Rev. C. P. Farrar, was

the means of my conversion, he baptized me in Nasik in
1845. The labours of both Mr. and the 1st Mrs. Farrar
are still remembered by many Hindu people at Nasik

and its vicinity, and many would have rejoiced at their

return to India. Why should not you visit the land of

your birth and benefit the people of it by your vast
learning. 'Come over and help us,' Acts xvi. 10.
      CHILDHOOD AND REMINISCENCES 9

   " Will you kindly give my best regards to your father,

and accept the same yourself.

       " I am, Rev. and dear Sir,

                    " Yours faithfully,
                            " Appaji Bapuji, C. M. Society."

" Dear Sir :  " September 14.

  " I had enjoyed in India, so far as an unlearned man

may enjoy, your Hulsean Lectures, and you will not
wonder at my especial interest in the works and career

of Dr. Frederic Farrar when I tell you that from 1843
to 1 846 I was constantly hearing of their son Frederic's

promise from your father and mother, whom in those

years I knew so well at Nasik in India. I often fancy

that those who leave us are watching us with intense

interest, and as I read your work yesterday evening, I

thought to myself, if the indications of genius in her
boy gave your sainted mother such pleasure, what joy
to find the great truths for which she laboured and lived

thus put before the world by yourself.

  I" I never met a lady in India whose work in every re

spect honoured as much as Mrs. Farrar's. . . .

                      I" remain, dear Sir,

                                     "Yours faithfully,

                                                       "H. D."
            CHAPTER II

            THE SCHOOLBOY

At King William's College Frederic Farrar remained

for eight years, for the first three years as a day boy, but
when his parents returned to India, after their furlough,

he and his brother were boarded in the house of the

head-master, the Rev. Dr. Dixon.

The long vacations he spent with his aunts at Ayles

bury, for the Easter holidays he was sometimes invited

to the beautiful home of Bishop Short of Sodor and

Man, who delighted to encourage his young guest in

his passion for outdoor excursions and the study of

natural history.                " It was very delightful               for

   Of these visits he writes :

us boys to be guests of the bishop at that charming

country palace, and to wander through the supremely

lovely mountain glen, watered by a crystal streamlet,

which formed part of its grounds, -- to say nothing of
the unwonted luxuries which the visit afforded us. It was

also pleasant to accompany the bishop, ' haud passibus

acquis,' as with his long, thin, gaitered legs he strode

about the mountains and seashores in the neighbourhood

of his home. There was, however, a drop of myrrh in
the cup of our enjoyment. The bishop was- a double-
first-class man and an ardent enthusiast in matters of

education.     He would amuse   lohnimg s--elfatbaynyexraamteinainllg   us
wretched    schoolboys all day                                         the

morning. At last Mrs. Short, a charming lady, thinking

            10
                     THE SCHOOLBOY                                 n

that we looked ' depressed and emaciated,' interfered

on our behalf, and robbed the bishop of the luxury of

Iga"uginrgemoeumr bveerrythsahtalltohwe  attainments.  entered     his study
I saw on
                                         first time I
ancestor,
           the  chimneypiece a            picture of    my celebrated
           the  Marian martyr                          Bishop of St.
                                         -- Farrar,

David's, who was burnt alive at Carmarthen in 1555.
The bishop told me that he was thinking of writing a

sketch of his predecessors in the ancient see of Sodor

and Man, and that Bishop Farrar was one of them. I

have since learnt that this was a mistake. Bishop Farrar

was one of Archbishop Cranmer's chaplains, and was

appointed Bishop of St. David's by Edward VI. There

is not only no trace of his having set foot in the Isle of

Man, but no trace of his having been appointed there.

Perhaps the error arose from his sometimes signing
          R
himself        Men., which was           Daanviadb'bs.r'ev"iation  for Mene-
viensis,  or  ' of the see of St.

That those were happy years may be gathered from

the fact that under a coloured print of his old school

he has written the lines from Coleridge.

                Ah ! dear delights, that o'er my Soul

                   On Memory's wing like shadows fly !
                Ah ! flowers that Joy from Eden stole,

                   While Innocence stood laughing by.

Rough as was the school, in some respects, and poor

as was the teaching, he encountered there many of the

influences that fundamentally moulded his character.
First among these must be named the rugged and

beautiful scenery of the island, unspoiled as yet by

"trippers," where the mail came but once a week in

winter,   and  the   people generally spoke Manx.                  made
               " he  thus describes the first impressions
   In "  Eric
it,12 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR
                 a
upon him by his new home : " Not twenty yards below
the garden, in front of the house, lay Elian [Castleton]
Bay, at that moment rippling with golden laughter in
the fresh breeze of sunrise. On either side of the bay
was a bold headland, the one stretching out in a series
of broken crags, the other terminating in a huge mass
of rock, called, from its shape, The Stack. To the right
lay the town, with its gray old castle and the mountain
stream running through it into the sea ; to the left, high
above the beach, rose the crumbling fragment of a
picturesque fort, behind which towered the lofty build
ings of Roslyn School. Eric learnt the whole land
scape by heart, and thought himself a most happy boy
to come to such a place. He fancied that he should

never be tired of looking at the sea, and could not take
his eyes off the great buoy that rolled about in the centre
of the bay, and flashed in the sunlight at every move."

   Sojourning in this beautiful island my father acquired
that abiding love of natural scenery, which, to the end
of his life, remained the pure source of his keenest
pleasures. He never failed to spend his annual holiday
by the seaside, and to the last, the year held for him no
happier hours than those he spent pacing the yellow
sands, with his children at his side, drinking in the sea
breezes, and holding his Panama hat in his hand, to let

them gently ruffle his fine hair, to blow, as he expressed
    the cobwebs from his brain.

    Such games as were played in his school days
were spontaneous, and athletics had not attained the
compulsory, and perhaps excessive organisation with
which we are now familiar, and which absorbs the whole

energies of boys out of school hours, leaving them but
little leisure or inclination for country rambles. He
was never cricketer, but was fond of fives and of foot
          THE SCHOOLBOY                                    13

ball, which he continued to play as a Harrow master.
He was, and remained till late in life, a fine swimmer,
and as a boy loved to swim " far into the bay, even as

far   as  the huge, tumbling red buoy that   spent  'its"  restless
life  in  ' ever climbing with the climbing  wave     ;     but he

was a tireless and athletic walker, and his chief delight

was in long rambles and climbs among the mountains

and along the coast scenery for which the Isle of Man

is famous, and here, while yet a boy, God spoke to him

in the voices of the mountain and the sea, and loving

nature, he learnt to love nature's God.

His voracious appetite for books was perhaps an

innate quality, but the circumstances of his school

days did much, by their very limitations, to develop
his literary taste. To the end of his life he loved the

occasional relaxation of a good novel, but the boon, or,

shall we say the blight, of cheap literature had not yet

descended upon the land, and the schoolboy of those

days was at least saved, in spite of himself, from be

coming the debauchee of shoddy fiction. Even such

standard novels as those of Scott, Fenimore Cooper,

and Captain Marryat, which, fortunately, were almost

the only romances then available, circulated almost by

stealth. They were eagerly devoured, and he relates

how the boys used to lie awake at night hotly discussing
their favourite characters in these novels. The teaching

of the school was poor in many respects, poor, especially,

as regards the niceties of classical scholarship, but one

wise custom prevailed for which in after years he was

always deeply thankful. This was the practice of set

ting passages of English poetry to be learnt by heart.

In the course of these exercises he committed to memory

long passages of Byron, Goldsmith, Moore, Scott, Shelley,

Wordsworth, and other poets. A memory naturally reten
14 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

tive was thus developed to a phenomenal degree, and the

foundation was laid of a knowledge of English poetry,
that for range and accuracy has probably never been
equalled except, it may be, by Lord Macaulay. In his

Marlborough days                it was a tradition in  "thetheCommamsotenr
Room that it was               impossible to " stump

with any known passage from the English poets. In

respect of prose, mere dearth of books to stay his vora

cious appetite drove him back upon his school prizes ;
thus, before he was sixteen he had read such works as
Hooker's " Ecclesiastical Polity," Prideaux's " Connec

tion between the Old and New Testaments," and Cole
ridge's " Aids to Reflection," solid fare, which the modern

s"cshtooodlbgoyy."  would, it  is to be   feared, be apt to regard    as
                        Some   stress is   due to the fact that     the

absence of organised school games conferred an immu

nity from that atmosphere of athletic "shop" which is

to the modern public-school boy as the breath of his
nostrils. The young cynic of to-day derides the boys
of Eric and St. Winifred's, who are represented as

eagerly discussing out of school the characters of Ho

meric heroes ; but the fact remains that the more intel

ligent boys of that epoch, being precluded from such

lofty themes as cricket averages, or the prospects of
                v. Yorks,  did find interest in discussing the
"Susrhroepy  "   of their
                           school classics, regarded as human

literature.

Among the influences of his school days, which de

cisively        moulded    his character, must be mentioned a
sermon          which he
                           heard preached from the text, " Let

them be as the grass growing upon the housetops, which

withereth before it groweth up ; wherewith the mower
filleth not his hand, nor he that bindeth sheaves his

bosom." This image of barren grass upon the house
              THE SCHOOLBOY                                15

top, presented in vivid language, as the symbol of an

idle and useless life, powerfully stimulated his imagi

nation, and caused him to register a vow that, God help

ing him, that reproach should never be his. This text

and its lesson are recorded in connection with the char

acter of Daubeny in "St. Winifred's." Few definite

incidents of his life at King William's College have been

preserved, though his  memories of   tohfat" sEcrhicoo"l   have con
tributed much to the   local colour
                                                           and " St.

Winifred's." One of the few recorded refers to the fire,

in 1844, by which the school buildings were                adlaersmtr.oye"d.I
Fred   Farrar was one of the
shall  never forget," he says,  f"irwstaktoinggiveupthaet   night with
the suffocating smell of smoke, and, when I opened the

Idoor at one end of the long dormitories, being met by
the bursting flames.   roused my brother, and we ran

together from bed to bed, waking up the boys. Then

came the fearful suspense, while we all stood huddled

together in a dark passage, waiting for the key to be

found for the only safe door of exit ; and the joy when

it was at length opened, and we rushed pell-mell out

of doors, barefooted, and with scarcely anything on but

our nightshirts. It was a December night, and the

cold was intense ; but the wonderful sight of the flames

issuing from  the windows   made me    forget  seigvhetryItheivnegr
              the grandest   and most  awful
else. It was
witnessed. Fortunately my brother and I had friends
to take us in; and afterwards we were placed, along

with other boys, in a house, until the college was re

built, and trusted entirely by ourselves, without a master
being placed in charge." The boys' scanty wardrobes

were destroyed by this fire, and they had to borrow

clothes from friends.   Among     h"isFos'cch'soleolfYelalornwss,"waenred
the Rev. T. R. Brown,  author of
16 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Professor E. Spencer Beesly, who was for a year his

study-mate, and to whom I am indebted for the follow

ing contribution.

                     Professor Beesly s Narrative

   When I went to King William's College after the sum
mer vacation of 1 846, Farrar and I were both fifteen, he

being a few months my junior. He had been there for

several years, and had just reached the highest form. I

was placed in the same form, and we shared the same

study. We at once became great friends. I had been

taught entirely by my father, and had read, in a loose,
slovenly way, a great deal more Latin and Greek than
Farrar had ; but he was the more accurate scholar, and
he always beat me in examinations. Our study was a
tiny room high up in the tower, just big enough to hold
our two chairs, a table, and a wooden coal box of cu
bical shape with a cover, which furnished a third seat.

The table must have been a very small one, for I re

member that our two writing-desks, when opened, com
pletely covered it. The room was lofty, relatively to its
other dimensions, and in winter very cold. Our coal
box was filled up once a week, and its capacity was not
great, for one of us used to carry it up to the study.
We could, therefore, not afford to have even the smallest
fire, except in the evening ; and very cold we often were
as we sat at our work. Everything was on the same
Spartan scale. For breakfast and tea we had thick
pieces of buttered bread : for dinner one very scanty
helping of meat, with boiled rice or swedes instead of
bread or potatoes. Bread was very dear that winter,
and the potato crop had perished. On Sundays there
was pudding, and on Thursdays treacle roll; on other
days no second course. My recollection of those din
           THE SCHOOLBOY                17

ners is vivid. I used to rise from them almost as hun
gry as when I sat down. Silence was strictly enforced.
If a boy was observed whispering to his neighbour he

was " stood out," and lost the remainder of his meal.

  I do not know that we had any claim to a more

liberal dietary. The charge for our board and educa

tion was very low, and I dare say the margin of profit
was small enough. I do not remember that there was
any illness while I was there. The situation was a very

healthy one on the seashore, and the schoolrooms and

dormitories were airy and not overcrowded. There

were four boarding-houses. Ours occupied a wing of

the college, and consisted, I think, of about forty boys.

   The classical teaching was poor, the mathematical --

a subject   in which     my education   had been entirely
neglected             believe, better.  ^Eschylus, Demos
           -- was, I

thenes, Virgil, and Tacitus were the classical subjects
that year in our form. Our Greek and Latin composi
tion did not go beyond Kerchever Arnold's books. We

were made to write English verse sometimes, in my

opinion a most useful and humanising exercise for
schoolboys. Farrar shone at this; and I, and others,

caught some of his enthusiasm for poetry. But we

were almost entirely without books, and we had access

to no library. A few well-thumbed novels, liable to con
fiscation, circulated surreptitiously. We had no news

papers, and knew nothing of what was going on in the

world. In the winter there was postal communication

with England only twice a week.
   The religious teaching, of which we had a good deal,

was of the narrowest evangelical type. It was for that
reason that Farrar and I and many other boys had been

sent there. But none of the masters had any religious

influence that I know of. The moral tone, at the
18 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

beginning of my time, was neither better nor worse than

in most schools ; but in the course of the year it was

much injured by some new arrivals. Perhaps this

deterioration was confined to our house ; I remember

little or nothing about the others. Farrar's influence

was always exercised on the side of all that was honour
able, high-minded, humane, and refined. He was already

as  "aprbeoaychewrhatof  he was afterwards as  a schoolmaster,
a                         righteousness," and  not a preacher

only, but a shining example and a support to all who

were well inclined. Having never left my home till I
went to King William's College, I was quite unprepared

for the difficulties, dangers, and temptations of school-

Ilife, and I had great reason to be thankful that was

from the first thrown into close intimacy with so valu

able a friend.

   In a well-organised school, where his remarkable

ability and untiring industry would have procured for

him monitorial authority, Farrar, who had plenty of

pluck, would have had the means of repressing and

punishing evil-doers. But there was no such organisa

tion at King William's College. The law of the strong

est prevailed, and there were many older and stronger

than Farrar. But his approbation and friendship were

valued by the better sort, and many, no doubt, were

kept straight by unwillingness to lose his esteem.

    Games were not cultivated in any systematic way.

Cricket was as primitive and unconventional as upon a

village green. There was no regular eleven. Foot

ball was pursued with vigour, but with no particular

rules. I do not remember that Farrar played cricket,

but he was fond of foot-ball and fives.

  I left King William's College at midsummer 1847.

Farrar had to return there after the vacation. He wrote
THE SCHOOLBOY  19

to me very despondently. The examination at mid

summer had placed him at the head of the school.
There were no more honours for him to gain. He had

learnt all that any one there could teach him. It was

a dreary outlook for an ardent young fellow conscious
of his own ability and thirsting for better instruction.
But before the end of the year his prospects brightened.
His parents returned from India. His father became
the incumbent of a parish in the north of London, and
Farrar, living at home, pursued his studies at King's

College. I was with a private tutor at Brixton, so we

saw one another from time to time. During 1850-1853,

while he was at Cambridge and I at Oxford, we did not

meet, but we kept up a correspondence. In 1854 we

were again thrown together as assistant masters at

Marlborough.

  II am sorry that have not been able to paint my old

school in more favourable colours. My friendship with

Farrar is the only pleasant recollection that I have of
it. I believe it is now an excellent school."

  IAs muse upon these years, extremely uneventful,

yet of interest in virtue of their formative influence upon
the character of one who was destined to turn many to

righteousness, I conjure up the picture of a happy and

healthy schoolboy, of a bright and open countenance,

with eager, well-opened eyes, clear-cut features, and fine

waving hair ; gay and playful, yet tremendously in
earnest ; joining heartily in games, fond of bathing and

swimming, but fondest of long rambles and scrambles
along the cliffs or over the mountains, with his ear at
tuned to the voice of nature ; remarkably well read for

a schoolboy, and with his memory stored with treasures
gathered from the best English poets ; a good scholar,
20 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

in spite of the deficiencies of his training, who, at the

age of sixteen, stood at the head of his school, and had

won all the prizes it had to offer, and who had laid

already the foundation of that habit of unflinching, un

remitting industry which was one of the chief secrets of

his success in life ; a boy whose moral influence was

always strenuously exerted on the side of all that is

manly and honest ;    beyond all, a boy   of stainless   and
virginal purity, who  took for his motto   the text "   keep

innocency and do the thing that is right, for that shall

bring a man peace at the last."
CHAPTER III

THE STUDENT

Frederic Farrar was entered as a student at King's

College toward the end of 1847. His father, who had
finally left India, had obtained       cthurreaecyyeinarsch"aFrgreed o"f
St. James, Clerkenwell, and so    the
                                  for

lived at home and enjoyed the precious privilege of

daily intercourse with his saintly mother.

These were indeed strenuous years, of intense and in

cessant application, during which he appears to have

taken for his model the youthful Milton.

When I was yet a child no childish play
To me was pleasing, all my life was spent

Serious to learn and know, and thence to do
What might be public good ; myself I thought
Born to that end, born to promote all truth,

All righteous things ; therefore, above my years,
The law of God I read, and found it sweet,
Made it my whole delight --

   These lines from " Paradise Regained " are inscribed
under a portrait of Milton as a boy, which for years
hung in my father's dressing-room. The influence of
Milton on his character, his thoughts, and his style was
one of the determining factors of his life, and was exer
cised especially in his King's College days. His old
College Reports are still preserved and testify to his

diligence and progress at this period.
22 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                                                     " King's College, 1848.

Divinity           Frederic William Farrar                         satis
Classics
          .... First prizeman of his year. Most
                                 factory. -- Edward H. Plumptre.

          .... Very satisfactory.
English Literature  Highly satisfactory, prizeman of his year. --
                    F. D. Maurice.

....Divinity        1849

English Literature                                   (as usual). -- R. W.
                                                        Stephen's prizeman.
                    JAfast                                                    elf.

                    Very                                                       --
                    satisfactory
                     satisfactory,

                    F. D. Maurice."

In addition to a classical and theological scholarship

at King's College, he gained a London University

scholarship, and thus relieved his parents from the

burden of any expense for his education. He was

placed first in the examinations both for matriculation
and for honours, and graduated B.A., London, in 1852.
In 1858 he was appointed an Honorary Fellow of
King's College. One of his chief pleasures was to go

about on Sundays with his brother Henry to hear
celebrated preachers. In this manner he heard Bishop

Wilberforce, Canon Melville, Canon Dale, Dean Close,

and all the foremost preachers of that day. At this

time he was also a regular Sunday School teacher.
Of his teachers, those to whom he owed most were

the great F. D. Maurice, and Dr. Plumptre, afterwards

Dean of Wells, with whom he maintained a lifelong

friendship, and of whom he says, " I count his friendship

among     the conspicuous blessings, and his                        teachings
among
          Kthneowfonrm,"ahtievesayinsf,lu"enDceeasn  of my life."   In " Men
I have                                                Plumptre of
                                                                   Wells was
a lifelong friend to me, since the days when I was a
          THE STUDENT                                                        23

boy at King's College. He weekly looked over my

papers in answer to questions on his Lectures, and he

gave me excellent advice and useful encouragement,

together with the blessing of his unfailing regard and

kindness. I was very diffident about myself, and I

might almost say of Dean Plumptre, as Jeremy Bentham
said of Lord Lansdowne, ' He raised me from the bot
                                                                             I
tomless   psiotmoefthihnugm' i--liathioonwe; vehre   first taught  me  that
could be                                            small."

The influence of Maurice upon his life may be

described in his own words.

  " I first learnt to know, to honour, and to love F. D.
Maurice when, as a boy of sixteen, I went to King's
College, London. He was then Professor of History
and Literature, and lectured to us twice a week. We

were supposed to take notes of his lectures, and were

examined on the subjects of them at the end of the

term. I never learnt shorthand ; but the desire to

profit by the lecture system, which was the main method
of teaching at King's College, made me so far a ' tachy-

graph ' that I could with ease take down everything

that was essential in the lectures of Professor Brewer,

Professor Maurice, and Dr. Jelf. Maurice's lectures
were ' caviare to the general.' Many of the ' stu

dents,' as we were called, cared nothing for them, and

were much more impressed by the lectures of his assist
ant, which were full of facts. But those of us who had

any sense of reverence, or any insight into genius and

character, felt that we were in the presence of a great

and noble man, and were proud to be under his instruc

tion. His lectures were meant to deal rather with the

meaning and philosophy of history than with those

details which he rightly supposed we could derive from

any ordinary hand-book. Certainly his lectures were a
24 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

ииииииstrong intellectual stimulus to those of us who were at

all capable of rightly apprehending them.

             и

   " The classes were attended by some ninety or a hun
dred students, whom it was the custom of the place to
regard and treat as ' University Men,' though so many
of us were but boys. Every one was addressed as ' Mr' ;
and as we were all living at our respective homes, only
those of us who formed friendships among ourselves

knew anything about each other. A certain number

were of course the merest Philistines, who neither

understood the lectures nor cared for them in the slight

est degree ; and some, of yet coarser grain, had not the
ordinary manners to respect the lecturer or their fellow-
students. These youths often behaved execrably.
Maurice did not know most of them even by name, as
he only saw them in the lecture room ; and as none of

the ordinary public-school discipline existed, and any
punishment short of expulsion was unknown, he had
no means of controlling them. That power of disci
pline, which many seem to possess as a natural gift,
was not his ; and as we ' students ' were not a homo

geneous body living under one roof, but a conglomer
ation of separate atoms without a particle of authority
over each other, we could not coerce boors into a better

demeanour. At last, however, one man was in some

way identified, and Dr. Jelf brought him into the lecture

room and made him apologize. Even this was not

effectual. On one occasion things came to a climax.

Some brainless youth had concealed himself under the
platform on which the seats rose tier after tier, and as

the lecture proceeded, he emphasised its periods, unseen,

by tapping with a stick on the floor, giving very pro

nounced raps when there was any sentence peculiarly
                 THE STUDENT                                    25

solemn and eloquent. This was too much for our

equanimity. I never knew the man's name, but I joined

in a memorial of sympathy to Maurice, in which we
expressed our disgust at such ill-bred barbarism, and

offered our best services to put an end to it thereafter.

From this time the disorder ceased.

I" At that time was intensely interested in the learning

and historic research of the four portly volumes of Elliot's
I' Horae Apocalypticae,' of which, boy as I was, I had made
a complete analysis.               asked Maurice what he thought

of and remember the sort of cold shock felt when
a it,                                              '
he told me that he regarded the entire system of inter
    I I it I                                         aI
pretation as utterly baseless. It was some years before
                           ;a
further study brought home to me his conviction, that,
                      I
though the book of Revelation might, like those of all

inspired writers, have 'springing and germinal develop

ииииииments,' was primarily 'the thundering reverberation

of mighty spirit struck by the plectrum of the Nero-

nian persecution.
           и

   " When was master at Harrow, Professor Maurice

was more than once my guest, and he was most de
lightful one. He kindly became godfather to
son -- the Rev. Eric Maurice Farrar -- who                  my second
                                                             bears his

name.  was seriously taken to task, and almost had              a

quarrel with certain excellent, but narrow-minded, per

sons, for inviting him to address the members of the in

stitute at Harrow but stuck to my point, and we were
                                                                'The
rewarded    by   Bhoeoakrisn.g' "  his  beautiful  lecture  on
Friendship   of

F. D. Maurice was regarded by many as somewhat
                                                   a

transcendental philosopher,             and was    humorously  charac
terised by Matthew Arnold                          who spent   his life
                                        as one "
26 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

in beating about   t"he    bush with deep emotion, but never
starting the hare       ;  but my father always felt that he

owed a deep debt to his teaching, and in particular it

was from his books that he learnt the germ of those con

victions to which  he gave  utterance  in his sermons  on
" Eternal Hope."

Dr. Hayman, of Rugby, who was my father's private

tutor at King's College, thus wrote of him at a later

date: "A more interesting pupil I certainly never have

...had, nor one more remarkable for rapid acquisition,
ready insight, and careful attention.  I have found

matured in the man the same purity and unselfish gen

tleness which were conspicuous in the boy, and I have

noticed in his works a power of clothing the repulsive

skeleton of a dry subject, and illuminating the dead letter

of the past with a sympathetic light and insight of his

own."
To Sir Edwin Arnold I am indebted for the following

generous and beautiful appreciation of my father as he

appeared in those days to a friend and fellow-student : --

       AT KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON

  I" have been honoured by a request from the Editor of
this Biography that I should furnish him with some brief
notes of what I recollect about Dean Farrar, when he

was a fellow-student of mine  at King's College, London.
   " There is more than one
                              pen, among our contempo

raries at that time, which could better discharge this

task ; but none that would undertake it with livelier and
                 -- nay, I
more admiring               must frankly say, with    more
                 memories   than the present writer.
affectionate --                                         My

impressions of the Dean, then for the first time formed,

were from the beginning instinctively of a friendly
                        THE STUDENT             2;

character, so impossible was it not to be interested and

attracted by the tall, quiet, soft-mannered scholar, with

the serious eyes and the gentle smile, who did all his

class work with such dutiful precision, and was never

at fault when questioned by the classical master,

whether it was about a tough passage in Tacitus, a

disputed line in a Greek Chorus, or the JEohc Aorist,

the   ' enclitic de,'  or the geography   of St. Paul's voyages.
   "  Our classical     lecturer was the  Rev. Mr. Browne, an

elegant and tasteful scholar, who was particularly

strong in Greek iambics, and loved the exactness and

the ardour of his rural pupil. For like myself, Farrar

in those days had lived more in the country than the

town ; and, like myself also, was going through three

or four terms at King's College before proceeding to

the University. Sometimes our Latin class would be

taken by Frederick Denison Maurice, who had also,

as would be expected, a deep appreciation of the value

of classical learning, and a capacity to measure the

stately grace and finished skill of the great authors of

tAthotahtseaneyms iunanencndotutchRleolrymg--yem. naonYwewteanntdthesotmhpeeenrwshowantiathlstarptahpneegaerealyxnqc--ueisnitooetf

lev"itIy  of Catullus,  and the plain speaking  of Juvenal.
          call to mind  with half amused, half  painful retro

spect an afternoon in the College Hall, when Maurice

was reading with us that well-known Ode of Horace,

beginning with 'Quis multa gracilis te puer in rosa.'
He felt no doubt better than we, the delicate charm with

which the verses were embroidered and jewelled by

phrases too subtle for translation ; but the contrast be

tween the solemn, ascetic countenance of the lecturer,

the airy daring of the poet, and the deplorable levity of
his Latin lady associates proved too much for the good
28 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

behaviour of the class. The students broke into a dis

respectful clamour, offering rude comments, and auda

cious new readings, to their hypersensitive teacher, who

became so indignant at such disrespect that he refused

to continue his lecture.

  "To teach such ill-mannered pupils for a nature as

refined and shy as that of Maurice was like trying to

shape logs of timber with a penknife. I recall the

trivial incident only to mention how much Farrar im

pressed me at that moment by the youthful gravity with

which he rebuked the noisiest of those ungrateful young

rebels, and the scholarly shame I could see him experi

encing at the slight put upon the famous author and

the gifted tutor who were being so unworthily treated.

The words of agreement which passed between us on

that occasion served as an introduction, and from them

arose a friendship which has been for me one of my

Imost prized possessions, and which never changed, and
never grew  colder  on either side -- for I know      may
venture to  say as  much -- from that afternoon     when

Farrar's gentle indignation helped to bring the hall

to its senses, until the day when my class-fellow died,

a pillar and ornament of the Church, and the most

brilliant name upon the long and renowned line of the

Deans of    Canterbury.   all are  aware,  between  Farrar and
   " There   grew up, as

Maurice a fast friendship, which was continued until

the death of that earnest and conscientious man. Far

rar was not likely to make many boyish alliances with
the students who flocked at that time to King's College.

They were naturally no very distinguished samples of

the rising generation ; and were attracted in larger

numbers to the practical departments of the institution

than to its classical and literary side. Some half a
                         THE STUDENT                  29

dozen, however, in each of the classes rapidly separated

themselves, as is the wont, from the rank and file ; and

equally as is also the custom, tutors and professors gave

themselves almost exclusively to those among us who
had evidently come to learn. We formed, therefore, a

favoured little clique, of which Farrar was certainly the

best and brightest specimen, while of the others I can

call up very few individuals. Mr. Edward Dicey, C.B.,

was one of them, and another who gave promise of be

ing a great legal luminary was Mr. Clement Tudway

Swanston, about whom I only know that he afterwards

married the daughter of a well-known judge, and be

came lost to literature in the Nirvana of the courts.

But, already some of us were bent upon climbing one

side or the other of Parnassus. We started a monthly

serial for ourselves, The Kings College Magazine, and

I think that the very earliest efforts of our respective
muses, as regards Farrar, Dicey, and myself, saw the

light in that now-forgotten periodical. I recollect a

little poem appearing in it from my dear old friend

upon the theme of a Roman triumph, the opening line
                   --
of  which  ran  :
                      "
                         The  golden  Pompa  cometh,

                         Tfce Pompa streams along ;

and, let it be declared, there were some mighty fine lines
in that little piece of work. So were there also in cer
tain other stanzas from his pen, describing scenes in
Elysium, of which my memory supplies me with this
pretty passage picturing the heroes of the ' Iliad ' repos
ing after their warlike toils, and telling how

                         " Achilles and Tydides
                                In happy quiet there

                              Unbind the shadowy helmets
                                   From off their golden hair.
'30 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                                   it,II did not dare then, and much less will venture now,

                                                                           'to set anything of my own by the side of the really ex
                                                                                             'cellent work with which Farrar's taste and learning en
riched our humble serial. He was nevertheless pleased
isto admire a certain piece of mine upon 'The Sacrifice of
    itIphigenia,' and it is a curious recollection, showing
how the early bent remained, that he gained the Chan
             acellor's prize at Cambridge, for English verse, in the

same month in which I won the Newdigate at Oxford.

Throughout these early exercises of his genius, as in al
most everything he wrote or uttered in later years, there
was evidenced that deep-seated love of ornamental epi
thets and richly embellished diction which sciolists,

who could not -- to save their lives -- have penned a

single line to rival attacked as florid,' turgid,' and

 tawdry.' It was his manner, and often splendidly

sustained. Like an architect who prefers to build in
the Corinthian order, rather than the Doric, or Ionic, he
knew well what he was about, and there was nothing
except erudite adornment and masterful command of
musical or beautiful phrase in the literary acanthus
leaves of his capitals, and the flowing volutes of his

rhetoric. It only great sculptor who will have the

courage to make his statue of Pallas Athene out of gold
and ivory, and was from inexhaustible quarries of
memory, and the sure control of a wide scholarship,
that he could thus safely trust himself to gild and to
embroider the melodious march of his periods.

  " A good many prizes and examinations brought our

little band of the classical department into almost con

stant rivalry. In the course of these was my almost

invariable fate to be proxime accessit to Farrar, thus see
ing him carry off, even sometimes only by neck,'
                if
                                       it

                                                                '

                                                              a
                       THE STUDENT                            31

the coveted prize of the race ; but along with the others

I grew accustomed to these inevitable defeats, soon

learning to recognise that nothing could make head

Iagainst his indomitable energies. Oddly enough, beat

him in one or two theological contests ; and my library

shelves have always held and now exhibit a dry and
solemn work entitled ' Pearson upon the Creed,' which

is a liturgical trophy presented by the college and won

in battle against the comrade who was destined to die

the Dean of Canterbury. In subsequent years, when he

was become a popular and famous preacher and a shin

ing light of the Church, I did not allow my unopened
volumes to persuade me even secretly that I ought to
have been made a bishop, but I think I chuckled more

than once over such a grotesque triumph. So little,

however, did these rivalries develop into jealousies that

on one occasion when he had vanquished myself and

six or seven others in a scholarship examination, it was

I who took a cab up to Clerkenwell to communicate the

Ifact to our conqueror. Nobody in truth could grudge

any success to his modest and gentle worth, and be

lieve that I was almost as well pleased in telling him as
he in hearing. , ' The same old story, dear boy, Farrar

firs"t,Tphreorxeimhee  accessit Arnold.'  hours  out of  the  exami
                       was -- only a few
nation-room -- working away as hard as ever for some

new approaching contest, behind a barricade of books,

maps, and dictionaries, an antagonist too indefatigable

to contend with, too amiable and kind-hearted to envy

or underrate. With such a passion and power for work

you would not expect to hear me say that Farrar, at this

time, cared for out-of-doors sports, or any of the pas
times which generally absorb youthful enthusiasm. We

should have tried in vain to get him to take part in our
32 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

occasional boating trips on the river, visits to the theatre,

cricket matches, and the like. Books were enough for
him. In them he found the society which he most loved,

and, moreover, he knew very well that circumstances at

home rendered it necessary to earn his living by them,

and win from scholarship the only competence likely to

fall within his reach. If learning was to be the goddess

of his aspirations, he must, somehow or other, live by

what lay in her hands to bestow ; and in this respect he

was, perhaps, the only one of our set who took so serious
a view of the advantages of early hard work. Yet it is

only when a young man begins to teach himself, that

he has really commenced what can be called education.

   "No doubt the exclusiveness arising from such cease

less industry kept him destitute of that  true joy of early
                                          to his character,
life -- youthful friendships -- and gave

among those who judged it imperfectly, an air of asceti
cism and semi-monkish solitude. Farrar was very impa

tient, as I well remember while at King's College, of

frivolous conversation and the light jests of lazy minds.

I am afraid at that date he looked upon the society, even

of ladies, as a dreadful waste of time, and the gentler sex

itself as, in the ungallant phrase of a great poet, nothing

better than 'a fair defect.' Often since then I have

ventured to rally him, the centre of an adoring wife and

affectionate children, the light of 4. happy household ;

ииииииbut he stayed me once by quoting from Shakespeare

what Benedict says, ' When I swore to die a bachelor, I
did not think that I should live to be married.'

            и

   " But next to books, even in those days, and more than

books in the days which came afterwards, little children

held his heart by the strings. For them he always

evinced a tenderness and interest which were almost
                THE STUDENT  33

feminine ; and it was quite natural, therefore, that after

his brilliant career at Cambridge, he should have given

himself to the life of a schoolmaster. Anybody may
see in his novel of school-life, entitled ' Eric,' how high

his estimate was of what a good teacher ought to be,

and how great and absorbing, but also how serious, a

Iduty, he thought it to superintend the education of
youth.  sent a son of my own to his care when he

was appointed head-master of Marlborough, for the
simple reason that I regarded him as the best of all
                All the clever boys grew deeply at
schoolmasters.

tached to the patient, earnest, and richly endowed man,

whose smile was so sweet when an act of boyish virtue

or a brilliant piece of class-work pleased him, and who

was so gentle in his displeasure, and so just, even in his

anger. The noisy, lazy, and shallow among his pupils

found him, perhaps, pedantic, dry, and exacting, for he

loved hard work too well for himself to understand how

distasteful it seemed to some natures. Boys are stern

and keen judges of their instructors, and those who were

smitten with the modern passion for athletics did not al

ways find Farrar enthusiastic enough about cricket, foot

ball, and the out-of-door portion of an English boy's

upbringing. Yet he was proud of the victories which

Marlborough, under his rule, gained in the fields of exer

cise and youthful competition, though I doubt whether

he ever wielded a bat or handled any implement of

sport, such as gun, fishing-rod, or hunting gear. I do

not know if my son picked up at Marlborough any

thing much more important than to swim well, yet that

was certainly not the fault of his head-master.1 There

    1 Is there not a story in Goethe where the fond parent brings his offspring
to a famous pedagogue to be transformed into a philosopher ? After a
year or so the father comes back to inquire into his son's progress, and
34 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

came a certain evil day when the dahabieh, in which I

was sailing on the Nile, was capsized by a desert whirl

wind, and the fact that I was able to save from drown

ing my wife, my daughter, and all but one of my score
of Arab sailors was largely due to the unclassical por
tion of the training which my son obtained while a pupil
under Dr. Farrar's mild ferule.

   " At the universities we were separated -- Farrar

going to Cambridge -- though he had, I think, no
very great taste for mathematics -- and I to Oxford.

But King's College had made us lasting friends, and
London eventually brought us again into personal and
literary contact. Others, however, will have the happy
task of dwelling upon the steps by which he ascended
the hill of Fame, becoming even more renowned as a
preacher than he had made himself as a teacher, and
building up a record of honour by his books, one of
which -- ' The Life of Christ ' -- would have sufficed to
confer renown adequate to any ambition. The world
has judged that magnificent work by a verdict which no

petty criticisms can affect or alter. I believe that it has

taken and will always occupy an important place on the
shelves of that theological literature which has grown
up from the strong and earnest desire of our age to
reconcile religion and science. The spirit of sincere
belief which mingles in it with an equally sincere devo
tion to truth is to be found also in his ' Eternal Hope,'

and was heard by many a comforted and grateful ear
among the congregations which listened with delight to
his ardent sermons. I, however, must not go beyond

the period of his noble and blameless life of which I am

beholds him gallop up at the head of a string of horses which he has been
training. Whereupon the pedagogue explains that he would have made
him a philosopher if his Creator had not intended him for a horse-breaker.
                  THE STUDENT             35

permitted, in these few pages, to recall some passing

impressions. It was for me, also, an epoch of impor

tance. Oxford lay before me, and those happy years

when, under her wing, work and play went so pleasantly

together, and we passed from boyhood to manhood over

a golden bridge. It was the time when I was reading

Shelley and Keats and Coleridge with a great deal more

assiduity than I could bring to classics and mathematics;

and then the British Museum, close to my London

lodgings, absorbed a great deal of my devotion.

Thus, except in theology, of which I knew nothing,
and Farrar everything, I never once scored against my
amiable antagonist. And if it would have given him

one grain of satisfaction, I think I could have sacrificed
                                          even ' Pearson
to his dear and   "pleasant  comradeship
upon the Creed.'

   The following touching letter from an old King's
College friend and rival is of interest not only for itself
but from the fact that it is utilised in connection with
one of the characters of " Julian Home."

                                          "Canada West, 30th Oct., 1858.

   " My dear Farrar : Our lots in life, since at King's

College we ran a neck and neck race, have been widely
different.

   " To use a more congenial metaphor, you have hitherto
sailed through life with spreading sails and flying colours,
until you are now quietly anchored at Harrow, after
a successful voyage ; while I, on the contrary, have
often been nearly wrecked from mad and careless navi
gation, and my shattered bark, which made a bad start
from Oxford, has turned up like a waif or stray at
36 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

(in Canada West), and is, I hope, soon going to be en
tire"lyToredfirtotepd.the well-worn classical simile, I have come
to Canada to better my fortunes, and as I am now a
wiser, sadder, and better man than I have been, I trust

most devoutly to succeed.

   " I am a candidate for. . . . You know, my dear
Farrar, that I was naturally blest with good abilities.

You know also, doubtless, from some kind friend, that

I sometimes made a bad use of these abilities ; but in

memory of our old King's College friendship -- the most

pleasant by far of my old friendships -- I would beg of

you to forget my errors, and ignore my shortcomings,

ииииииand to speak of me in a few lines of recommendation

as you once knew me when we were kindly rivals in the
arena at King's College.

            и

  I" Though have begun the labour of life later in the

day than yourself and others, and have not borne the

heat, I cannot forget that even those who wrought one

hour likewise received their pay.
   "The old book of my life was so smutched and

begrimed, torn, dog-eared, and scrawled over, that it

was scarcely worth while to turn over a new leaf. I

have, therefore, commenced an entirely new volume,
and trust by God's blessing that when ' Finis ' comes
to be written in some few of the pages will bear re-
                      it,
perusal.
   " At the                    I
home -- in              ocflimnaetaerly--  four
                                                   Iwith
                                                                I
             distance                            thousand miles from
             this cold
                                                 no friends -- no for
tune -- nothing but my head and heart -- feel some

times so melancholy that almost wish to be out of the

world altogether.
   " Forgive me then for writing to you in the spirit
THE STUDENT  37

do now, and pray that my efforts to improve my life,
my talents, and my fortunes may be crowned with suc

cess. I will add no more. Accept my kindest wishes

for your happiness and well being, and believe me, my
dear Farrar, now as ever,

                                           " Your sincere friend,
                                                              " A. B.

   "To the Rev. F. W. Farrar, Harrow."
                     CHAPTER IV

                     THE UNDERGRADUATE

   In October, 1856, my father went up to Trinity Col
lege, Cambridge, as a "sizar," and supported himself

at first entirely on the income derived from his sizar-
ship and King's College scholarship. His father, being

only a curate, was a very poor man, and the son took

a legitimate pride in the fact that from the time he

entered at King's College, and throughout his career

at Cambridge, he paid the expenses of his own educa

tion entirely by scholarships and exhibitions, and, as he

has often told me, his education never cost his father a

penny. So poor was he, and so rigid was his self-denial

and his resolution to spare those struggling parents in

London the least farthing of expenditure on himself,

that during his early undergraduate days at Trinity he

refused himself the indulgence of tea for breakfast and

drank only water.
   At this
             period  the  sizars  dined an hour after  the
general "            and  their   dinner consisted of  the
            Hall,"

dishes which had previously figured on the Fellows'
table. In other ways the sizars were needlessly dif

ferentiated by somewhat invidious distinctions from the

rest of the undergraduates; and my father, judging from

some remarks in "Julian Home," seems to have been
rather sensitive on this head. At the age of twenty-one

he obtained a Trinity scholarship, and his material cir

cumstances were greatly improved. Meanwhile neither

                          38
              THE UNDERGRADUATE                   39

his position as a sizar, nor the austere self-denial which,

partly from necessity, partly from a strong sense of duty,

he practised, at all precluded him from sharing in the
                               tshmeallplascoec.ietyInofp"arAtipcouslatlresh,"e
best  intellectual society of
was   a member of the very

a club formed for the reading and discussion of papers,

to which never more than five or six undergraduate

members at a time belonged, and which has always at

tracted, as it still does, the best intellects of Cambridge.

To this society such men as Archbishop Trench, Dean
Alford, Thompson Master of Trinity, Lord Houghton,

F. D. Maurice, Sterling, Sir Henry Maine, the late

Sir A. Buller, Sir J. Fitzjames Stephen, Lord Tenny

son, Arthur Hallam, F. T. Hort, and many eminent

men now living have been proud to belong.

   One of his fellow-members and a very intimate per

sonal friend was the late Professor J. Clerk Maxwell. I

extract, as illustrating the thoughtful tone prevalent in

his circle of undergraduate friends, the following lines

from a notice of his friend,   contributed by my  father to
              Magazine : --    an undergraduate
the   Temple                                      I became
   "          time when I was
      At one

very despondent about my mathematics. In those days
the rule had only just been altered which insisted that

a classical student should take honours in the Mathe

matical Tripos before he was even permitted to present

himself in the classical. I might have availed myself of

this rule, but did not like to do so. Having been origi

nally intended for Oxford, I had never taken much

trouble with mathematics, and had, moreover, been very

badly and carelessly trained in them. Hence I was

nervous about the Tripos ; and seeing this, Maxwell, who

was a ready verse-writer, felt a genuine sympathy with

me in my disheartenment, and wrote me a little apologue
40 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

called ' The Lark and the Cabbage.' In this he com

pared himself, with his mathematical studies, to the cab
bage ; and me, with my supposed poetic aspirations, to

the lark, the upshot being that I had better not

attempt the Mathematical Tripos, but reserve myself

for classics. I replied in a similar strain of nonsense,
ending with --

                          " It is a lark to be a lark,
                                   'Tis green to be a cabbage.

   " Sometimes, however, he wrote more serious verses ;

and when I left Cambridge he was one of the half-dozen

friends who entered their thoughts for me in a little
manuscript book. What he wrote was striking and

noble -- far more so, I should imagine, than has often
been written by one undergraduate for another. It was
as "fo' lHloewsth:a--t would enjoy life and act with freedom must

have the work of the day continually before his eyes.
Not yesterday's work, lest he fall into despair ; not to
morrow's, lest he become a visionary ; not that which
ends with the day, which is a worldly work; nor yet
that only which remains to eternity, for by it he cannot
shape his actions.

   " ' Happy is the man who can recognize in the work of
to-day a connected portion of the work of life, and an
embodiment of the work of eternity. The foundations
of his confidence are unchangeable, for he has been
made a partaker of Infinity. He strenuously works out
his daily enterprises, because the present is given him
for a possession. Thus ought man to be an impersona
tion of the divine process of nature, and to show forth
the union of the infinite with the finite ; not slighting
his temporal existence, remembering that in it only is
    THE UNDERGRADUATE                                                                    41

  individual action possible, nor yet shutting out from his

  view that which is eternal, knowing that time is a mys

  teetreyrnawl hticruhthmeannligchatnennotit.'e"ndure to contemplate until                    IV Ф ' -
                                                                                              ^ /-Б,, * ╗'?
     In those days dinner was celebrated at what seems to                                     ,.,
                                                                                                              ,

  us the early hour of four o'clock in the afternoon, an

  arrangement which gave long morning for work and,
                                          is                 a
                                              a
                                                                                      ;
  for reading men of that time, when athletics were less

  highly organised than now the case, long evening,
     two hours' " constitutional " before Hall being the
a
  usual form of exercise.
 I
  About nine o'clock the undergraduate was quite ready

  for tea and the relaxation of a chat, and was the rec
                                                             it

  otagkneize"d tecau-sptootmlutchkat"  a man was at liberty to drop in and
                                        with any friend provided that he

  contributed to his own entertainment by bringing with

  him his milk-jug.

    A quotation from "Julian Home," which like "Eric"
  contains many autobiographical touches, here given to
                                                             is

  illustrate the zest with which                 my  father  entered  into               the

  social life of his college --
    !
                       :
  "Oh, those Camford conversations -- how impetuous,

  how interesting, how thoroughly hearty and unconven
  tional they were How utterly presumption and igno

  rance were scouted in them, and how completely they

  were free from the least shadow of insincerity or ennui.

  If could but transfer to my page a true and vivid pic

  ture of one such evening spent in the                      society of St.
                                                                 could write
  Werner's (Trinity College) friends --
                                                     if

                                                       I

  down but one such conversation, and at all express its

  vivacity, its quick flashes of thought and logic, its real

  desire for truth and knowledge, its friendly fearlessness,

  its felicitous illustrations, its unpremeditated wit, such a

  record, taken fresh from the life, would be worth all that
42 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

I shall ever write. But youth flies, and as she flies all

the bright colours fade from the wings of thought, and

the bloom vanishes    from the earnest eloquence of speech.

  " Yet, as I write,  let me call to mind, if but for a mo

ment, the remembrance of those happy evenings, when

we would meet to read Shakespeare or the poets in each

other's rooms, and pleasant sympathies and pleasant

differences of opinion, freely discussed, called into genial

life friendships which we once hoped and believed would

never have grown cold. The belief has proved to be

mistaken, the hope delusive, and the evanescence of

youthful friendships, amid the hardness and malice of

the world, is not the least bitter of life's experiences.

But though the reality has ceased, who shall forbid to
any one the enjoyment of remembrance ? Let the image

of that bright social circle, picturesquely scattered in

arm-chairs round the winter fire, rise up before my fancy

once more, and let me recall what can never be again.

Of the honoured and well-loved few who one night re

corded their names and thoughts in one precious little

book two are dead, though it is but five years back ;

C. E. B  is dead; and R. H. P  is dead; C. E.

B , the chivalrous and gallant-hearted, the champion
                                              '
of the past, the ' Tory whom Liberals  loved    ;  and

R. H. P  , the honest and noble, the eloquent speaker,
and the brave actor, and the fearless thinker -- he, too,

is dead, nobly volunteering in works of danger and diffi

culty during the Indian mutiny ; but others are living

yet, and to them I consecrate this page ; they will for
give the digression, and for their sakes I will venture to

let it pass. We are scattered now, and our friendship

is a silent one ; but yet I know that to them, at least,

changed or unchanged, my words will recall the fading

memory of glorious days."
        THE UNDERGRADUATE                         43

   His method of work     and  reading   may  be illustrated
by the following extract
                          :--
" He studied with an ardour and a passion before

which difficulties vanished, and in consequence of which

he seemed to progress not the less surely, because it

was with great strides. For the first time in his life,

Julian  found himself     entirely  alone in the great wide
                          alone to  wander at his own will,
realm   of literature --

almost without a guide. And joyously did that brave
young spirit pursue its way -- now resting in some fra

grant glen, and by some fountain mirror, where the

boughs which bent over him were bright with blossom

and rich with fruit -- now plunging into some deep

thicket, where  at every step   he had   to push  aside the
heavy branches  and tangled              and now  climbing
                               weeds --

with toilful progress some steep and rocky hill, on whose

summit, hardly attained, he could rest at last, and gaze

back over perils surmounted and precipices passed, and

mark the thunder rolling over the valleys, or gaze on

kingdoms full of peace and beauty, slumbering in the

broad sunshine beneath his feet. Julian read for the
sake of knowledge, and because he intensely enjoyed

the great authors whose thoughts he studied. He had

read parts of Homer, parts of Thucydides, parts of

Tacitus, parts of the tragedians, at school, but now he

had it in his power to study a great author entire, and

as a whole. Never before did he fully appreciate the
'thunderous lilt' of Greek epic, the touching and vo

luptuous tenderness of Latin elegy, the regal pomp of

history, the gorgeous and philosophic mystery of the old

dramatic fables. Never before had he learnt to gaze

on 'the bright countenance of truth, in the mild and

dewy air of delightful studies.' Those who decry clas

sical education do so from inexperience of its real char
44 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

acter and value, and can hardly conceive the sense of
strength and freedom which a young and ingenuous in
tellect acquires in all literature, and in all thought, by
the laborious and successful endeavour to enter into that
noble heritage which has been left us by the wisdom of
bygone generations. Those hours were the happiest of
Julian's life ; often would he be beguiled by his studies
into the ' wee small ' hours of night ; and in the grand
company of eloquent men and profound philosophers
he would forget everything in the sense of intellectual
advance. Then first he began to understand Milton's

noble exclamation : --

               " How charming is divine philosophy !

                      Not harsh and rugged as dull fools suppose.
                     But musical as is Apollo's lute,
                   And a perpetual feast of nectared sweets,
                     Where no crude surfeit reigns.

   " He studied accurately, yet with appreciation ; some
times the two ways of study are not combined, and while
one man will be content with a cold and barren estimate
of 7e's and 7rov's derived from wading through the un
utterable tedium of interminable German notes, of which
the last always contradicted all the rest; another will
content himself with eviscerating the general meaning
of a passage, without any attempt to feel the finer pulses
of emotion, or discriminate the nicer shades of thought.
Eschewing commentators as much as he could, Julian
would first carefully go over a long passage solely with
a view to the clear comprehension of the author's lan
guage, and would then re-read the whole for the pur
pose of enjoying and appreciating the thoughts which
the words enshrined ; and finally, when he had finished
a book or a poem, would run through it again as a whole
              THE UNDERGRADUATE                           45

with all the glow and enthusiasm of a perfect compre

hension.

   " Sunday at Camford was a happy day for Julian Home.

It was a day of perfect leisure and rest ; the time not

spent at church or in the society of others he generally
occupied in taking a longer walk than usual, or in the

luxuries of solemn and quiet thought. But the greatest

enjoyment was to revel freely in books, and devote him

self, unrestrained, to the gorgeous scenes of poetry, or
the passionate pages of eloquent men.1 On that day he

drank deeply of pure streams that refreshed him for his

weekly work ; nor did he forget some hour of commune,
in the secrecy of his chamber and the silence of his

heart, with that God and Father in whom alone he

trusted, and to whom alone he looked for deliverance

from difficulty and guidance under temptation. Of all

hours his happiest and strongest were those in which

he was alone -- alone, except for a heavenly presence,

sitting at the feet of a Friend, and looking face to face

upon himself."

The effect produced upon his mind by the chapel
                          describes : --
ser"viScet.s    he thus  (Trinity) Chapel  on  a  Sunday  evening  is
              Werner's

a moving sight. Five hundred men in surplices throng
ing the chapel from end to end -- the very flower of

English youth, in manly beauty, in strength, in race, in
courage, in mind -- all kneeling, side by side, bound to

gether in a common bond of union by the grand historic

association of that noble place -- all mingling their voices

together with the treble of the choir and the thunder-

music of the organ. This is a spectacle not often equalled ;
and to take a share in it as one for whose sake, in

    1 The poets that most influenced his mind at this period were Milton,
Wordsworth, and Coleridge.
46 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

part, it has been established, is a privilege not to be

forgotten."

fIrohImavme"aJkuhelaidannwo iHthaopmmoelyog"fyabtehfceoarr,usiIen,tkrfnoroodwmuctimnhgaatnytthhceeosynevreeprpasrasostdiaougnceses

not only his ideals, but his practice and habit of mind

during his Cambridge career.   " Men  I Have  Known "
   The following extract from

gives us a good idea of his attainments in his under

graduate days : --
   " Professor Harold Browne, afterwards Bishop of Ely
and Winchester, was always kind to me. He welcomed

some of my papers in the Preliminary Examination with

words of singularly high encouragement, and told me

that he had kept them for years. I only came across
the learned Professor Mill once. He had set a paper

in the University Scholarship Examination, and his way
always was to print four or five Latin and Greek pas

sages for translation, and ask the candidates to assign

them to their proper authors. This was generally an

easy thing to do ; but one year he set a passage from the

soldier-historian, Ammianus Marcellinus, who died about

a.d. 390, and had been an officer in the bodyguard of the

Emperor Julian. I should think that this was the first

and the only instance in which the Latinity of the Syrian

author has been used as a test of scholarship in a Uni

versity competition. Dr. Mill told me that I was the

only one of all the candidates who had assigned the

passage to its rightful author ; and as I was only a fresh

man at the time, he was a little surprised, and asked me

how I came to be acquainted with such a writer, whom

he personally admired, but who was wholly unknown to

the classical curriculum of Cambridge. I answered that

it was by mere accident. Ammianus Marcellinus is not
           THE UNDERGRADUATE                       47

infrequently referred to in Elliot's ' Horae Apocalyp-

ticae,' and this had interested me in him, and made me

acquainted with his style."

By his untiring industry, joined to a memory singu

larly retentive, my father not only attained distinguished

university success, but laid the foundation of an edifice

of learning, which those of his contemporaries who knew

him best regarded as phenomenal.

   His  "  college  tutor, J.  L.  Hammond, thus wrote of
           From a              of
him :               long list      pupils I should select him

as the one most remarkable for mental activity and
eager pursuit of knowledge. To this vigour and earnest

ness of purpose he united a high and generous spirit

and a perfectly blameless character -- the pleasantness

of his manners and the frankness and amiability of his

disposition made him one of the most agreeable, as he

certainly was one of the most distinguished, of my pupils."
In 1854 he graduated B.A. First class (bracketed
Fourth Classic) in the Classical Tripos and a junior
           in the Mathematical      Tripos.    In 1855 he won
optime     Bas Prize (for an essay   on " The
                                                Influence of the
the Le

Revival of Classical Studies on English Literature dur
ing the Reigns of Elizabeth and James I "). In 1856 he
was elected a Fellow of Trinity College, and won the
Norrisian Prize (for an essay on " The Christian Doctrine
of the Atonement not inconsistent with the Justice and
            of God"). He       graduated M.A. in
Goodness   Master of Trinity                        1857.
                                at this epoch was  the famous
   " The
Dr. Whewell, author of the ' History ' and of the ' Philos

ophy of the Inductive Sciences,' a man who was supposed

to know 'something about everything, and everything
about some things,' and of whom it was said that ' science

was Dr. Whewell's forte, omniscience his foible.' On one

occasion, two of the Fellows, thinking to get beyond his
48 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

range, began to talk on the subject of Chinese meta

physics, which they had got up for the purpose. Whe-

well listened in silence for a time, and then observed,

' Ah ! I see you have been reading a paper which I
wrote for an Encyclopaedia of Science.' After that,

they laid no  "  more  plots  to  find  limits  to  his  universal
knowledge !
My father thus writes of him : " I vividly recall the

fine and stately presence of the Master, which (as an
other myth related) made a prize-fighter deplore that so
splendid a                  and such thews and      sinews,  should
be thrown   physique,       mere clergyman ! "
            away on    a
" To me Dr. Whewell was always kind, and more than
kind. When I was elected a Scholar he addressed me

in friendly terms. He read through with me the poem
on ' The Arctic Regions,' which obtained for me the

Chancellor's medal. In one line I had called the ice
bergs ' unfabled Strophades.' ' Ah ! ' he said, ' an ad
                         '
mirable expression     !    And he had a little talk with me

as to whether I meant a particular word to be ' irrides-
cence ' or ' iridescence.' In the examination for the

Trinity Fellowships a paper was always set in Moral

Philosophy and Metaphysics. I happened to have read

all through the works of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, for

whom I felt in those days a boundless admiration, and
whose works I had selected for one of my Trinity prizes.
In my paper I had often referred to the views of Cole

ridge, and this pleased the Master very much, for

(though I did not know it) he, too, had a great sympathy
and admiration for S. T. C. He told me with a pleasant

smile that he had never before met with a fellowship

candidate who had made the same use of Coleridge's

views as I had done." Criticising some essay of my

father's in which he thought he had made undue use
        THE UNDERGRADUATE                                     49

of the  editorial "we,"    Dr.  Whewell            said, "Ah, that is
        call ' Wegotism.'   "
what I

The Chancellor's gold medal for English verse was

won  "bTyhme yArfcatthicerReingio1n8s52.andThthee  subject  for the year
was                                                 Hopes   of Discover
iLnog"rdtIhTweeansLnoyfsostrotAnudnv"aethneetuetrhneuorssu.g"thellstIonthoehbitssation"ryRtehomef iniCti:shc--aenncceellsor'osf
                                                   --a
gold medal at Cambridge    for a poem               It  very  poor one,
                             Regions.'                  was   in blank
I fear -- on 'The Arctic

verse, and my competing for the medal was almost ex

clusively due to the accident that I had once been

detained for more than two hours at a small railway
station in the country. The prize had not once been

given for a poem in blank verse since the single occa

sion on which it had been won by Tennyson in 1829 for
a poem on ' Timbuctoo.' There is a legend at Cam

bridge that one of the then examiners -- the History
Professor, Professor Smyth -- had written on the outer

leaf of this poem v.q., which he meant for ' very queer,'

but the other examiners took it forv.g., 'very good,' and

assigned the medal to it. The legend is, I should think,

an entire myth, and unquestionably Tennyson's prize

poem contains some far finer passages than any other

poem which had been so rewarded either at Cambridge or

Oxford, though among the successful competitors have

been such names as those of Heber, Macaulay, and Mack-

worth Praed. As so many years had elapsed since he

had broken a fixed tradition by a blank verse poem, and

since I had followed his example, I took the liberty,
which I knew his kindness would forgive, of sending
him my verses, and mentioning the circumstance. In

those days the poet wrote his own letters, which he rarely

did in later years, and I received the following reply : --
SO LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

  " ' Dear Sir : -- I have just received your prize poem,
for which I return you my best thanks. I believe it is

true that mine was the first written in blank verse which
obtained the Chancellor's medal. Nevertheless (and
though you assure me that reading it gave you the deep

est pleasure), I could wish that it had never been written.
-- Believe me, dear sir, yours very "tr'uAly., Tennyson.' "

The two following letters from Cambridge friends are

given  to illustrate   the high level     of    life and    thought
which  obtained in    the little coterie  of
                                              friends : --

  "My dear Farrar: I have just read the Tripos list,
and I assure you that your place gave me more pleasure

than any other, bracketed with your old enemy -- or

rather rival. There is no one, dear Farrar, of all those

who have gone out this year who in my opinion has

been a greater blessing to the circle of friends among

whom they have been thrown than you have -- all who

knew you must ever recollect the kindness and goodness

of your heart, and the warmth of your love. Your social

and pleasant evenings in which the greatest pleasure

was always to hear you talk will ever be one of my

dearest recollections of Trinity. I am sure, too, you will

let me add that there is no one to whom a University

career has done more good or on whom high University

honours could have been better conferred, than on you.

Others may have maintained their           former   reputation.
But you have each year increased                    and will no
                                          yours --

doubt shortly succeed in surprising every one by some

tremendous doings in the fellowships. . . .
                   " Ever your affectionate friend,

                                  "William E. Robinson."
           THE UNDERGRADUATE                            51

Judge Vernon Lushington writes : --

  I" To me he then seemed -- and greet the memory

of it -- as the type of a gifted and rich-hearted young

student, rejoicing in his first outlook on intellectual life

as a man. He had no special interest, I think, in the

scientific studies of the place, or even in history, and

still less in politics; but in scripture phrase he had

'compassion for the multitude.'
   " His subject was a pure and exalted personal morality

for all, not of the mere negative kind, but a very active

one, and the imaginative literature illustrating such

aspirations, -- the literae humaniores in short. He de

lighted in ' the cloud of witnesses.' These he studied

with extraordinary eagerness, for the matter chiefly, but

also for the form. They fed his ardent spirit, gave him

a great hope and courage, and called forth his own

pow" eHrsis  of copious expression   both by word and   pen.
             own life at that time  was a retired one.   Simple

and healthy himself, he took little or no part in games

or other amusements ; he was essentially a student, and
a most industrious one, consorting meanwhile with the

most thoughtful of his contemporaries, and delighting

in discussing with them his favourite subjects : they in

turn recognised his remarkable talents and character.
Mutatis mutandis he was a sort of young Milton among

them. It was my good fortune to be often in his fa

miliar company, and we were always on affectionate

terms, but I hardly lived with him. Our after paths

diverged, and I had no share, except as a remote spec

tator, in his brilliant and strenuous career. But our af

fectionate regard for one another remained on both sides

unchanged to the end.
52 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " To sum up : in my memory of your father, the youth
was in a rare degree the father to the man. He showed
in his youthful manhood the elements, the striking fea
tures of his after goodness and distinction ; necessarily
also the corresponding limitations (since life is so wide
as well as so deep, and happily so manifold).

   "With grateful and happy recollections of my old

friend, I am

                       " Always truly yours,
                                       "Vernon Lushington."
                         CHAPTER V

                ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH

   In 1854, before the results of the Tripos were out,
he was invited to become an assistant master at Marl
borough College. The circumstances of this mastership
and of his ordination are told in an autobiographical frag
ment, " My First Sermon," contributed to a magazine: --

   " My life has been planned and guided for me. When

I stood for my degree at Cambridge, I did not know what
my lot was to be. I had decided to become a candidate
for Holy Orders ; but whether I should stay up at Trinity

College, Cambridge, try for a fellowship, and live on it

as a tutor, or whether I should take a curacy somewhere
in the country, or whether I should seek work as a school
master, or whether I should become a missionary as my

father had before me, all these things lay, as Homer says,
'on the knees of the Gods.' The call and the direction

came unsought. Before my degree was out I received

a letter from the Head-master of Marlborough College,

afterward Bishop of Calcutta, Dr. G. E. L. Cotton, --
then a perfect stranger, -- asking me to accept a mas
tership in the Wiltshire College, where my friends, Pro
fessor E. S. Beesly and Mr. E. A. Scott, were already

at work. I obeyed the call, and after a few weeks Dr.

Cotton, who remained a very dear friend to me and
corresponded with me up to the day of his sudden and
lamented death, asked me to be his colleague in the
work of the Sixth Form. Many of the boys in that

                                                                   53
54 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Sixth Form have, since then, risen to positions of emi

nence. I remember once seeing a boy chasing another,

who wore a scarlet cap, round the court, and shouting
after him, ' Keblepuris! Keblepuris ! ' That is the Greek
for the ' red cap,' and the boy had taken it from ' The
Birds ' of Aristophanes, which we were then reading.
The boy who was chasing the other is now the Right
Reverend, the Primate of Australia ; the boy in the red
cap is now the Right Reverend, the Lord Bishop of

Glasgow. It reminds one of Shenstone's lines : --

           "Yet, nurs'd with skill, what dazzling fruits appear!
              E'en now sagacious foresight points to show

           A little bench of heedless Bishops here,
            And there a Chancellor in embryo.

   "When Cotton went to Marlborough the school, now so
popular and famous, was passing through an acute period
in its history. One of the first remarks which Dr. Cotton
made to me was, ' You know any day the school may
disappear in blue smoke.' The college was at that time
overwhelmed with debt, owing to bad management, and
at first each boy was actually costing more than the low
annual sum he paid, though the boys were badly fed
and roughly housed. With indomitable patience and
resolution, and often ' in the teeth of clenched antago
nisms,' Cotton altered this; and though he was by no
means a facile schoolmaster, and could punish with sever
ity, his quaint humour and his unqualified devotion to
their interests, together with his admirable weekly ser
mons, soon gave him the highest influence among the
boys. He gathered round him a devoted staff of mas
ters, who, for the sake of the school, were ready for any
self-denial, and who treated the boys as so many younger
brothers. In the old rough days there were masters
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 55

who, though they doubtless meant to be kind, kept up

the inexorable severity with which, until this generation,

boys had normally been trained for many years. In

those days the commonest possible sight was to see

boys' backs scored with red and blue marks from strokes

of the cane, or to see their hands sore or cut from what

were called ' pandies,' inflicted by the same instrument

of torture. Nous avons change" tout cela. The 'rebel

lion,' which had most seriously shaken the very exist

ence of the school, was hardly detumescent ; but Cotton's

Isovereign good sense soon swept away even the remem
brance of it.     recollect that, when I arrived as a young
master, some forty-three years ago, the first thing I saw
was a huge chalk inscription on the wall, 'Bread or

blood!'' Cotton simply summoned the boys together,

told them that his best efforts were being given to im

prove the commissariat (which was not in his hands),
and that, instead of scrawling up vulgar and stupid in

scriptions, they should confide in him. The masters con

ferred together, swept away the old bursar-and-steward

arrangement, took the finances in their own hands, agreed

not to draw one penny of their incomes till the end of

the year (to save interest), and then to regard each pound
as a share. They also offered to give up the whole of

their incomes altogether, if funds were not forthcoming,

or only to  take  any percentage    of  them which   might be
available.        the end of the  year               been the
             At                         -- such had
improvement in the management -- every hundred pounds

was worth more than a hundred pounds, though the com

fort of the boys had been largely and in every way im

proved. The whole body of masters then at once gave

up the additional quota which was fairly theirs. That

year of crisis saved in all respects the fortunes of the

school, and turned all its sons into the most loyal of
56 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Marlburians. It is a great delight to me to have been

a master during so interesting a year."

Old pupils still living recall how he would take them

for long walks over the downs, pouring himself out in a

continuous flood of vivid talk the whole time, and how

he would entertain them to tea on his return, and the

lavish recklessness with which he shovelled the tea out

of his caddy into the tea-pot.

The following characteristic sketch by Canon Henry
Bell, a pupil of my father's during the first Marlborough

period, and an assistant master for a year during his head-
                                                 epoch : --
 gives           a delightful picture   of this  iwn as18--54.theI
came            to Marlborough as a     master
                                       think it
                first pupils in --
Ima"stFearsrhriapr,
was one of his

Lower Fifth. We were taken in the big schoolroom

with eight other Forms. I quite remember how his

treatment of us was a revelation. His whole manner,

his kind way of speaking to us, was something we had

never been accustomed to : he completely won our

hearts, and there was nothing we would not have done

for him. The old regime was that of the law, -- ' Do
this, or die'; 'Know your Virgil, -- or, Stand round.'
No doubt we were a rough, idle lot -- how could it have

been otherwise when the cane was the only incentive

and the sole civiliser? To have a kind word spoken to
one was a thing unheard of, undreamt of -- but Far
rar came. He was one of Cotton's inspirations, -- with
him Edward Ashley Scott, and ' Charley ' Bere, as we

affectionately called him.
"More 'inspirations' joined him the following year,

names never to be forgotten for all time for all they did

for Marlborough, -- Spencer Beesly,1 Tomkinson, Bull,

     1 Spencer Beesly was already at Marlborough when my father joined
the staff.
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 57

Jex Blake, Gilmore. Well, Farrar came, and brought
the boys who were in his Form a new idea of life, and

the conviction that we were made for something better
and higher than to be caned and cuffed. Till Farrar
came we did our verses out of a book, -- I hope I have

forgotten its name forever, -- but I remember it opened

with a sketch of an exulting horse careering over a plain,

or some twaddle of that kind.1 We were thoroughly
satisfied with it -- we knew nothing better ; and was

there not a convenient crib ! Well, Farrar pitched the

book into the fire, and gave us some poetry instead.

Why, most of us had hardly heard of poetry : the exult

ing horse was our one ideal of it. Our first copy was, ' Oh,

call my brother back to me,' which was followed up by
'Cophetua,' 'Ye Mariners of England,' and many another.
  " I remember we were doing in Form Horace's Epistles,
and one day -- I
I certainly was   nsoupt p--ostehehree  was the  head of the Form,
                                        came a
                                                 letter to Fryer --
we called him Friar Tuck -- asking some of us to tea.
I wish I could reproduce the humorous words in which
the invitation was couched : all I can recall about it is

that it was a parody on one of the Epistles, of the Third

Book I think, which we had been doing in Form.

" Si potes archiacis convive recumbere lectis --
  Nee modica coenare times olus omne patella --
  Supremo te sole domi Torquate manebo.

" Such an event as tea with a master was an event in
Ideed.
        for one was in mortal terror. What was one

    1 The lines run --

                 The fiery steed, his tail in air proudly cocked,
                 Not without much neighing traverses glad pastures.
    As my father said of it in his Royal Institution Lecture, "This is the
sort of kelp and brick-dust used to polish the cogs of their mental ma
chinery."
58 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Ito say ? -- how comport oneself ?                almost wished my

name had been left out of the invitation. But the mo

ment we got into the room he shook hands with us,

welcomed us, and in two minutes we were at ease and

at home with him, as he plied us with jam and cake, and

chaffed us in his own genial way. I remember he es

pecially chaffed me about cricket : ' What fun can you

see in trundling a piece of leather at three bits of

stick ! ' He was with us in the Fifth only a very short

time, but I look back to it as the time when my friend
shi"pOwfitchouFrsaerrahris                        till his
                            began   which lasted  Sixth.    death.  recall
                             place  was with the
                                                            I can

a whole holiday when he took the members of the Sixth

in a Brake to Stonehenge, and I was invited to join them.
Philistine as I was, I persuaded them to take a football.

I'm afraid Stonehenge in itself had but little interest for

me. On our arrival I remember being taken to gaze on

the huge stones, and being terribly bored and only too

glad when the lecture was over and one could get the

football out. I remember how we chose sides and Far

rar joined in the game and enjoyed it as much as we

did. But what ruffians he must have thought us !

What a bathos ! Football and the Druids !
   " Farrar was never what you may call a game lover, but

he knew that he could get hold of fellows best by join

ing with them in their games ; so when he came he took
to fives and was soon no mean hand, and to football, in

which he could perhaps never have excelled, but which

he played with an energy which many of us of that day

well remember.
   " Too soon, alas ! Harrow stole him from us and kept

him till 1 87 1, when he returned to us as head master.

It was my privilege to work under him for a year, only

too short a period, but long enough to show me how his
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 59

whole heart and soul was bent on doing his best for every

boy in the school to make his school days bright and
happy. He loved Marlborough always with the intens-
est love, and never spared himself for her. Well, I will
only add that I feel an affection for Farrar, and retain

a memory of his very many kindnesses which will always

last. He had a peculiarly lovable nature, which could

not fail to attract. The world is indeed poorer for his
                                                   H. B."
death.

Of his work at this period Dr. Cotton wrote : " I

never knew any one who had a greater power of stimu

lating intellectual exertion and literary taste. The im

pulse which he imparted to my sixth form was quite

extraordinary. When boys first joined it they seemed

in a very short time to be imbued by him with a new

intellectual life and a real desire of knowledge and im

provement for their own sakes."

   The following is the story of his ordination and of
his first sermon : --

  I" As soon as I was old enough to be ordained, sent

my name as a candidate to the then Bishop of Salisbury,

Dr. Walter Ker Hamilton, asking him to ordain me on

my mastership to help in the clerical work of the school.

My name was at once accepted, and I had just time to

get to Salisbury for the ordination examination on the

day"  that  the school broke up.    Salisbury  in  time  was  by
            only way of getting to
      The

taking a coach which passed through Marlborough at

three at night. Accordingly, I got the college watch
man to awake me ; and then I was absolutely insane

enough, on a night in late December, to take a seat out

side the coach with no rug and no great-coat ! It was

Ia night of keen frost, and wonder that the night drive
60 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

did not kill me. I was congealed to the very bone, and
when we got to Salisbury I felt very ill. Fortunately,
however, I was young, and my health was very strong ;
and although everybody noticed how ghastly I looked
when I entered the Bishop's Hall for examination, I

"Iescaped with nothing worse than a bad cold.

      was ordained on Christmas Day, 1853, and I was

appointed to read the Gospel in the Cathedral. On the
morning of that day one of the Salisbury clergy wrote
and asked me to take a service and to preach for him at
the workhouse in the afternoon. He said that of course

I could not write a sermon at such short notice, espe

cially as the whole morning was broken up with the
long ordination service ; but he sent me a volume of
the 'Church Homilies,' and advised me to preach the

Homily for Christmas Day. I felt a dislike, however,
to take a book with me and read a Homily which I did

not know very well, and which would necessarily sound

a little archaic. I therefore snatched what brief leisure
I could, and sat down to write at least a sermonet. My
text was naturally the angels' song, and I think a poorer
little sermon could rarely have been preached. It was
an attempt to show what the world might have been if

man had never fallen ; what the world would be once

more when God was all in all ; and how we might per
sonally attain this blessedness by faith in Him who for
us men and for our salvation had taken our nature upon

Him. I remember the scene now : my walk to Salis

bury Infirmary ; the gathering of poor feeble old men
and women in the bare and miserable chapel ; the ill-
equipped and unprepared young deacon, a few hours
old in the ministry, who had to read and preach to them ;
the vacant gaze of the old women, and the stony stare
of the old men as they listened to a sermon of a style
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 61

somewhat academic, and wholly unsuited to them ; the

fact that one at least, and I think several, unceremoni

ously got up in the middle and walked out, which under

the circumstances was very excusable. And yet that
wretched little sermon, which I believe exists somewhere,
but at which I certainly could not look without a shudder,
                                 which (as I faithfully
contained    one lovely passage                           ex
plained)                         was the beautiful close   of
           was not my own. It
the Christmas Day Homily, and is, I think, the most
beautiful passage in all the Homilies. It runs as follows :

'Therefore, dearly beloved, let us not forget this ex

ceeding love of our Lord and Saviour. Let us confess

Him with our mouths, praise Him with our tongues, be

lieve on Him with our hearts, and glorify Him with our
good works. Christ is the Light; let us reveal the

Light. Christ is the Truth ; let us believe the Truth.

Christ is the Way ; let us follow the Way. And because

He is our only Master, our only Teacher, our only Shep

herd and Chief Captain, let us become His scholars,

His soldiers, His sheep, His servants. . . . Let us re

ceive Christ not for a time, but for ever ; let us believe

His word not for a time, but for ever ; let us become

His servants not for a time, but for ever, considering

that He hath redeemed us not for a time, but for ever,

and will receive us into His heavenly kingdom, then,

to reign with Him, not for a time, but for ever.' 1

   "Such was my first sermon, preached in a country

workhouse, and a dead failure, I should imagine, if ever
there was one. Why, it may be asked, did I not take

    1 My collateral ancestor, Robert Farrar, Bishop of St. David's, burnt for
the Protestant faith at Carmarthen in the reign of Queen Mary, was a
chaplain of Cranmer's, and is known to have had some share in the

Homilies. I try to persuade myself that he wrote this homily, and so lent

me the only good part of my first sermon. -- Note by Dean Farrar.
62 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

what would have been the natural and much more effec
tive course, and speak to the poor people a few words

extempore? Often and often since I have preached

extempore to poor haymakers in a barn, and to great
congregations in cathedrals and elsewhere, and prob
ably, with a little training, it would have come even
more easy to me to preach without a manuscript than

with one. But I had never had one-quarter of a min

ute's training or advice about either reading or preach

ing, and it never occurred to me that I could preach
without book. The chief thing that strikes me as I look

back across the vista of nearly forty years, is how sad
was the neglect of that ordinary training, which might
have made so many of us more effective, who belong
to the generation which is passing away ; how much we

might have gained if we had even been vouchsafed a
little practice in the art of reading. How much our con
gregations might have been saved if the elementary

rules of elocution had ever been explained to us, and,
above all, if some little instruction had been imparted to
us about those things which constitute the faults or the
merits of sermons. . . . But we of earlier date were

left to stumble on our way as best we could. . . ."
   The following extract from a private letter gives an

interesting little vignette of the young master as he

appeared to another of his pupils : --

   "F. W. F. came to Marlborough like an apparition --

a flame of fire -- kindling enthusiasm for all that was
noble and chivalrous. No one ever was so young as he

was in those days, and I suppose he was then twenty-

three or twenty-four ; but the marvel was, how he knew
such a lФt and associated himself with us little fellows,

as if we could minister to his happiness. I learnt much

from him which has made my life a happy one. . . .
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 63

He played football (Rugby) like a madman, running

amuck with his eyes shut, and got awfully mauled,

latissima pulvere farra, as some fellows said, much to
his delight. We were reading the ' Georgics ' at the

time."
  I give here
               an extract                from   my father's sermon,  on
" The History  and Hopes                  of a  Public School," one  of

the series of sermons preached at Marlborough during
                                                                    " In
his  Dheaayds-moafsTtehrsyhiYp,outahnd"  collected  in the volume,
the
                                         :--

"On August 25, 1843, the first Marlburians walked

with considering footsteps about the place which was to

be the new home of their boyhood, and to which, as time

passed on, some of their sons were to follow them. Some

of you who sit on these benches to-day are sons of some

of those two hundred who, thirty-one years ago, first

entered this place as Marlborough boys ; and of their

traditions, of their influences, of their characters, of the

motives brought to bear upon them, of the manner in

which they yielded to those motives, so far-reaching

are the pulsations of our moral life, all of you are the

heirs. The sound of their boyish laughter, the echo of

their happy voices, has died away, and many of them

have passed away from the life of earth. In a body so
large as this, many die as the years pass on. I remem

ber the first boy who ever entered my room as a pupil
here nearly twenty years ago. He lies now under the

deep sea wave. I remember the first head of my form

here -- that memorial window records his character. Yes,
we die ; but not the effect of our deeds. All other sounds

        " Die in yon rich sky,

          They faint on hill, on field or river ;
          Our echoes roll from soul to soul,

          And live for ever and for ever.
64 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

  " If you be living weak, miserable, effeminate lives,

then let it be a warning and an awful thought ; if you

are living true, manly, righteous lives, let it be an en

ииииииnobling, an inspiring thought, that your lives too will

live, in their moral echoes, for coming generations of
Marlborough boys.

            и

   " The college then was founded, and they who had
laboured and given their substance for it won thereby
a grace and a blessing which nothing else could have

given them.

   " But how did their work prosper ? At first not well.
Let us bear in mind that in those days it was a great

and wholly new experiment; and some hundreds of

boys -- all strangers to one another, collected in one build

ing, without a past, without unity, without traditions,
-- fell at first into many rough and discreditable ways,
which seemed likely at one time to make the name

of Marlburian a byword and a hissing. It must have

been a bitter thing for those who then worked for our
school to bear ; but they who sow faithfully, though it
be in tears, shall reap in joy. Yes, ' laborare et orare '
were (as in one way or other they always are) success
ful, and the first master of Marlborough 1 has lived to see
that he was doing a work which, though different from
that achieved by others, has yet been granted to few.
For to those days of trial, and greatly to his work, we
owe that organisation which has since been imitated in
its minutest particulars by later schools. And what was
still wanting, it was granted to his successor to achieve.

It is something for every Marlborough boy to know that

when he looks at that portrait of Bishop Cotton which

                                          1 Dr. Wilkinson.
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 65

adorns our hall, he is looking at the likeness of one of

the best men whom this generation has produced. It

was God's special blessing to a new school that sent him
here. He was not great as the world counts greatness.
When he came here he was but little known beyond a
narrow circle of attached friends. Nor was it at once
either in numbers, or in intellectual successes, or in im

proved finances, that Marlborough began to flourish.
Yet undoubtedly it was Bishop Cotton who saved the
school. He was here but six years ; and great as was
his work as Bishop of Calcutta and Metropolitan of
India, before that disastrous fall into the waters of the
Indian river after which he was seen no more, it is yet
with this place that his name will be most identified.

It was my own deep happiness in those days to know

him, to love him, to work with him, and in daily walks
and intercourse with him, as afterward by letters, until
he died, to learn what manner of man he was. And
how did he save Marlborough when it might any day
have disappeared, unhonoured and unregretted, from
its place among the public schools of England ? My
brethren, it is well for you to know ; it is a valuable
lesson for any one to know : it was not by the genius
of the thinker; it was not by the brilliancy of the
scholar; it was not by that burning enthusiasm and
personal ascendency with which Arnold of Rugby had
done his work. Such gifts were not his ; but it was by
those fruits of the Spirit which are in the reach of all
and by that heavenly grace which is given in even larger

measure to them that seek it. A calm hopefulness, a

cheerful simplicity, an exquisite equanimity of temper,
a humility which made him a learner to the very end,
a genuine, self-denying love for Marlborough, and for
those boys whom God had here intrusted to his charge
66 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

-- these were what gave to his life that mysterious power

which is always granted to the unselfish purpose and the

single eye. And this was the type of character -- God

grant that  it may long be     stamped     upon   some of the
sons whom   this school shall              which  he produced
                               train ! --
among his pupils and his colleagues. I shall never for

get the spectacle which the Marlborough of that day

presented. Something was due, no doubt, to the fact

that it was a day of adversity, which often brings out all

that is noblest and sweetest in human lives. But cer

tainly the few here present who remember that time will

bear me witness that it taught us all a priceless lesson.

We all felt that it was a struggle, first, whether Marl

borough College should live at all, next, whether it

should live in honour or obscurity. We won no great

successes ; we were beaten in every game ; there was

much that was mean in our surroundings; much that

was trying in our arrangements; much that was still

coarse and rough and unintellectual in the habits of the

place. And yet how we all loved it ! How boys and

masters alike worked for it ! What a pride they felt,

even in its humility ! What a thrill of delight we all felt

when one succeeded ! How ready they were, some of

them, even to the permanent surrender of better pros

pects to serve Marlborough and work for her. And

verily they have their reward ; they have their reward,
that is, if the highest price which life can offer is clearly
to see what is best, and resolutely to do it. And is there
anything better than this ? Life is not the mere living.
It is worship ; it is the surrender of the soul to God,

and the power to see the face of God ; and it is service ;

it is to feel that when we die, whether praised or

blamed, whether appreciated or misinterpreted, whether

honoured or ignored, whether wealthy or destitute,
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 67

we have done something to make the world we came to                                        /*?*."'/

better and happier; we have tried to cast upon the
water some seeds which long after we are dead mayj
still bring forth their flowers of Paradise."

   The following lines were composed as he returned
from Dr. Wilkinson's funeral: --

            IN MEMORIAM M. M. WILKINSON, D.D.

First Master of Marlborough College. Died March 4, 1876.

              Aye, they are o'er, his pain and his endeavour,
                  Our scant acknowledgment, and frequent wrong ;

             Hushed are all tones of praise or blame forever,
                For those who listen to the angel's song.

              He sowed the seed with sorrow and with weeping,
                  Barely he saw green blade or tender leaves ;

             Yet in meek faith, unenvious of the reaping,
                Blessed the glad gatherers of the golden sheaves.

              But we, when reapers unto reapers calling.
                Tell the rich harvest of the grain they bring,

              Shall we forget how snow and sleet were falling
                 On those tired toilers of the bitter spring ?

             And yet of him nor word nor line remaineth,
                  Picture nor bust, his work and worth to tell ;

             And though not he nor any friend complaineth,
                We ask in sadness, -- "Marlborough, is it well?"

             Enough ! he murmured not, -- in earthly races
                To winners only do the heralds call ;

              But oh ! in yonder high and holy places
                 Success is nothing, and the work is all.

            So -- since ye will it -- here be unrecorded
               The work he fashioned and the path he trod ;

              Here, but in heaven each kind heart is rewarded,
                 Each true name written in the books of God.
                                                                                 F. W. F.
68 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

To his first Marlborough period belongs this hymn,

which is printed in the Marlborough            College  hymn-

book : --

              Father ! before Thy throne of light
                 The guardian angels bend,

              And ever in Thy presence bright
                 Their psalms adoring blend,

              And casting down each golden crown

                 Beside the crystal sea,
              With voice and lyre in happy quire

                 Hymn glory, Lord, to Thee.

              And as the rainbow lustre falls

                 Athwart their glowing wings,
              While seraph unto seraph calls,

                 And each thy goodness sings ;
              So may we fall, as low we kneel

                 To thank Thee for thy grace
              That Thou art here, for all who fear

                 The brightness of Thy face.

              Here, when the angels see us come

                 To worship day by day,

              Teach us to feel our heavenly home
                 And love Thee, e'en as they :

              Teach us to raise our songs of praise,
                 Like them, Thy love to own,

              That boyhood's time and manhood's prime
                 Be Thine, and Thine alone.

   Two letters to his  friend,  Professor  E.  S.   Beesly may
be inserted here : --
                                "Trinity College, August 16.

   " My dear   Beesly :  I      have many friends at M.
[Marlborough]   to whom  I       would gladly write, both

Iamong boys and masters, but no one has an earlier or
better claim than you.          must, however, write chiefly

on business.
ASSISTANT MASTER AT MARLBOROUGH 69

   " Will you also tell Turner and Ilbert to go to Fleuss

and get their likeness well finished by September, in order

that I may take it with me if I come down. I should

like to have Warren's phiz very much, and also Han-

bury's together ; but I don't know whether Fleuss's like

nesses are good enough to make it worth while to have
another picture as a pendant to the Ilberto-Turner.

  " I am trying to read for a fellowship, but despairingly
and under great disadvantages. I shall leave in about

ten days for Harrow to see about furniture, and get

taken in.

  " Tell Bull I travelled up to Cambridge with his minute

nephew, who did not cry once, and showed a temper

most angelic for a baby ! Though Bull and I used
intellectually to drive each other into corners, I hope,

in spite of our skirmishes, that he will not forget a

coadjutor who will always remember him with mingled

gra"tiItuhdoep,e  friendship,   and respect.   health  ;  please  give
                   Scott is in  more vigorous
him my love, and also remember me to all friends. I
shall be very glad to hear from you. You can't think

how painful I felt it to leave M. A tear starts while I

think of it -- not the place or the position, but those

whom I loved there more fondly than I knew, and who
will already have well-nigh forgotten my existence. I

me"t  Ilbert in London and      hardly spoke to him.
      Excuse my foll"y,Yoaundr
                                believe me ever

                                affectionate"   friend,

                                               F. W. Farrar."

                                                 "Colehill, January 25.

  " My dear Beesly : I am sorry to hear of your in

tended attempt at Brazenose, because if you try you are
70 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

ииииииIpretty sure to succeed, suppose, and then we shall lose

you, which will be a loss to all of us, but peculiarly to

me, for I have little real society among the masters.

                и

Still it will, I suppose, assist your prospects, and so I
heartily hope you success on this ground. At the
Union I hope you will make a brilliant and effective

display, but take care and don't compromise yourself

by too violent language. It does no sort of harm to

adopt a conciliatory tone for expressing the most uncom

promising arguments.

  " I passed the ordination examination with flying

colours, and was first in and so had to read the Gospel
                         I it,
in the Cathedral, which did with the completest self-

possession, greatly to the astonishment of the rest. The

Bishop complimented me peculiarly on my doctrine,

though expressed my opinions quite unshrinkingly.
I   had to preach and take full service next day in Salis
     I                   I
                                 a
          I                             '
bury at very short notice, and have since been assisting

my father, and  I it     the general opinion of the drapers

and   grocers here thatis   am a promising young              man.'
   "    have done next   to nothing, owing to the             greatest

interruptions.     have heard from Theobald and the
darling 'lXfieprtSiov, and many Upper VI fellows, but

only from two Lower.     I  was disgusted at the way they

did. Cobb got a quadruple first only through super

human diligence, and they all might have done the same;

but though they worked hard, was not hard enough
                                           it

for their dull and sluggish capacities.

  " A brother of Hawkins, the senior classic of my year,

is  coming into the Lower to be under me, by his brother's

advice.  Wishing"  you heartily all            happiness,  I  remain,
                   Your affectionate             friend,
                                               " F. W. Farrar."
                CHAPTER VI

                     HARROW DAYS

   Toward the close of 1855 my father was appointed by
Dr. Vaughan, who remained to the close of his life one

of his most affectionate friends, an assistant master at

Harrow. Here he remained for fifteen years, -- years

filled not only by a strenuous devotion to his magisterial

duties, which won for him the grateful and loyal affection

of successive generations of Harrovians, but by many

and varied activities outside the routine of school, which

brought him into wider prominence.
   In 1858 he may
                     bweithsaid"   to have  begun his public
career as an author               Eric, or  Little by Little,"

published by request, and founded on reminiscences,
partly autobiographical, of his old school in the Isle of
Man. This was followed in 1859 by "Julian Home," a
tale of college life, of which the  local colour is derived
from Trinity College, Cambridge.    " St. Winifred's, or the
World of School," was not published till 1865. "The
Three Homes"
donym F. T. L.  was originally    published under the pseu
                Hope (derived     from Tennyson's " faintly

trust the larger hope ") and the authorship of the book
was not publicly claimed till 1896. It first appeared as
a serial in the Quiver, and since its publication in book

form more than thirty thousand copies have been sold.

This seems the proper place to attempt a critical esti

mate of my father's work as a writer of schoolboy fiction.

It would be idle to blink the fact that these books have

been exposed to much hostile criticism, and in particular

                     7╗
72 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" Eric," the most popular and the most characteristic of
the series, alike in its real beauties and noble moral les

sons, and by reason of some defects which lay it open to
cheap criticism.

   No journalist, writing of Farrar's work, considers that
he has done his duty by the public till he has duly insti

tuted a comparison between "Eric" and "Tom Brown,"

to the disparagement of the former. For the discerning
critic these books, each admirable in its own genre, no
more challenge comparison than do the works of Fra
Angelico and Frith.

   " Tom Brown's School Days" is the work of a realist,
and no book more true to the life of the schoolboy has

been, or is likely to be, written. It gives an incompara

ble picture of the average public-school boy, -- healthy,
athletic, chock-full of animal spirits, morally sound at the
core, common-sense, if also commonplace. We recognise
the portrait as drawn by a master-hand. We get noth
ing but good by reading the book ; yet healthy and ex
cellent as is its tone, we are not profoundly touched to
finer issues by it.

   Again, the genius of Rudyard Kipling has given us
in " Stalky & Co." a lively and amusing presentment
of one side, the slangy side, of schoolboy life. Those
who do not know the schoolboy, not seldom find the
ntse" Stalky detestable ; but for all his cynicism the young
scamp is sound at heart, and his moral ideals, so stoically
veiled, are not ignoble. He is such a humorous rascal

that I almost forgive even his jeers at Eric. But no

high moral purpose underlies these sketches. We enjoy
them, but are neither better or worse for them.

   "Eric" and "St. Winifred's" are of a wholly different

strain, and no one of enlightened literary judgment
would attempt to compare them with the above. They
                      HARROW DAYS                                                       73

are the work of an idealist, and of one who never wrote
             adnedfincitaennmootratol lepruartpeosbeo. oksIf,wRriettaedner",
without a                                                                     you   dislike
idealism,                                                                     with   a pur
pose," -- cadit qucestio, -- "Eric" and "St. Winifred's"
are not for you. No cynic, and no mere worldling, was

ever wholly in sympathy with Farrar's work ; and the

clever modern public-school boy is but too often an ama

teur of cynicism, whose motto is Surtout point de zile.

He detests emotion, sneers at it in others, and stoically

sup"pTrehsesebsoyits  in himself.          ' St.  Winifred's '                are  not  real
                      of ' Eric ' and

boys like Tom Brown," says the youthful cynic of to
        " but young prigs        who are always '              high-falutin '
day,   spouting poetry."        He does not spout
and                                                            poetry -- not
he. Well, -- perhaps they are not convincingly real

boys, any more than the characters of Dickens are real

persons. Their virtues, and even their vices, are ideal

ised,  but   the      heroes are such      boys   as Farrar was                     him
self,  and,  be       it remembered, "            " was written                     from
                                           Eric

reminiscences of a school in the Isle of Man, and of an

epoch where alike the virtues and the vices of boys were

more primitive and less sophisticated, than is the case

in our large modern public schools of this generation.

"St. Winifred's," which came six years later, and was in

fluenced by both Marlborough               apnedrhaHpasr, rotwhanexp"eErireinec,"es,is
though it has had less effect,

truer to the real life of boys, and has been far less open

to criticism. Judged by the mere vulgar standard of

sales, the   success  "         of these two books   has                      been      phe
nomenal.                         has gone through   more                      than      fifty
             " Eric

editions, but the inner history of the book will never be
fully given to the world. I dare venture to say that
                                                               at it in
yfeewarsb,oyhsa,vehorweaedve"r  Emriucc"h   they may sneer     without              after
                                           for the first time                       tears
74 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

coming to their eyes; but the number of simple-hearted

lads who have been profoundly touched and uplifted by

this book, and of those who have been turned from evil

courses and moved to sincere repentance by                                           will
            a
                                                                                it,
never be fully known.  passed                     since   " Eric "       was         first
   Hardly week ever

published without my father receiving from all parts
of the English-speaking world -- from India, from the
colonies, and from America -- letters from earnest men

who   were  not  raesahdaimngedofto"  write       and    confess with grati
tude  that  the                       Eric "       had    marked a turning-

point in their lives, and that its lessons had been with

them an abiding influence for good.

Some of these letters, too sacred and too intimate for

print, have been preserved, and are an eloquent testi

mony to the far-reaching power with the meek and

lowly of heart of this much-criticised little book,                                  a

power that will survive the sarcastic comments of the

Press,  and even the sneers           oEfriScta" lknyone &     Co.       moving
        all the tributes to "                                is    more
   Of

than that paid by the great Dr. Magee, who was at that
                                                   In consequence of the
time Bishop of   Ptheatet rb"orowuoguhl.d         be better that England
Bishop's dictum
                 a

                               it
should be free than that England should be compul-

sorily sober," sharp and somewhat bitter controversy

had arisen between my father and the Bishop. When

in 1883 the latter lay upon what he himself and others

thought to be his dying bed, he wrote to my father and

in words of touching dignity, and of peculiar pathos as

coming from so proud man, expressed his sorrow for
                       a

all that had beclouded their                      fr"ieEnrdics,h"ipo, f  and went  on to
                                                                         which he   said,
t"hIatnhkashimbeefnorthheasvainlvgatwiornittoefn                                   have
                                                  my son. You should

known this earlier but for the demon of pride."
                   HARROW DAYS                                                   75

  I insert here a few letters,1 referring to " Eric " and his

other works of schoolboy fiction. The first three are
from my father to his friend E. S. Beesly. The remain

der are specimens of letters he was constantly receiving
from readers of those books.

                          " Harrow, November 16.

"My dear Beesly: I fear I forgot to write your
Iname in the ' Eric ' I sent you, a neglect which I will
supply hereafter.  hear that it is selling rapidly and
that a second edition is likely to be soon required. I
know the Saturday Wasp only too well personally, but I
won't mention names. His unchristian tone will do the

book no harm, except that little fools here have read it

and think him an oracle.
" The lacrimosity
            B

                          ,

                      iIs,
                              I
                                             I
                          know, too much, and arises from

the state of mind in which wrote it.             really never

thought of         who will probably never see or hear
of the book, or N
                          neither. Montagu and Owen

are Harrow boys; the latter mentally developed and
made to act as he would do he were ever in such cir
                     is
                         a

                           if

                                              '

                                           a
cumstances. Wildney       little boy named W                                     who

was really introduced to me as very nice little fel

low -- regular devil.' He brutalised himself by drink,
I
       a

           if

               I
was expelled, and went to sea.

   " had absolutely and totally forgotten young H

as much as he never existed, and was only by an effort
                          I

                                  if
                                     it

                                                 is
                                                        a

                                                                              :
of memory that now recalled him. You remember

infinitely more than me. Russell, too,                                         Harrovian.

Wildney and Duncan are the favourites here the book

here has sold immensely.  had quite forgotten the

         may mention that my father seldom, ever, prefixed the date of theII
year to his letters, but only that of the month.
76 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

bottle of wine incident, which was suggested by a carouse

before your time.
" Ball is C                      . Tell me if ' Eric ' finds its way among

Marlburians and if they and the masters like it. Also

please let me know and when, review occurs in the
Daily News. The Critic, Spectator, Examiner, Daily' ifIa

Express, and Evening Courant have all been favourable,I a if,

and am daily expecting more.                  is      have had ^50 for
I

the book (this entre nous) and am to have more at the
second edition, there one.

   " By the bye, Black quite supposes you to be at work
on the History and will be glad to hear from you
        '

when  it     at all in forward state, he bade              me tell you.
         isyou can do anything to help Eric,'                 know you
  " If
                                                  '

                                                         I

will. The letters have received from Oxford and

Cambridge have been most kind and also the warm

encomiums of boys and master here -- the former all the

more valuable from their happy and warm spontaneity.
          " Good-bye,
                    " Ever your affectionate friend,

                                            " F. W. Farrar."

                                                  " Harrow, December
                                                            'I
   '' My dear Beesly                              One line -- have no time for7.
more -- to tell you that                                                     !'
                                                  am exceedingly obliged for the
                                 it I :           '

                                                       'I
Review in the Daily News and feel indebted for your
                               hear -- but have not yet seen -- that the
kindness.
I
       '
        I
                              '
odious Press has been abusing Eric and me.                  daily

expect the second edition.                                  Eric

   " have just heard from Brown at K. W. C.

has been read there. No opinion can be got out of

Dixon, but H. thinks will injure the school. Absurd
but even so, am not to blame -- for the picture, as
           if

                I
                HARROW DAYS                                   77

lax as it is one, is highly nattered. K. W. C. has no Mr.
Rose, or even Mr. Gordon -- or Dr. Rowland. K. W. C.

had certainly no Russell or Owen ; and the things that

did go on there are really far worse than I have

described. By the bye -- you are supposed by some

readers to be the prototype of Montagu. Are you flat

tered ? It was confidently asserted to me by an old

Marlburian.  " Ever your affectionate friend,
                                        " F. W. Farrar."

                                                      " Harrow, March 2nd.

   " My dear Beesly : By all means come on Sunday,

whichever you like best. I shall be glad to see you. In

these days to me the days are dark, and friends are few.

Do not think that I care for the Saturday Review.
With Coleridge I deplore unfavourable criticism from the
good, but I despise it from the weak, and I welcome it

from the bad !
I" Julian has done all the good I meant him to do, and
more.  have had many warm testimonies as to the

good the book has done, and one of them from a judge,

one of the most distinguished on the bench, and a per

fect stranger to me. I can despise the lies of the Sat

urday Reviewer. They injure him more than me.

Meanwhile thirteen thousand copies of the book have

sold already. When you come, tell me frankly as a
friend what things offended you. No one is more open

than I to candid criticism, and no one winces at it

les"s.Do come, and believe me always
                           " Your affectionate friend,

                                            " F. W. Farrar."
78 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                                            "Cambridge, November 15, 1874.

  " Sir : I write to perform a duty that I owe to you
and one which I have intended to do for some time. I
wish to tell you that I have experienced more pleasure

from that schoolboy tale of yours, viz : ' Eric,' than from

anything that has happened to me in my life. I first read

it  at school,  and  have had a copy    by me for years now.
                can                     have never gained so
    " I really       fairly say that I
much from all that I have ever heard or read, or that
has ever happened to me as I have from that book. I
like Eric's nature and the pieces of poetry in it im
Imensely, and I am sure those to whom
                                                   have lent it

have  also  enjoyed      it.
                      "  Believe
                                  me,

                            "Yours truly,

                                        "A. B. (Student)."

                                                  " Norwich, May 29, 1878.

    " Reverend Sir : As Secretary of a very influential

Literary Class, and that moreover in connection with a

Churchman's Club, it may perhaps give you some

amount of pleasure to hear that a great many members

of the class have derived a very great and lasting bene

fit from those eloquent and beautiful              Ibomokyssel'fJuhliaavne
Home,' and ' Eric, or Little by Little.'

to thank you most sincerely for writing them. They

elevate the mind to a purer and more holy atmosphere,

and if read when the mind is in chaos and tumult, they
         ' peace,                               '
whisper              calm,  blessed    peace  !    They give tone,

health, and vigour to the spiritual frame, and feed the
lamp of the Shekinah with oil pure as a crystal. In

the hour of weakness I have found them a source of
strength, and from many of my friends I hear con
      HARROW DAYS                                                                                                          79

stantly of the good that has resulted from a thoughtful

perusal of"yIouamr ,foRrceivbelerenwdorkSsir., . . .          ."

                                   " Your faithful servant,
                                                      " R. D

                                                           " December 29, 1879.

" Dear Dr. Farrar : I expect that you will be sur

prised at my addressing you thus, but, although we have

never met, you seem to be quite an old friend to me.

My special desire is to thank you most heartily and sin

cerely for the great comfort, sympathy, support and en

couragement I have in the first instance received from

the reading of your ' Eric ' and ' St. Winifred's,' as a

boy   : and especially from your  Marlborough Sermons,
as a                              Captain of every school
      young man. I wish that the

in England could read what you say."

      "Hunslet, Leeds, 29, 1, 'oi.

"Reverend and dear Sir: In the belief that the
following fact will be of interest to you, and tho' perhaps
qwurii"tteeDutfhariminsgilniaotrse,om--meatyhyoge'iavarescosomomfpelewteosarktsitsrfiaannctgiEeo.rn,tLoIonyvodeuno.tnu,re
                                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                                           and
Ihere on the outskirts of Leeds, have tried to do some

thing by way of getting boys to read books of the

healthy sort. And I have repeatedly noticed that both

among the very poor of London, and among the better

sort of working folk here, boys have always been enthu
siastic in praise of ' Eric ' and ' St. Winifred's.'

  " I confess that this has surprised me, as I always

feared that the clothing of the stories would make them
80 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

somewhat difficult for the less educated. But I have

found myself altogether mistaken.

  " May I therefore, sir, offer my small tribute of thanks

to you on behalf of my own boyhood, and for the many

boys who, to my own knowledge, have been delighted,

as  well  as  br"acBeedli,evbey  the books.
                         "
                                 me,    Reverend Sir,
                                        You"rsT.obSe.diGe.ntBly,
                                     "

                                 Curate, Hunslet Parish               ,

                                                                  Church."

    " My  dear  S1r :  I am taking            the       " March 27, 1902.
                                                   liberty of writing to
you without personally knowing you, because I wished
to tell you what good your books have done me. I left

Shrewsbury School at Xmas, and it was through read
ing ' Eric ' that I first learnt to hate sin, and ever since
that time, about four years ago, I have tried to live a
pure, brave, and true life at school ; and I have tried to
                                              I know in some cases
help otherf to       do the      same, and    I feel so deeply grate
by God's help                    not failed.
                     I have
ful to you for writing such books, for I tremble to think
what my school life would have been, if I had gone on
as I was doing till I read ' Eric ' and others. I was going

into the army, but now it is my dearest wish to become a
priest, so I shall be going to Oxford, I think, but not just
          I felt I must write to
yet".  I  wish I had the honour         you, so    please do not   mind.
                                        of your    acquaintance :  some
day I may have, perhaps, when I am a man, and not

jus"t  a big   boy.  thanks,
       With   many   " Believe me,

                                 " Ever yours gratefully,
                                              "W. H. P. K ."
                 HARROW DAYS                                      81

                                      " Newcastle-on-Tyne.

   " Sir : Having been too deeply interested for words

in a very touching work edited by you, called ' Eric, or

Little by Little,' I take the extreme liberty, which I

hope you will excuse, of addressing myself to you, and
the further liberty of confessing a very great curiosity
to know the exact situations of various places mentioned,

and the further or present history and names of those
mentioned in that beautiful, because unadorned, little

history.

   "Your little schoolboy history has led me to reflect

on my former life and resolve with not my own strength

to fit myself for a useful man, and not a mere backslider

as heretofore.        as  a  boy  of  honour  and  a  gentleman's

   " I pledge myself

Ison not to disclose whatever you may choose to honour
me with to any one whatever.          also sign my true name

to this letter.              " I am, sir,

                                      "Yours       truly,  A  ."
                                                   R. C.
                                                "

   The following appreciation written after his death
may be inserted here : --

                     "THE LATE DEAN FARRAR

  "A great Churchman is dead, but to boys he will always

be remembered as the author of two of the finest school
tales ever written. In ' Eric ' and ' St. Winifred's ' he
has left behind him a more lasting monument than any
that could be erected of marble. He wrote of the deeper
emotions of boy life and touched its inner chord in a way
which, it seems to us, no other writer has ever equalled.
82 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

So wonderfully beautiful and pathetic are some of the
passages in these two stories that even the most hard
ened reader cannot get over them without tears coming
into his eyes ; and yet they are so thoroughly manly.

We look upon the heroes as if they were our friends ;

we glory in their triumphs, we suffer with them in their
misfortunes. The good that these two books have done
must be incalculable, and in reading them one feels the
stronger to withstand temptation and a more loving
spirit enters the heart for one's fellow-men.

                                                       "F. J. S."

                            FARRAR AS A TEACHER

    The epithet which most characteristically attaches to
. my father's qualities as a teacher is " stimulating." His
             Dr. Butler, then
old friend   about this date,  "heyaodu-rmatestaecrhionfg  Harrow,1 says
in a letter                                                and inspiring

powers would throw life and thought into any form of
any school in England." He was not content to be

merely an effective teacher within the limits of a narrow

routine, but aimed at realising for himself, and imparting

to others, the true meaning and ideal of education as an

instrument of bringing out the full powers of the mind

and equipping the student for the duties of life. Brill

iant as were his own scholastic attainments, and his

powers as a classical tutor, he was not content with

instilling an accurate knowledge of Greek and Latin

syntax, or facility in prose and verse composition, which

in those days were regarded in most public schools as

the be-all and end-all of a classical education, but tried

to awaken in his     peunpshilsrinaedseinnsethoosf eth"edegardan"delaunrguoafgeths,e
literature which is

to lead them to appreciate the "thunderous lilt" of Greek

             1 The present Master of Trinity.
                             HARROW DAYS                  83

epic, the touching and voluptuous tenderness of Latin

elegy, the regal pomp of history, the gorgeous and phil

othseopOhidcysmseyystaesry"  of the old dramatic     fables,1 to regard
                             the best novel that    was ever written,"

and Herodotus as a Greek romance of the rise and fall
of empires, and " strange stories of the deaths of kings."

  In this connection I cannot refrain from inserting

the fine rendering           of the  Hdoemnoeue"m: e--nt  of the Odyssey
                   in "      Julian                       returned in the
which    he gives    to      them    how Ulysses
   " So   he read

guise of a beggar, after twenty years of war and wander

ing, to his own palace-door, and saw the haughty suitors

revelling in his halls ; and how, as he reached the door,

Argus, the hunting-dog, now old and neglected, and full

of fleas, recollected him when all had forgotten him, and

fawned upon him, and licked his hand and died ; and
how the suitors insulted him, and one of them threw a

footstool at him, which by one quick move he avoided,
and said nothing, and another flung a shin-bone at his
head, which he caught in his hand, and said nothing,

but only smiled grimly in his heart -- ever so little, a

grim, sardonic smile ; and how the old nurse recognised

him by the scar of the boar's tusk on his leg, but he
quickly repressed the exclamation of wonderment which
sprang to her lips ; and how he sat, ragged but princely,
by the fire in his hall, and the red light flickered over
him, and he spake to the suitors words of solemn admo

nition ; and how, when Agelaus warned them, a strange

foreboding seized their souls, and they looked at each
other with great eyes, and smiled with alien lips, and
burst into quenchless laughter, though their eyes were
filled with tears of blood : and how Ulysses drew his own
mighty bow, which not one of them could use, and how

                             ╗ Cf. " Julian Home."
84 LIFE OF DEAN FARRARit,
                   a
he handled and twanged the string till sang like
swallow in his ear, and sent the arrow flying with whiz  it
through the twelve iron rings of the line of axes and
then, lastly, how like to a god, he leaped on his own                                 ;a
threshold with shout, and emptied his quiver on the                                            a
ground, and gathered his rags about him, and, aided by
the young Telemachus and the divine swineherd, senta
hurtling into the band of wine-stained rioters the swift            a
arrows of inevitable death."

    But, more than this, he first kindled in the heart of
many a Marlborough and Harrow boy love for Eng
lish literature, and especially for English poetry, for
which they have blessed his name all their lives.

   He was, as Dr. Thring of Uppingham pithily said of
him, " not mere knowledge-box with the lid open, but
a true guide and teacher, able and willing to help,

inspirit, and lead the way."
   Though he had never been trained in any branch of

natural science, and indeed had no special aptitude in
that direction, he was very keen to implant in his boys

   love of nature and to encourage the study of natural
history. With this object he founded the Harrow
Natural History Society, pioneer of many similar soci
eties. He took great pains to ascertain from Sir Joseph
Hooker and others the best method of teaching botany
and became himself fairly proficient botanist.
a
                                        a

                                                 a

The following appreciation, by one of his favourite

Harrow pupils, Mr. George Russell, gives an excellent
             of my father's teaching --
description  was at Harrow, Farrar was an
   " When  I                                                                  assistant  mas
               I

                                                                           :
ter there, and have always blessed the day when fell                          'I
under his influence. At that time he had charge of the
Remove,' -- the top form of the Lower School, -- the
                           HARROW DAYS                        85

average age of the boys who composed it being, I suppose,

about fourteen. Every one who knows Public Schools

knows that boys of that age are thorough Philistines,

despising intellect and glorying in their brutal ignorance.
For such creatures it was a most beneficial experience

to pass into Farrar's hands. He                         employed all his varied
rceassomur--cesin--thkeinedfnfoersts,tosymmapkaethyu,s  sternness, rhetoric, sar

                                                        feel ashamed of being

ignorant, and anxious to know. He was ruthless in
his determination to disturb what he called the ' duck

weed ' -- the mass of sheer indolence and fatuity which
pervaded his form -- and to bring out and encourage

the faintest signs of perception and intelligence. His

contagious enthusiasm stimulated anything which we

pos"sHesesetdauignhtthues  way of   intellectual taste or power.
                           to love  what was beautiful in literature,

art, and nature. He lived and moved and had his being

in poetry, and was never so happy as when helping us

to illustrate our Virgil or Euripides from Wordsworth
and Milton. His Dissertation on Coleridge in the Fellow,

ship examination at Trinity had won the rare and stately

praise of Dr. Whewell, and he loved to indoctrinate his

Harrow pupils with the wisdom of 'the great poet-

philosopher.' Again, he had early passed under the

influence of Ruskin, and that influence reproduced itself

in the constant endeavour to make us see the loveliness

of common things, -- sunsets and wild flowers and fresh

grass and autumn leaves. He tried to make us under

stand Nature as well as love her, by elementary lessons

in botany and mineralogy. He decorated his school
room with antique casts as models of form, and Fra

Angelico's blue Madonnas and rose-coloured angels on

gol"deHne  backgrounds as models of colour.             from  Alps
           brought illustrations for his teaching
86 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

and rivers and rainbows, and pursued his love of beauty

down to the microcosm of gems and bindings, illumina

tions and stained glass. He laid great stress on delicate
and graceful penmanship --not a common accomplish
ment among schoolboys, -- and he paid heed to the

minutest details of his pupils' appearance and manners.

' B , how many centuries have elapsed since your boots
were last cleaned ? ' is a sonorous interrogation which

comes rolling on the  ear of             memory,     blent with such
                      , don't            sit there  " gorgonising me
Avoices as these : '
with your stony British stare," ' and ' C
                                                                    , your igno

rance is so profound that it ossifies the very powers of

scorn.'
   " As some critics here depreciated Farrar's preaching,

it is only fair to say that at Harrow it was a powerful

influence for good. His sermons in the School Chapel

were events long looked forward to and deeply enjoyed.

His exuberance of rhetoric, though in latter years it

offended adult audiences, awed and fascinated boys, and

his solemn yet glowing appeals for righteousness and

purity   and  --mowrahlatcoius ralegses  ulesfutalp--ermonanoeunrt    dints  on our
hearts,  and                                                        lives.
                                                                             I have
never forgotten the first sermon which I heard from him.
It was preached after the first communion of the boys

confirmed at Harrow on March 19, 1868, and is printed

under the title ' Hope in Christ,' in the volume called

' The Fall of Man, and other Sermons.' I had never

before heard eloquence employed in the service of

religion, and the effect was indelible."

   Another old Harrovian thus writes : --
   "The news of Farrar's death -- one can't somehow

lead off with a prefix or an affix to the name of the noble-
hearted man now gone to rest, preferring to remember
                     HARROW DAYS                 87

him and style him as we did when boys at school -- will

be keenly felt by many a middle-aged man who came

beneath his genial influence years ago. With us he was

always Farrar ; no soubriquet, complimentary or other

wise, was ever fastened on him : the nature and the ele

vated character of the man forbade the slightest approach

to juvenile frivolity; and whilst we admired and re

spected, we all loved Farrar. It was my inestimable

privilege to pass  the best  part  of three years under his be
nign control, for             the  second shell, the first shell,
                   I was in
and the remove with him at Harrow, and I can most truth

fully aver that the memories of the example he set his

form, and the great lesson of human charity which he

impressed upon our minds, cannot fail to have proved a
blessing to us all in after life. In all my experience of

this man of exquisite nature, and our associations con

tinued long after the old Harrow days, I never heard

him utter an ill-natured or a harsh observation concern

ing any human being. His great and increasing object

was to discover what good an individual possessed, and

to develop that good, no matter how small, by all that

in  him   lay.
          pursuance
    " In             of this end   he used to lay himself out

to gain the confidence as well as the respect and the

regard of his form, and the boys reciprocated the feel

ings of good-will that he expressed towards them by act

as well as word. There was no master in the school who

could show a lighter punishment book, for even if his

boys were disinclined for work, their affection for their

master insured discipline amongst them ; and as for any

body attempting to deceive Farrar, who always trusted

to one's honour, why, the rest of the form would have

had something  to    say and do that would have  been most
unpleasant to  the    delinquent. Our dear old
                                                  master --
88 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

one calls him old, though he was on the sunny side of

his eighth lustrum at the time I am writing of -- however,

possessed methods peculiarly his own for getting his

boys to work. If a lad professed his inability to commit

to memory the Latin lines included in a repetition lesson,
Farrar would substitute Milton for the other poet, as

suring his victim with a serene smile that the substituted

task  was not  obfeyCoinrcdeth--e  capacity of the most case-hard
ened   victim                      a very favourite expression of
his -- that had ever conceived the world to be formed

in the humble imitation of a cricket-ball : this being the

utmost limit of sarcasm to which our master would com

mit himself. So in the case of other work, a boy who

evinced a desire to cut one subject was promptly coun

tered by the imposition of another, and perhaps easier,

task which for very shame he could not plead his in

ability to perform.

  " I am not aware that in any of the allusions which

have been made to the life-work of Dr. Farrar that a

reference has been made to the devotion he bestowed

upon natural history subjects. His form room beneath

the Vaughan Library was more like a miniature museum

than a place for instructing a lot of boys in Greek and
Latin. It was entirely owing to his initiative that special

prizes, and valuable ones too, were offered in successive

years for the best collections of birds' eggs, butterflies,

fresh-water and land shells, and such like objects, his

idea being to provide an interest in life for the boys who

were not enthusiastic in the matter of cricket. An ex

ceptionally fine swimmer himself, he was determined

that every boy in his form should acquire the art of

keeping himself above water ; and in pursuance of his

desire to attain that end he used to give out at the com

mencement of the summer term that as soon as every
HARROW DAYS  89

boy could swim the length of ' Ducker ' twice, he would
let the whole form off a morning school. The hint was

always taken, and it became the business of the big boys
to see that the small ones qualified for the test. Farrar
even went the length of taking part in the football match

which took place between Remove A and Remove B,

but it must be confessed that we did not gain much by
his assistance; for the master of our opponents, Mr. E. E.
Bowen, a great athlete, assisted his boys, and so Remove
B lost on the deal, but we won the match, and in his

delight our dear old master let us off another first school,

which gave us an additional hour in bed the next morn

ing". At the time when Dr. Farrar was appointed Uni

versity preacher at Cambridge it was my lot to occupy
rooms in Caius just opposite St. Mary's Church, and in

an unguarded moment I let it become known that he

had invited himself to tea after the service. The result

was a scene that he referred to years afterward, when
we met one day in Ludgate Hill, as one of the most
gratifying experiences of his life, as my rather restricted
quarters were filled to overflowing with old Harrow boys
all eager to greet our guest. Nor was there one amongst
them that went empty away, for he had a word of good
will and counsel for all, and not a few amongst them
expressed their sense of the value of his service. In
short Farrar possessed a faculty such as Arnold had,
for identifying himself with the nature of the boys
under his care, and hence the secret of his influence over

them. Incapable as he was of a dishonourable action,

his example was contagious, and he knew his power and
exercised it for the benefit of us all. As a churchman,

as a writer, and as a scholar he was doubtless great ; but

as a teacher for the young he stood alone amongst his
go LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

contemporaries. Had it been otherwise the memories

of his gentleness of disposition, his nobility of character,
his manliness, and love of truth, would have long since

passed away instead of remaining crystallised in the
minds of many others who, like myself, were privileged
to be benefited by the great truths he expounded for the
welfare of his boys."

When I wrote to the writer of the above extract,

which appeared in the Morning Advertiser, for his per

mission to make use of:      received from him the follow

                       iIt,
ing very kind answer --

   " Morning Advertiser, Fleet St. July 26, 1903.

" Dear Sir My Editor has handed to me your letter
   :I
to him, and also the enclosure which hasten to replya
to. It will afford me much melancholy satisfactiona
                                                        a if
you make any use of what wrote about your dear,II
         I                            I
                 I
good father, for whom my respect and boyish love will

ever continue, though left Harrow as far back as 1868.

He was, to my mind, the ideal adviser for the young,

Christian with great mind, and scholar, yet his gen

tleness and goodness were such that he was incapable

of despising the direst of his victims of Circe,' amongst
         a
                    '          was with him for
                            '
whom fear was conspicuous.
I

nearly two years in the Remove,' and never heard

him say an ill-natured or an unkind thing about living
                                              a

creature, except to boy who had lied to him. Very

few fellows, however, tried a falsehood with your father,

for we others, idle, lazy, or whatever we were, would not

stand that, for he possessed faculty for making every
a

                                    :

                                              a
                                                    it

                                                   I
body who came in contact with him remember that he

was gentleman so in our form was considered the

height of blackguardism to 'deceive Farrar.'            only
                    HARROW DAYS                               91

wish we had all followed out his teachings in after life.
You must excuse the abnormal length of this letter, but

your father is a theme upon which I have great diffi

culty in restraining my feelings. . . .
                                     " Yours very truly,

After preaching the University Sermon alluded to
                                             letter, -- dated,
above, my father received the    following
it will be noticed, nine months
                                 later : --

" Dear Sir : I have taken up my pen to write to you

more than once, but until now have never really deter

mined on doing so.

  I" Please excuse the liberty take in addressing you.
The fact is, since I heard your sermon preached before

the University of Cambridge in March last, my desires

and aims have been so completely changed that it is my

duty as well as great pleasure to write and inform you,

that you, through God's grace, have been the means

of it.
" Your book of sermons has helped me on still further,
      I
and   I  trust you  will soon  publish another  set.       !  If
   "     suppose a  minister   must preach for  an object

yours was to set your hearers' desires on high, above

Ithis earth, and its passing pleasures, in one you have

succeeded, and pray, my dear sir, you will have long

years to effect changes as complete as mine.

                " I am, with great respect,
                                  "A University Man.
"January 18, 1869."
92 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

The following contribution is placed at my service by
his old pupil, Walter Leaf, Fellow of Trinity College,
                                   1874: --
Cambridge, and senior Classic in             Farrar  was,  I
                                  Harrow,
  "In 1866, when I first knew

think, already looked upon by his school at large as by

far the most distinguished member of the staff -- the

Head Master being, of course, /tors concours. Farrar

himself, I well remember, was never tired of telling us

that our greatest man was Westcott ; but whatever truth

there may have been in this unselfish eulogy, Westcott's

reputation was at that time limited to academical and

theological regions, while Farrar was fast making a name

in the world at large; and his F.R.S. was an official

stamp which we boys were ready enough to recognise

and reverence. We believed this distinction to have

been given for his philological work, and respected to
the full his Greek Grammar -- even his Greek Grammar

card, which summed up in striking form, with vivid illus

trations, some of the most characteristic peculiarities of

Greek Syntax.    I  had  no experience of    Farrar as a form-
   " Personally          was still taking a  low form -- lower

master. In 1866 he
than the one at which I entered the school. But he was

never at his best as a teacher of a low form ; his half-

humorous impatience of the dull and backward was not

all assumed, and his quick sympathies needed the in

telligent response of the picked boys before his powers

of stimulating and guidance could show themselves.

Hence it was that he was never so happy at Harrow,

where he never had a high form, as with the Sixth at

Marlborough. But I was during my whole school career
his 'pupil' in the technical sense, which at Harrow

practically excluded teaching ; for the weekly ' pupil-

room,' where the tutor gave a lesson of an hour to the
                    HARROW DAYS                          93

whole of his pupils in the lower school, was by the nature

of the case somewhat of a farce, and was looked upon

bot"hItbywabso,ysI  and tutor   as a perfunctory task.   induced
                    think, his  public reputation which

my father to place me under him, for when he went to
reside at Harrow he knew none of the masters person

ally. But this official connection led to a warm and inti
mate friendship between Farrar and my parents, which

lasted to the end. As regards myself, the relation of

pupil and tutor brought me ample instruction, though

outside the official time-table. Farrar's sympathy, when

once engaged, was unfailing ; and his talk, with its infi

nite resources of quotation and literary enthusiasm, was

just what was wanted to stir a boy's open but unin-

structed spirit. It would be too much to pretend that
after a lapse of nearly forty years I can remember many
details ; but I have a distinct recollection of a constant

influence brought to bear upon my somewhat unimagi

native nature in favour of poetry. It is perhaps charac
teristic that one poem which I remember approaching

through him was Myer's 'St. Paul,' then, of course,

very recently published. It appealed to him unmistak

ably, and his admiration was handed on to me.
   " But our purely personal relations were, of course,

even more important to me than the intellectual. The

high moral standard which he set before himself, and

fearlessly impressed upon us boys, may be lightly passed

over here, for his whole life tells equally of it. We were

all sensible of it through his sermons, and in private

intercourse with him the better we knew him the more

we saw that his preaching spoke the inmost being of the

man. But in the every-day affairs of life those who had

to deal with him could always trust to his sympathy and

active help. I still remember the trifling incident which
94 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

first won the heart of a shy and reserved new boy. In the

temporary absence of our regular master, the form was

taken by a colleague not gifted with a warm heart or
keen insight. He brought up against me an imaginary

offence, and, refusing to listen to my denial and expla
nation, gave me my first punishment. It was trifling
                           ' fifty         '
enough  in  itself,  some           lines     ;  but it had to be

written out on special paper, 'pun-paper,' which one

had to get from one's tutor. Smarting with the in

justice, I went to Farrar to get the paper ; and I have

never forgotten the sympathy and kindness with which

he heard what I had to say, and instead of giving me

the 'pun-paper' promised to speak to his colleague.

I heard no more of my punishment.
  "Shortly before I left Harrow he succeeded to the

mastership of a large house which, during the long and

ultimately fatal illness of his predecessor, had lapsed

into notorious want of discipline. I had hitherto been

living with my parents as home-boarder; but now

Farrar strongly urged upon them and me that I should

enter his house as head, practically undertaking the re

duction of it to order. The task was a formidable one

both for him and for me. I foresaw the intense unpopu

larity which my position would involve, and begged to

be excused. But he pressed and gained his point. Into

the struggle which followed I need not enter ; it was
even harder than I anticipated. But when it was once
over I saw that Farrar had been right ; and I have ever

looked upon it as my greatest debt to him that he should

have insisted upon my taking this first share of the grave

responsibility of life. It was a lesson that I needed, and
I am most grateful for the firmness with which he

insisted on teaching it.
   " Another great debt brings none but pleasant memo-
vmmm
                 HARROW DAYS                           95

ries with it. When he went to Palestine in 1870, shortly

after I had left the school, he asked me to go with him

and his old friend W. F. Ingelow, brother of the poet
ess. The journey was a hurried one, as it had to be

compressed into the Easter holidays. We went by Alex

andria to Jaffa and Jerusalem, riding north to Mount
Gerizim, where we were present at the most interesting

ceremony of the Samaritan Passover. We then went

on by Nazareth to the Lake of Gennesaret, and thence

by Safed and the coast road past Tyre and Sidon to

Beirut  and   back by Alexandria   (with a flying      visit to
Cairo)  and                        my companions       to join
             Naples, where I left

my"  parents in Florence.   how  admirably  qualified  Farrar

     It is needless to say

was to stir the  imagination on every site of the Holy
                 ready with his historical reminiscences
Land -- always

and the apt quotations, bearing the little hardships of
travel with a grim patience -- for he did not enjoy them

-- yet ever active and alert to all that could throw a light

upon the great subject on which his mind was continually

brooding. Of incidents somewhat outside the ordinary

routine of the journey I remember particularly a visit to

Mr. Holman Hunt in his studio at Jerusalem; he was

then, I think, engaged on studies for ' Christ among the

Doctors.' The journey had its humorous events. In

those days it was considered proper for every traveller

to carry a revolver for defence against the possible party
of marauding Bedawin. Farrar, who was destitute of

the warrior's instinct, regarded his weapon with consid

erable anxiety. One evening, however, he thought he

ought to clean it and went outside the tent for the pur

pose. Ingelow and I, sitting outside, heard a report --
involuntary of course -- and two holes in the tent showed

that the bullet had passed within measurable distance of
96 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

our heads. Then I have a vivid recollection of his face

in the tent of the Sheikh of the Samaritans on Mount

Gerizim, when a nargileh was placed before him and he

was told that courtesy to our host required him to smoke

it. Again, when our tent was blown down upon us in a

violent thunderstorm at Safed, I remember the comic

pathos of his voice exclaiming, 'I'm outside' -- a posi

tion which Ingelow and I presently shared. The con

tretemps, by  the way,  pleasantly  enlarged our experience
              bedding   alike were  too soaked for further
-- tents and

use ; and for the rest of our journey to Beirut we had to

trust for shelter to the hospitality of the village sheikh

or "thBeutnaotfiveallcamrayvarensc.ollections the clearest and deepest,

because strengthened and confirmed by many years of

later intercourse, is that of the warm and generous heart

which offered a full and loyal friendship so early and in

such wise fashion."

The charm and interest of his teaching remain as a

tradition in the memories of many old pupils, but a more

iposueetrmnosafhnreFinnaterrdamri'onsnuh"misGe"rnetGerkeoef CkhaisSrdys,n"ktialslxo,a"swwealhltricakhinnoewwransofatsmocphmloiflaiaenrdsy

generations of schoolboys, and was first published
            1c8it6a7t.ionTfhroemscitospepreoffactehi:s--work
in March,                                                     is  best  indi
cated by a
" I aimed above all things at making every point intel

ligible by furnishing for every usage (as far as possible)
a satisfactory reason ; and by thus trying to eliminate

all mere grammatical mysticism, I hoped that I should

also render grammar interesting to every boy who has

any aptitude for such studies, and is sufficiently advanced

to understand them. On the latter point I venture to
                         HARROW DAYS                97

Ilay some stress.        have published elsewhere my rea

sons for believing that we commence too soon the study

of formal grammar, and that this study, which is in itself

a valuable and noble one, should be reserved to a later

age and for more matured capacities than is at present

thought necessary. I should never think of putting this

Grammar into the hands of boys who have no aptitude

for linguistic studies, or of any boys below the fifth or

sixth forms of our public schools ; and I have purposely

avoided stating rules or reasons under a form in which

they could be learned by rote. Taught in a parrot-like

manner to crude minds, I believe that grammar becomes

bewildering and pernicious ; taught at a later age and in

a more rational method, I believe that it will be found

to furnish a most valuable insight into the logical and

metaphysical laws which regulate the expression of
human thought, and that it will always maintain its

ground as an important branch of knowledge, and a

val"uaAbllel   means of  intellectual training.     a good deal
              grammars   must necessarily traverse

of common ground, but the careful perusal of a very few

of the following pages will prove, I trust, that this Syn

tax differs in its method from all, or nearly all, that have

preceded it ; partly in the more free and informal manner

of treatment, partly in its perpetual reference to the gen

eral principles of Comparative Philology, and partly in

its constant endeavour to leave no single idiom of Greek

unillustrated by the similar idioms or peculiarities of

other ancient languages, of modern languages, and of

English. A good illustration often throws over an idiom

a flood of light unattainable by the most lengthy expla
nation ; and I feel great
                           hopes that a   student who has
gone, carefully, through   the following
                                           pages will, -- in

addition to what he will have learnt about ancient Greek,
98 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

-- have acquired some insight into the principles of his
own and of other languages. Further than this, I shall

have failed in my endeavour if he do not also gain some

interest in observing the laws and great cyclical ten

dencies of language in general. The historical devel

opment of one language bears a close analogy to the

historical development of a large majority of the rest ;

and this is the reason why I have called such repeated

attention to modern Greek, and to the traces in Hellen

istic Greek, which in modern Greek are still further

developed and carried to their legitimate result."

How amply the "Greek Syntax" fulfilled those ob

jects, let any public-school classical master testify. That
it met a long-felt want is proved by its immediate success

and by the fact that by 1880 it had reached its eleventh

edition.1 Every rule of syntax is explained in lucid

English, and impressed on the memory by a wealth of

illustration which makes the book a pleasure to read.

Indeed, a friend who is by no means a profound scholar

once told me, long after he had abandoned classical

studies, that he found it as interesting as a novel, and

frequently picked it up for the amusement of an idle

hour.

    Before Farrar appeared to ease their shoulders from

the burden, the public-school boys of England had
groaned under the yoke of the " Primer," of which
             writes : --
he  "  thus  ' Primer ' -- that
       The
                                 utterly  disastrous  legacy of the

commission, which, in spite of the strenuous opposition

of many of us, is now forced as a standard grammar

upon nine great public, and countless private, schools --

is a delightful manual, in which the little victim, not

without amazement, learns by heart in Latin such a

             1 Over 14,500 copies of this book have been sold.
HARROW DAYS                                             99

multitude of lucid empiricisms as that ' factitive verbs

have two accusatives, one of the object, the other of

the oblique complement.'  Here, too, at the tender age

of eight or nine his young imagination is terrified,

often by ignorant men, with such incubi and succubi

as 'quid-quale verbs,' 'gerundive attractions,' 'sub-

oblique clauses,' 'spirants,' 'receptive complements,'
' relations circumstantive and probative,' ' quasi pas

sives,' 'semi-deponents,' and I know not what, --

which are hard enough for grown men to understand,
even if they do not despise this clatter of pedantic (be

cause needless) polysyllables, but which to a child must
dbeire.w' o"rse than 'gorgons and hydras and chimaeras

   The above extract is taken from a lecture " On Some

Defects in Public School Education," delivered by my

father before the Royal Institution. It is a significant

fact and highly characteristic of his energy and versatil
ity that, at the very time he was bringing out this ' Syn

tax,' which was to do so much, not only to make smooth

for the public-school boy the stony paths of classical

learning, but to vindicate his own reputation as a scholar,

he should simultaneously be engaged in preparing the

most tremendous onslaught that has ever been delivered

on the system of classical education as then in vogue.
The "Syntax" was published in March, 1867; the

Royal Institution lecture had been given in February
of the same year. This attack on current methods of
education -- all the more effective for being delivered, as

it were, from within, by a scholar whose achievements

as a schoolboy and undergraduate had been exception

ally brilliant, and who was armed with the experience of

thirteen full years of labour spent in the heart of public
schools and devoted to their service -- mercilessly ex
ioo LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                                                                                                                                                                     и

posed the shortcomings of a system which turned out

boys, not only destitute of all literary and scientific

culture, but even so ignorant of the dead languages in

which they had been assiduously drilled for an indefi

nite term of years, that they could not speak two Latin

sentences, or construe Xenophon without a crib.

He drove home this indictment of the hide-bound
                                                                                 " classi
coablsc"ureadnutcisamtiona, ndwitohbsaollel ttehepefodracnetroyf  of so-called  rhetoric,
                                                                   his ardent

in glowing periods, enriched with a wealth of imagery,

illustration, and quotation. The lecture is now out of

print. The subject was so important, its effect has been

so far-reaching, and its style is so characteristic that I

have here ventured to take from it a few extracts which

will give some idea of its scope.

  A Royal Commission had recently reported on pub

lic schools ; the lecture was an outcome of this report,

drew popular attention to its findings, and gave voice

to the determination of the younger and more progres

sive school of teachers that the old system should be

reformed : --
  " I must, then, avow my own deliberate opinion --

arrived at in the  teeth   of the   strongest                     p--osasirbrlievedbiaast
and prejudice in    the   opposite   direction

with the fullest possible knowledge of every single argu

ment which may be urged on the other side -- I must

avow my distinct conviction, that our present system of

exclusively classical education as a whole, and carried

out as we do carry it out, is a deplorable failure. I say

knowing that the words are strong words, but not
it,
                                    is

                                                                   '
                                                                                                              ;

                                                                            a

                                                      I

                                                                               it
without having considered them well and say be

cause that system has been weighed in the balance and

found wanting.' It no epigram, but simple fact, to

say that classical education neglects all the powers of
                      HARROW DAYS                                                                         101

some minds, and some of the powers of all minds. In
the case of the few it has a value, which, being partial,

is unsatisfactory ; in the case of the vast multitude, it
ends in utter and irremediable waste.

    " The proofs of the fact are now but too patent in the

faithful report of eminent and most friendly commis

sioners. For after diligent, anxious, and repeated study

of the four thick blue volumes in which their laborious

investigations lie buried from the public ken, I can draw

from them no other conclusion than that which may be

summed up in these few words : That but a small pro

portion of our boys (say twenty-five per cent) go to
the universities ; that yet the entire curriculum of our

public schools is framed with a view to the universities ;

and that even of this poor twenty-five per cent, who are, as
                                                            --systemco,n--sidearnadbleif
it  were,  the very flower and fruit               of the
    may                                            d'itre,
I                     its raison
    ;      so phrase
               ;

                                           ;

                               it,

                                                                ;
                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                  ;;

                                                                                                       ;

                                                                              a
number (many would be inclined to say the larger num

ber) leave school at the age of eighteen or nineteen,
not only ignorant of history, both ancient and modern,

ignorant of geography and chronology ignorant of every

single modern language ignorant of their own language

and often of its mere spelling ignorant of every single

science ignorant of the merest elements of geometry

and mathematics ignorant of music ignorant of draw

ing profoundly ignorant of that Greek and Latin to

which the long, ineffectual years of their aimless teach

ing have been professedly devoted and, we may add,

besides    --allatlhtiosg, eatnhderpecrohnatpesnt  worst   of all, completely igno
rant of                                              with
                                                           -- their own astonish

ing and consummate ignorance.
102 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " Are we, in the nineteenth century, to learn no more
and to teach no more -- nay, to attempt and to achieve
actually less -- than was learnt by young Romans in the
school of Quintilian, or at best by Gregory and Basil in
the retirement of Athens ? The young Greek learnt
something of geometry; the young Roman something
of law ; even the young monk of the Middle Ages
learnt in his meagre quadrivium some scraps of such
science as was then to be had. Are we alone to follow

the example of the Chinese in a changeless imitation of
our ancestors, and to confine our eager boys for ever
between the blank walls of an ancient cemetery, which
contains only the sepulchres of two dead tongues ?

   " That Greek or Latin -- taught in a shorter period,
and in a more comprehensive manner -- should remain

as the solid basis of a liberal education, we are all (or
nearly all) agreed : none can hold such an opinion more
strongly than myself ; but why can it not be frankly
recognised that an education confined to Greek and

Latin is a failure because it is an anachronism ? It has
outlived its time. It is utterly out of harmony with the
spirit of the age. It may have been all very well three

centuries ago, but is it to remain unaltered after three
centuries, which in the history of the human race have
the importance of thirty ? This is an age of progress,
and we keep spinning round and round on the same
pivot; an age of observation and experiment, and

we keep bowing and scraping to mere authority ;
an age, as Professor Huxley has said, ' full of modern
artillery, and we turn out our boys to do battle in

    equipped with the sword and shield of an ancient
gladiator.' Its continuance due not to its importance,

but mainly, as the commissioners admit, to custom and
prescription and now the new wine bursting the old

bottles."
it,

                                 ;

                                            is
                                                                 is
           HARROW DAYS                                                              103

the"IneSftf"reucMtcekonfwtIithhiHsathlveeectguKoreondo: w--enffe"ctmoyf  father thus writes      of
                                                                         interest in science     on
the intellectual development of many boys, I urged in
my Lecture that the very artificial drilling in Latin and

Greek verse should be minimised, and entirely aban

doned in the case of boys who had no sort of aptitude

for it. I had known boys, who after years of training

in only succeeded in producing at last some limping
it,
                                                                    Sir Henry Holland was in
                                                                 !
and abortive heptameter

the chair; Professor Tyndall, Mr. Spottiswoode, after

wards President of the Royal Society, and other scien

tific  leaders were present.                                            They hailed my Lecture
with                                                                paid the unusual honour of
       the utmost warmth --
          it,

                      I

                                        is
                                             it
printing   not in epitome, but at full length, in the

Transactions, and also begged me to publish as
                                                                                 it
                                                                                           aa
separate pamphlet.  was, of course, howled at as

hopeless Philistine by all who were stereotyped in the
old classical system. That the result which invariably

follows the enunciation of new truths or plans for nec

essary reform. But the Lecture produced marked

effect. At that time there was certainly not more than
                                                                                 a

                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                           ;
one well-known school which had                                                  Science Master
           '

             is
                                    'a

                                                           a

                                                                              '
now there  scarcely school of note which has not.
Then the Latin verse system -- which for most boys

was    aplmroodsut ceadbyvsemryallyinduirseecletssr, esourltsw--hicwh,asatintheall  best,
only                                                                                  but

universal practice now                                              almost entirely abandoned.
I
           is
                   a
                                                        :
                                   it a
                                         it
                                                 is
                                           I
This not the only battle in my life in which outbursts

of ridicule and anathema have been wholly fruitless to

hinder progress in cause which had ventured to

plead at time when was new and entirely unpopular.

had one reward in the lifelong pleasure of enjoying

some intercourse with men who hailed my advocacy with
104 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

the highest approval. It was in consequence of this,
and events which followed, that I first received the fol

lowing very interesting letter from Mr. Darwin. He
wrote : --

                                                               "'March 5, 1867.

  '"My dear Sir : I am very much obliged to you for

your kind present of your Lecture. We have read it

aloud with the greatest interest, and I agree to every
word. I admire your candour and wonderful freedom
from prejudice ; for I feel an inward conviction that if
I had been a great classical scholar I should never have
been able to have judged fairly on the subject. As it
I
                I

                                     a

                                 I

                                                                                        a it is,
am one of the root and branch men, and would leave

classics to be learnt by those who have sufficient zeal

and the high taste requisite for their appreciation. You

have indeed done great public service by speaking out

so boldly. Scientific men might rail for ever, and

would only be said that they railed at what they did not

understand.                   was at school at Shrewsbury under

great scholar, Dr. Butler.    learnt absolutely nothing

except by amusing myself by reading and experiment
ing in chemistry. Dr. Butler somehow found this out,

and publicly sneered at me before the whole school for

such gross waste of time.     remember he called me
                              I

                                 'I a

                                       I
                                             I

                                                     I
                                                            I
Poco curante, which not understanding thought was
aa

    I'

                     it
dreadful name.
" wish you had shown in your Lecture how science

could practically be taught in great school.  have

often heard objected that this could not be done, and

never knew what to say in answer.  heartily hope that

you may live to see your zeal and labour produce good

fruit  and with my best thanks, remain, my dear sir,
              " Yours very sincerely,

                                        " Charles Darwin.'
       ;
                           '
                  HARROW DAYS                                             105
" Mr. Frederic Harrison wrote : --

                     "'7 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, March 27th.

   " ' My dear Farrar : I have read your Lecture with
very great delight. I thoroughly go with you, and I

feel that such words coming from such a quarter and
from the position from which you utter them, are worth

volumes from any other. I know how much public

spirit it takes for any one in the place you hold to speak
his mind independently, but such expressions of yours
make it easier for others to be candid. And they will

be. There is one point in which I think your Lecture

fails to be consistent with itself. The style in which
the old classical system is condemned by you is in a

measure its own justification. It may fairly claim in

the felicity of expression and the fulness of illustration

and reference an example of the literary value of
scholarly training. The attack on scholarship could

only have come from a scholar. It is hit by a shaft

from its own wing.
                     " ' Yours ever truly,

                                      " ' Frederic Harrison.'

   "My Lecture on Public School Education was fol

lowed by another, on January 31, 1868; by various

papers in magazines; by various speeches; by a volume

of Essays x which I edited, and which were contributed

by Mr. C. S. Parker, M.P., Lord Houghton, Archdeacon
Wilson, Professor Sedgwick, Professor Seeley, Professor
Hales, and myself. But perhaps the chief effect of the

initiative I had taken was that I was asked to read a

   1 Sc. : " Essays on a Liberal  Education." [The   Essay on   " Greek   and
Latin Verse Composition as a      General Branch of  Education   " is by  the

editor.]
106 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

paper on the subject at the meeting of the British Asso

ciation in Nottingham, 1867. At the reading of that
paper many scientific men were present. The British

Association granted my request to form a Committee on
the subject of Public School Education. The members

of the Committee were Professors Tyndall and Huxley,

Archdeacon Wilson (then a Master at Rugby), the late
Sir G. Grove, Mr. Griffiths, secretary of the Associa

tion, and myself. I remember a delightful dinner at

my house at Harrow, at which, among others, Tyndall,

Huxley, and Mr. Herbert Spencer were present, when
we discussed the subject. Another of our meetings was

at Professor Huxley's, where we dined, and where I

remember that Sir G. Grove, illustrating the general

ignorance of the most ordinary matters of science, said

that he had once vainly challenged any one of a society

of gentlemen to tell him accurately the difference be

tween a barometer and a thermometer ! As a result of

the discussion, Archdeacon Wilson and I drew up a

report, which was freely annotated by the other mem

ber"s,Theissperecipaollryt  by Professor  Tyndall.     by  the  British
                            was accepted  and printed

Association. The consensus of opinion in favour of our

views grew constantly stronger, and the futile character

of the old public-school curriculum has been so far

amended that it is no longer a subject of regret and

complaint."

   Concurrently with his other work, my father was

much engaged at this period in philological studies. In
1860 he published "An Essay on the Origin of Lan

guage," based on modern researches and especially on
the works of M. Renan; in 1865, "Chapters on Lan
guage"; in 1870, "Families of Speech, Four Lectures

delivered before the Royal Institution of Great Britain
                      HARROW DAYS                     107

gainusaignMegalre"chva,onldum18"e6,F9a.""mLialiInengsua1og8f7e8SpaenthedechLa""nCghwuaeaprgeteesrr.se"proinnteLdanin
   His "Origin of Language" attracted the notice of

Charles Darwin, who was so much struck by the book that

in 1866 he proposed my father for the Fellowship of the

Royal Society, to which he was duly elected. In this

distinction, which is not often attained by those whose

sphere is literature rather than natural science, he felt

a justifiable pride.
   In this connection the following letter which
father received from Darwin is of interest : --       my

                         " Down, Bromley, Kent, November 2.

  " Dear Sir : As I have never studied the science

Iof language, it may, perhaps, be presumptuous, but

cannot resist the pleasure of telling you what interest

and pleasure I have derived from hearing read aloud

you" rI  volume.   read  Max  M tiller, and  thought  his theory
         formerly

(if it deserves    thoeaberincgallewdhasto)yobuothsaoyb, sIcufreeelansdurewetahkat;
and now, after

this is the case, and that your cause will ultimately

triu"mMpyh.indirect interest in your book has been increased

from Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, whom you often quote,

bei"nNg omyonberoctohuelrd-ind-ilsaswen. t from my views on the modifi

cation of species with more courtesy than you do. But

from the tenor of your mind, I feel an entire and com

fortable conviction (and which cannot possibly be dis

turbed), that, if your studies led you to attend much to

Igeneral questions in Natural History, you would come

to the same conclusions that have done.
108 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " Have you ever read Huxley's little book of Six Lec

tures ? I would gladly send you a copy if you think you

would read it. Considering what geology teaches us, the

argument for the supposed immutability of specific types
seems to me much the same as in nation which had
                                                 if,

                                                      ;

                                                          a
                                                                                        is
no old writings, some wise old savage was to say that

his language had never changed but my metaphor

too long    to fill up.  dear    sir,                                   yours    very                                                     sincerely
   " Pray   believe me,

oblieed'                                                                "Ch. Darwin."

Though an evolutionist in philology, my father, who,

of course, made no claim to be a biologist, never fully

accepted the Darwinian theory of evolution in the ani

mal kingdom, inclining to the     belief that                                    thspeeocloiegsicuwmere"
immutable. But he imported       no " odium

into the discussion, and always regarded the question

of the evolution of species as an open one to be decided
                                  He thus writes --
on purely scientific  grounds.
   " Acknowledging               of the Descent of
                       his gift
I                                                                                                                                         Man,'

                   it

                                     I
                                                                '
                                                                                                                                       :
said that one insuperable difficulty in the acceptance

of his theories was, that from all had ever read about

Anthropology, and from all my studies in Comparative

Philology,  seemed to me indisputable that different

germs of language and different types of race were

traceable from the farthest prehistoric days. The argu

ment has, since then, been indefinitely strengthened by

the discovery of the earliest known skulls and remains

of primeval races, which show that, even in those im

measurably distant days, there were higher and lower

types of humanity. Mr. Darwin admitted the fact, but
                                                                      --
ma"deYtohuisavreeryarsgturiinkigngfroamnswtheer
'                                                                     last page  of  a  volume                                            of

                   of

                                                    .'
                                                                     :
many thousands pages,
                 HARROW DAYS                                             109

"When Darwin died, I happened to see Professor

Huxley and Mr. W. Spottiswoode in deep and earnest

conversation at the Athenaeum. I asked them why no

memorial had been sent to the Dean of Westminster,

requesting that one who had been an honour to his age
should be buried in the great historic Abbey. ' There

is nothing which we should like so much,' said Professor
Huxley. ' Nothing would be more fitting ; it is the sub

ject on which we were talking. But we did not mean to

make the request, for we felt sure it would be refused.'
I replied, with a smile, ' that we clergy were not all so
                           '                            though I
bigoted  as  he  supposed     ;  and  that,                         had  no
authority to answer for the Dean, I felt no doubt that, if

a memorial were sent to him, the permission would be

accorded. I said that I would consult the Dean, and
Ilet them know at once. Leave was given. was asked

to be one of the     p--allS-bieraJr.erLsu, bbwoitchk,  nine men    of much
greater distinction                                      Professor   Huxley,

Mr. J. R. Lowell, Mr. A. R. Wallace, the Dukes of
Devonshire and Argyll, the late Earl of Derby, Sir J.
Hooker, and Mr. W. Spottiswoode ; and on the Sunday
evening I preached at the Nave Service the funeral
sermon of the great author of ' the Darwinian hypothe
sis.' Ecclesiasticism was offended ; but if what God

requires of us is ' to do justly, and to love mercy, and to

walk humbly with Him,' I would rather take my chance

in the future life with such a man as Charles Darwin,
than with many thousands who, saying, ' Lord, Lord,'

and wearing the broadest of phylacteries, show very

faint conceptions of honour, kindness, or the love of
truth, and are sadly to seek in the most elementary

Christian virtues."

   In his funeral sermon he thus spoke of Darwin : --
   " This man, on whom for years bigotry and ignorance
no LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

poured out their scorn, has been called a materialist. I

do not see in all his writings one trace of materialism.

I read in every line the healthy, noble, well-balanced

wonder of a spirit profoundly reverent, kindled into

deepest admiration for the works of God. . . . Calm

in the consciousness of integrity ; happy in sweetness

of home life ; profoundly modest ; utterly unselfish ; ex

quisitely genial ; manifesting, as his friend has said of
him, ' an intense and passionate honesty, by which all

his thoughts and actions were irradiated as by a central

fire,' -- Charles Darwin will take his place, side by side,

with Ray and Linnaeus ; with Newton and Pascal ; with
Herschel and Faraday, -- among those who have not

only served humanity by their genius, but have also

brightened its ideal by holy lives. . . . And because

these false antagonisms have been infinitely dangerous

to faith, over Darwin's grave let us once more assure

the students of science that, for us, the spirit of mediaeval

ecclesiasticism is dead. We desire the light. We believe

in the light. We press forward into the light. If need

be, let us perish in the light. But we know that in the

light we shall never perish. For to us God is light;
II
WanodrlCdh.'ri"st  and will be, to the end, the Light of the
                   is,                         '
                                            a
                                                         I
may here introduce fragment from " Men Have
Known," reminiscent of my father's friendship with
another great biologist, Thomas Huxley: --

   " continued to know and to meet Professor Huxley

for many years and on many occasions.          II  sometimes

met him in company with Mr. Matthew Arnold, and

nothing could be more delightful than the conversation

elicited by their contrasted individualities.      remember

walk which once took with them both through the
a

               I

pleasant grounds of Pain's Hill, where Mr. Arnold's
        HARROW DAYS                                         m

cottage was. He was asking Huxley whether he liked

going out to dinner parties, and the Professor answered
that as a rule he did not like it at all. ' Ah,' said Mr.

Arnold, ' I rather like it. It is rather nice to meet
people.' 'Oh yes,' replied Huxley, 'but we are not
                                             '
all  "  such everlasting  Cupids  as  you  !

        I sometimes had   very earnest and      delightful  conver

sations with Professor Huxley on religious' subjects, and

I always found him perfectly open-minded, reverent, and

candid. But in his case, as in the case of other eminent

men of science and literature, I found that his concep

tions as to what the clergy are bound to believe and

maintain were exceedingly wide of the mark. He

imagined that we are compelled to defend a great many

opinions, especially with reference to parts of the Old

Testament, which might possibly have represented the

views of a hundred years ago, but which are now repu

diated even by learned archbishops and bishops. When

I showed him that some difficulties and objections to

parts of the Christian creed which loomed large upon

his mind had no connection with the faith at all -- that

they    affected beliefs which had never been incorporated
into
        any catholic formula -- that some of the statements

which he impugned were the mere accretions of igno

rance, the errors of superstition, and the inventions of

erring system, he would listen indeed with sincere inter

Iest, and promise to consider the points of view which

had tried to explain, but which were wholly new to him.

I always fancied that he retained the notion that, while

what I urged might represent the views of a few of the

clergy, they were the reverse of the views of the many.

I failed, I fear, to convince him that Christianity is one

thing, and that current opinions about Christianity may

be quite another. But conversations with him left on
U2 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

my mind the deep impression that what many men dis
like is not in the least the doctrine and the revelation
of our Lord Jesus Christ, but something which has no
necessary connection with and sometimes mere
mummy painted in its guise."
                is                                                   a

                                      1

                                              it,
                                                          is
The range of my father's studies and the breadth of

his views further illustrated by the fact that about
this period, viz. in 867, he found time to write " Seekers
after God," a popular historical account of three great

heathen philosophers, Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus
Aurelius, " who amid infinite difficulties, and surrounded

by corrupt society, devoted themselves to the earnest
a

search after those truths which might best make their

lives 'beautiful before God.'"          " The                 Fall  of    Man,
   Two volumes of sermons, also,

and Other Sermons preached before the University of

Cambridge," 1867, and "The Witness of History to

Christ Five Sermons, being the Hulsean Lectures fora
1870," belong to the Harrow period, besides single ser
          :
mons, lectures, and articles, -- record which shows an
                                   a
                                                                       a
amazing power of work and concentration in man

who was all this time actively engaged in the onerous
duties of a schoolmaster, responsible not only for routine

teaching in school, but for private tuition, and the care
of house full of boys.

   In 1869 he was appointed an Honorary Chaplain to

the Queen, distinction to which very few men in the
                'a
position of Assistant Master at public school have
                                        a

                                               I
                                                                      '

                                                                    it,
                                                                                             :
                                                                                                     '
attained. He was promoted to be Chaplain-in-Ordinary

in 1873.            with  one  of  his  articles              for   " Smith's
                                                                    story --
   In connection
                                                                    Deluge
Dic"tionhaardy   of the Bible," he tells the following
I               been asked to write the article on

for Smith's Dictionary of the Bible.'                         wrote       but
            HARROW DAYS                                    113

took the views about the non-universality of the Deluge

which most inquirers now hold. The editor and pub

lishers, alarmed at this deviation from stereotyped opin

ion, postponed the insertion of the article, and in vol. i.
inserted, ' Deluge : see Flood.' But even when they
had got as far as ' Flood ' they had not made up their
minds, and said, ' Flood : see Noah.' My article was
consequently sacrificed ; for ' Noah ' had been already
assigned to the present Bishop of Worcester. Yet,

after all, Dr. Perowne (as he then was) came to much
the same conclusion as myself; for he wrote, 'that even
the language used with regard to the Flood itself --
strong as it undoubtedly is -- does not oblige us to sup

pose t/iat the Deluge was universal."

Unless we realise the extent to which current theo

logical opinion has been revolutionised in the last forty
years, -- a change which has been due in no small meas

ure to the  fearless advocacy  --of.itmiys  father and     a mere
handful of  men like-minded,                 difficult to   under

stand the storm of obloquy which the very mild rational

ism of Bishop Colenso excited in the early sixties. In

these days when the notorious Cape Town judgment

is forgotten, and when what was regarded as blasphe

mous heresy by our fathers has become a commonplace

article of belief for ourselves, it is not easy to appreciate

the courage required, a generation ago, to take up the

cudgels for this God-fearing and saintly Divine.
  I therefore insert here
                               some passages from my
father's " Reminiscences of      Bishop Colenso," which

throw an interesting light both on the Broad Church

views of the subject of this biography, and the tendency

of thought in the last generation : --

   " Indignant at the utterly shameful treatment which

he was receiving at all hands, and glad to show my
U4 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

humble sympathy with a noble-hearted man, conspicuous

for the ardent and fearless sincerity of his love of truth,

I wrote to ask him to stay with me at Harrow. He had

himself in former days been a Harrow Master, and he

intensely enjoyed one or two quiet and happy Sundays

with us. In those days, if a Bishop happened to be

present in Harrow School Chapel, it was the custom to

ask him to pronounce the benediction. Bishop Colenso

did so ; and will it be believed that numbers of letters

came from parents, objecting that their sons should be

blessed by one whom, in their utter ignorance of all the

merits of the questions involved, they chose, with great

injustice, to stigmatise as a heretic ! The burden of this

disagreeable correspondence fell, not on me but on the

Head-master; and consequently, when next the Bishop

wrote to offer himself for a Sunday, I had, with the

deepest   regret, to ask  him   to come  --onwhaichweeevke-dnawy einnt
stead.   The persecution   he  incurred

to the length of an impotent attempt to deprive him of

his bishopric, and to reduce him to the condition of a

pauper by robbing him of his income -- was as incredi

ble as it was infamous. I well remember his telling me

that he found it by no means easy to get servants ; and

that his laundress had actually declined to wash for him

any more, because by doing so she lost customers ! I re
member, too, that once when I had been preaching in a

large West End church, the Bishop invited me to his

house, and I walked out of the church with him, he
taking my arm. As his tall form was seen amid the

throng of worshippers, he was recognised as he left the

church, and I heard audible and awestruck whispers,
' He 's walking with Bishop Colenso ! ' He faced this

tornado of abuse, and these hurricanes of universal

anathema, with the calmest dignity. He never once
                                  HARROW DAYS                           115

lost his temper; he never returned so much as one

angry word to men who had heaped on him every

species of abuse and contempt, and of whom many were
incomparably his inferiors, not only in learning, but in

"Aevery grace.

         touch of humour helped him. He told me how,
once, seeing an English bishop at Euston Station, the

Bishop, to his great surprise, advanced most cordially
to meet him, and gave him a warm shake of the hand,

which Colenso as warmly returned. But, alas ! the next
moment the English prelate said, 'The Bishop of Cal
cut"ta',NIo,b' erleiepvleied?  '
                                  (or some    other see).
                                  Colenso, '  the Bishop   of  Natal.'  The

effect, he said, was electrical. The English bishop almost

ииииииrebounded with an ' Oh ! ' and left him with a much

alarmed and distant bow, as if after shaking hands with
him he needed a purifying bath.

               и
   " Bishops and ecclesiastics denounced and excom

municated him ; and others wrote epigrams like --

" There was a poor Bishop Colenso,

  Who counted from one up to ten, so
  That the writings Levitical
  He found were uncritical,

  And went out to tell the black men so.

Yet the Bishop of Natal had written, with utter self-

sacrifice, at the cost of all, for the sake of what he re

garded as the truth. When questioned about the literal
accuracy of parts of Scripture, which were perhaps
never meant to be literally understood, ' My heart,' he
says, ' answered in the words of the prophet, Shall a

man speak lies in the name of the Lord? I dare not do

so.' Future times will remember Bishop Colenso with
u6 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

honour and gratitude when the names of nineteen-

twentieths of his accusers have been buried in merciful

oblivion."

With characteristic generous impetuosity my father

threw himself into the work of organising a Colenso

defence fund, in connection with which the following

letters from Dr. Jex     Blake    and  from  Bishop  Colenso
himself are of interest
                         :--

                                       "Rcgby, Feb. 26, 1864.

" My dear Farrar : Do not be in such a hurry. I

came back from Oxford this afternoon, having spoken

to a good many men there about Colenso Appeal Fund.
I found no one, except Jowett, inclined to go in for the
Fund as at present started. I found
                                                 a good   many
people prepared to    "jointhein   an effort to  bring "  in the
interests of justice              Cape Town
                                                 trial before a

superior court. Speaking generally, people had a

distrust of Colenso, and were prepared to help him as

a victim but not as a champion. I hope that Spottis-

woode will be able either to get a more satisfactory

preamble to the present list altogether, or a separate

column for men who like myself wish to subscribe on

Ithe ground of protest against Cape Town verdict. Or

failing that, hope a separate list may be got up on

that basis : and that such a list may help Colenso, and

be a comfort to him.

   " Names are likely to be ' conspicuous by absence ' if
the movers of a Defence Fund omit to take into con

sideration the wishes of a large part of the few clerics

who at all sympathise with them ; and as regards

Temple himself, he would probably say that men must

not set up to be religious innovators who cannot stand

the burden of temporary isolation. He might also be
                    HARROW DAYS                                        117

inclined to add that few things so unbusiness-like in

their proceedings as the Colenso Defence Fund appears

at  "prYeoseuntmtuostbeg,ivfeindpetohpinlegs   go smoothly with them.
                                              time ; and a few names
                                                                       had

better not be paraded prematurely. Still less will it pay
to publish anonymous ' Priest of 41 years' standing.'

Please let Bowen see these few lines, as my work is in

arrears and I really have not time for a duplicate letter.
    "We
         shall  be  very  glad"  to see       you at Easter.
                                              sincerely,
                                 Yours

                                              "T.W.Jex Blake."

                                              "May 6, 1864.

    " My dear Farrar : I have been thinking that I had

better not accept the invitation to Harrow this year,
                                              I don't doubt that I
under present circumstances.

should have a friendly reception, perhaps even a hearty

one, from the school. But after the experience of last

year, some parents may feel very strongly on the sub
ject -- and it would be a pity to expose the school to

the danger of suffering from too close a connection with

me. Unless, therefore, you strongly urge the contrary,

I intend to decline Dr. Butler's invitation, if it comes.

                                   " Ever yours sincerely,

                                                 "M. Natal."

   In i860, at Easter-tide, and shortly after his sainted
mother's death, Frederic Farrar met and loved at first

sight a sweet and beautiful girl of nineteen, Lucy Mary,
third daughter of the late Mr. Frederic Cardew of the

East India Company's service. They were married
before the end of the year, and for forty-three years of
it,          n8 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                   love unbroken trod the path of wedded life in mutual
                   society, help, and comfort.

                      What my mother was as gracious hostess, sympathetic
                  counsellor, and affectionate friend, old Harrovians, old
                   Marlburians, Westminster parishioners, and dwellers in
                   Canterbury who loved and almost idolised her, have
                  testified ; of her virtues as mistress and ideal housewife,
                   Cooper and Frances who died in our service, Nana and
                  Gauron who are still with us, and other old servants
                  who have served her with lifelong devotion could speak ;
                  what she has been and is as mother, we, her children,
                  who rise and call her blessed, know, but could never
                 fully express. What she was as a wife is a theme too
                  sacred for her son to handle in these pages, but those
                  who call to mind the image of my father in his home
                 life will ever see at his side the tender and gracious
                  figure of her whose adorning was the ornament of a
                  meek and quiet spirit, of a woman loving and amiable,
                  faithful and obedient to her husband ; in all quietness,
                  sobriety, and peace, a follower of holy and godly matrons.

                    Eight children were born during the Harrow period,
                 the two youngest, Percival and Ivor, being born at
                  Marlborough.

                   In 1868 my parents moved from a much smaller
                 house at Harrow to the Park, which my father thus
                 describes : --

                  "The Park had once been the seat of Lord North-

                  wick, and before it was built over as it now is, was a very

              beautiful place. It stood in its own grounds of thirty-

                  six acres, with fields and a home farm in the midst of

             them. A wooded walk, shady in the hottest summer

                 day, ran round full of speedwell, enchanter's night
                 shade, agrimony, and other wild plants. The Park cov
               ered one side of Harrow Hill. It commanded lovely

-
id

ia:.

in

a:

d
i

i

             '
HARROW DAYS  119

views and was adorned with some rather effective

modern-antique ruins. At the bottom of the hill was a

sheet of water, on which we placed some canoes and

some swans. There were nearly sixty Harrow boys in
our house, but they were separated from us in another

part of the building. It was a charming and healthy

home for children. The farm supplied them with eggs
and milk, and gave them plenty of amusement when
they went down to play with the swans, or the huge
mastiff, or the tame pigeons. The large kitchen garden
supplied the house abundantly with all kinds of fruit
and vegetables, and the vine in the hothouse was laden

with grapes."

   In this house my father was free to exercise that

simple but refined hospitality in which he always took
delight, making many friends, not only among his col
leagues, with all of whom he was on cordial, and with

many on intimate terms, but among the parents of his
boys and with many men eminent in literature, science,

and art.

    Such was my father in his Harrow days, a man be
loved by his boys, though they sometimes made fun of

his impetuous enthusiasms, honoured and trusted by the
parents who were glad and proud to confide their sons

to his care ; loved and honoured by his colleagues, who
were generously proud of his growing fame ; laborious
in acquiring and eager in imparting his growing store
of learning ; throwing himself with ardent and even well-
nigh reckless chivalry into all causes which make for
progress and increased breadth of thought ; displaying
at times a certain impatience, which old friends recall

with a regretful tenderness ; but animated always by a
fiery zeal for righteousness and a passionate hatred of
all that is mean or false or vile.
120 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

  From a large number of letters I have selected a few

illustrative of the Harrow period.

    Here is one from a parent : --

    " Dear Dr. Butler : I find from my boys that the
fact of Mr. Farrar's having succeeded to Mr. Harris's

house, etc., will in the natural course of things remove

Theobald   from his tuition.  at  the  idea,  and  so  I  find  is
           in utter despair
  " I am

Theobald.

  " It will be very, very good of you to allow Theobald

to be still his pupil and arrange with Mr. Farrar that

he shall keep him on.

  " I assure you, all my boys have the greatest possible

regard, esteem, respect, and affection for him, and he

possesses an influence over them which I feel it would

be very difficult for any one else to acquire, and Theo

bald having been so long his pupil ! Could not and
Ifwould you not make an exception in his favour ?
                                                          you

                                am certain from gratitude
    I

                           it

                             iIt,

                                                                                      it
are so good as to grant

will be an additional incentive to Theobald to be steady

at  his  work and to get on.
    "    am sure that you will
                                  kindly  remember     that my

three youngest boys have never had any other tutor but
Mr. Farrar, that was by your own appointment that

they had the privilege, and the event has proved how

judicious your arrangement was by the influence for

good which he has exercised over them, and by the real

affection  and  devotion they feel  for him.
   " With  my   kindest regards to  Mrs. Butler,
                " Believ"eYmoue,rs very sincere"lyA, . B."
                              HARROW DAYS                          121

   Another from the son of the above writer : --

                                                              " December 29th.

   "My dear Mr. Farrar: Hubert showed me your

letter you wrote to him about my going to the Univer
sity, -- that is, to Oxford ; Cambridge is simply a hole.

I am sure you think it so now. The worst of it is that I
shall have to swat, which as you know I don't like at
all. But then if I could make up my mind to swat,

and took a pretty good degree at Oxford, it would leave

me quite free, whereas if I went into the army I should
have to stick to it. You think I had better go to Ox
fdrfaoeisarneddc.yL,itoIsIatgh"taahivinane.nkdretIaoaoldlm, teiththaenewihwltloohlbiodselwaeyabteotsfaltisktkheoanotfnutcMhneeiltn;woenIhx'otsilneq.te"unaPrdJatuersrat,ot
as I was so ashamed of the place I took last quarter, and
   N"ilI dehsoppeeraMndrus.m    Farrar duce et auspice  Farrar.'
'                             Farrar and the children
                                                        are quite
                                                                   well,

and believe me ever           " Yours sincerely,

                                              "A. B."

   From a boy who had been expelled : --

   " My dear Mr. Farrar : Thank you very much
                                                        I have
for your kindness in          writing to   me.                   indeed
begun life very badly,                    mean          to turn  over a
                              but I now

new leaf.
   " It was very kind of you to try and take me back as
                                                    All
you have so often             before forgiven me.        my endeav
ours shall be that                                 good
                              I should turn out a        man, and I

sincerely trust that your kind hope of seeing me again
may be realised, and that you will find me changed
from a bad boy into a God-fearing man. Thank Mrs.
122 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Farrar for me for her kind message, and if she will

accept a sad farewell from me, as also yourself, I shall

feel gratified.  " Believe me
                            " Yours sorrowfully.

" P. S. I have received all my things, for which I
                 I left a small prayer-book in chapel.   If it
thank you.       you trouble, may I ask you to send it
will not give                                           me ? "

From the late Bishop of Durham : --  " Harrow.

  " My dear Farrar : I rejoice to see your volume

of sermons. They cannot but do good. Some I know ;

some I hope to know : and all are alike welcome. We

probably differ in some opinions and approach many

questions from different sides, but I should be unwilling

to think that we do not agree fully as to the scope of

life, and the strength of life ; and in that fellowship of

highest aspiration and faith all lesser differences are as

nothing. Almost every day makes me feel more keenly
that it is not the work that is seen that is most fruitful

and that all earthly measures fail in spiritual things, and

there is deep consolation in the thought.
   " With sincerest thanks for the volume, and every wish
for the full continuance of your great work among us,
                     " Ever yours most "trBu.lyF, . Westcott."

   From the late Dean of Llandaff : --

  " My dear Farrar : I must not insult you by com

pliments upon your sermon of yesterday : but neither

can I leave you without the expression of the deep debt
of gratitude which I feel myself to owe you for such a
                   HARROW DAYS                                123

noble effort for the good of souls. I cannot doubt that

it will be remembered by many, as it was listened to

with profound       attention     by  all.   when  you  will  publish
   " The time                         hope,
                   will come,      I

that sermon with others. Perhaps a sermon published

by itself does not possess the permattence of character

which one would desire for it : but I am sure that, when

the time comes for publishing a volume of sermons, you

will  not   find them passed by.
         "
            Ever,  m" Yyoduerasr   Farrar,
                                  truly and
                                             affectionately,
                                      "Charles T. Vaughan.

                                                          " Harrow, Monday.

  " Do not trouble yourself to write in answer. I only

send this, because it is a comfort sometimes to be assured

that one has not preached to inattentive or unsympa-
thising hearers."

From the present Master of Trinity : --

  " My dear Farrar : I must not let the Sunday

night quite pass without heartily thanking you for your
most valuable sermon.

  " I think we greatly wanted to have your main point
put before us, and I could not have wished to have it

put   more beautifully,  convincingly, and         solemnly.  to see
   "  We have both of    us lived too long         to expect

any very immediate or palpably extensive effects from

sermons. The listlessness of the Harrow boys will, I

fear, continue to be our thorn in the flesh as long as we

continue to labour together here. But I nevertheless
believe that your words will have touched many a con
science and that they will come back to such in listless
124 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

hours, partly here, partly in college rooms, partly in the

day"sItosf epermosfetsosimoneatlhlaifte.our material here illustrates most
strongly the ' How hardly shall they that have riches ' --
How hardly shall the sons of parents, the majority of

whom are probably men of easy means, learn to regard

exertion as at once a duty and a happiness I
   " Still there is a considerable remnant of non-idolaters
if not of heroic Abdiels.
the last Trinity May was     The seven                     Harrow   firsts in

                            a good sign                    -- not  less good

because it was not brilliant. S                            and P   are
working thoroughly hard there; so I fancy is P

and dear good C      .

"Here all the first seven are working at high pressure,

and apparently with great interest, unless it be possibly
the ill-adjusted A   . He broke down deplorably in

the Demosthenes last week, no less than twice.

  "This must read like a rambling letter, but I think

you may trace a certain unity running through it. God

bless you alwa"ysA, ffedecatironfariteenlyd. as ever,
                                    " H. Montagu Butler.

"Harrow, March 16, 1862, 11 p.m."

  A humorous letter     in  rhyme,  from                   his colleague,

E. H. Bradby: --

                                            Harrow, August 9, '61.

u Dear Farrar, I grieve to disquiet your rest,
     Or mar your ruricolar ease,

  But truth fairly spoken must always be best,
      Though it fail at the moment to please.

When you left your house had scaffold in front,
   And now could you see you'd find --
                    it,
                                       it,

                                                        a
                HARROW DAYS                                125

Of your wrath let the builder encounter the brunt --
  A scaffold just like it behind.

Thus for decapitation on both sides prepared,
   Is the victim put out of its pain?

No -- to mark execution the public have stared,
   And waited and clamoured in vain.

Can it be that you hold a reprieve still in view ?

  If not, as a matter of sense,

'Tis not fair to the house, to say nothing of you,
   To keep it so long in suspense.

I know from one corner the slates have been stript,
   And an angle of brick has arisen,

But if more has been done, may the writer be whipt,
   And his progeny pine in a prison.

Bricks and timber, 'tis certain, encumber the road,
   Bricks and timber encumber the door,

But I don't see them rise to their final abode,
   Or condense into storey and floor.

Some six or eight hands -- there were eight on to-day, --
   Rush hither and thither apace,

But time, the unceasing, works faster than they,

  And will beat them, I fear, in the race.

My fears may be vain, but I think it were well

That you sent to your landlord a letter
To ask
   And  how     things   prosper, your wishes to tell,
        cry, "  Finish,    the sooner the better."

This I know from experience, though honest and kind,

   He's a horse somewhat slow on the road,
And without being cruel you'll certainly find

   That his paces are helped by the goad.

For the rest, don't betray whence your knowledge arose,
   For I've matters on hand of my own ;

And should he be wroth, why the six weeks may close

   And leave me and my mansion undone.
126 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

       All Harrow now rests from its terminal whirl ;
          We have had but one birth since you parted,--

       Madame Ruault the mother, the offspring a girl ;
          The parents are not broken-hearted.

       Good-by ! We are happy, thank God, we are well ;

       They flourish, my wife and my daughter.
       I hope you, my friend, the same story can tell

       Of your wife, son, and self, at Freshwater.     E. H. B."

   To his friend, E. S. Beesly, on the birth of his eldest
son: --

                                                                         "May 19th.

" Dear Beesly : Many thanks for your kind lines

of congratulation. The pleasure of having a child is

indeed intense, it seems to open up in one's heart an

unfathomable fountain of love. Still it is yXvKvrriKpw
Iand brings its own anxieties. He is a pretty little boy --
but so delicate.  hope, indeed, that he will have you

for a kind friend when he grows up, if he does grow up,
as I trust he will. You must come and make his ac

quaintance this term, by the time Mrs. Farrar is well.

She and the child are doing well at present.

  " I was very glad to catch even a glimpse of Mr. Con-

greve  at  you"r   house.
                  Ever, my
                            dear  Beesly,
                            " Your affectionate friend,
                                           " F. W. Farrar."

   The above letter refers to the editor of these memoirs,
who has outgrown his youthful delicacy of constitution.

   The two next letters allude to a ridiculous canard as
to my father's Harrow experiences which seems to have
                    HARROW DAYS                       127

obtained some vogue at Marlborough and caused some
temporary annoyance.

                                              " Harrow, Nov. 6.

    " My dear Beesly : I am eternally obliged to Ilbert

for letting me know the preposterous scandal which

I hope I have now effectually knocked on the head, --
though not before I have been sufficiently annoyed ; for

like ill winds it spread even to Cambridge, where fortu

nately my friend, Cecil Monro, at once tore it up by

the roots.
    " Meanwhile I get happier every day ; fellows of all
Isorts

shall
    understand me better :      I have a tight        gIripam(wgheitcthing  cJi
    not soon relax) on the
                                turbulent, and

(I  hope) into the affections of the          better  ones, in spite
                                              sort^
of  certain Ifwd ffillowg "f the barer                Briefly, I am
                                                      I shall have
getting a footing here among the boys.

ample room and verge enough to work under a defective
system. The thing I feel most is want of sympathy.
Watson is my most genial friend here, and him I really
l/ikcea. n'tI
                do  wish you    were here to  flounder about a little:
               do   it half so  effectually.   But still, some things
I have done already and shall do more. I preach on
Sunday, and shall, if I can manage, rough them well.

They need it. They are too supercilious and absurd by

half. But unluckily one only preaches to the lower half

of the school. I was so sorry that Blake missed All

Souls.

   " Do come ; a day or two's warning will be ample, for

I could let you know then in the (unlikely) case of my

being unable to receive you. Why not next Saturday ?
Would a boy be a bore to bring (he must come in a hat,
caps being unknown here). Warren or Ilbert? but
follow your own taste and do just as you like about it
128 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

altogether. I am looking forward to seeing Bull. Why
                          if possible.
not"  come with him       how society     stagnates  here.  Conver
      You can't think

sation is unknown. Harrow forms the sole topic of

Harrow, the only good point being that scandal is never

talked  or hinted.        Oxenham         the other  day    and was
        met young
  "I

del"igYhoteud    with  him.                                 Heigh-
               should  see my daily list of punishments.

ho ! This kind of thing requires a brave, stout-hearted,

patient, strong man.
                       "
                          Ever  your  most      affectionate,

"                                                  " F. W. Farrar.

      You      told  me nothing about my missing goods."

                                                " Harrow, October 29.
" My dear Beesly : I am perpetually annoyed by let
ters from the boys at M               speaking as if I had been

subjected to         personal   violence   (!)  by the boys here, and
                     informed             had    been tied by a great
to-day I was                     that I
coat, and pelted with cinders ! ! I can't tell you the

ineffable disgust which those preposterous reports give

me; and as they are as grotesquely and groundlessly

and absolutely false, and as diametrically the reverse of

anything possible as they can be, I do wish, once for

all, that they could be authoritatively contradicted.

Whence such absurdly and gratuitously nonsensical

tittle-tattle can have originated I cannot even dream,

unless some Harrovian has been humbugging one of

the M          fellows.
" The idea ! I wonder whether you all think me
made of straw ? Likely that I should be roughly

handled, every one and all of whom instantly obey

my slightest order, and who are in as complete a state
                  HARROW DAYS                                     129

of subjection now as any form in Marlboro'. Never

was there a better exemplification of the story of the

three black crows. While I am absent some boys, tak

ing advantage of Mayor's ignorance of their names,

unscrew a desk and crack nuts, and from that Ilbert

tells me half the school believe that I have been gar-

roted ! a thing just as likely as that Scott and Tom-

kinson should be found some fine morning crucified

with their heads downward on the first eleven cricket

gro"uIndreablyly  their respective  forms.    about  this  if  I  had
                  should not have   troubled

not been bothered by rumours of it from all sides, and

am now quite tired of the absurdity ; so please if any

of the members of the Common Room share these hal

lucinations, will you kindly undeceive them ?

  "In fact I am getting on excellently; I declared war

with my form and have conquered. Now we get on

together as well as it is possible to do on a system

where boys only know masters as punishment machines,

-- a system whose trammels I am breaking more and
more every day. D6 come and see me if only to assure

the boys from ocular demonstration that my exhausted

frame can just survive the dangerous injuries it has

received.         " Yours eve"r, F. W. Farrar."

   Later, he writes in a more cheerful strain : --

                                                       "Harrow, Oct. 20.

   " Dear Beesly : I put off answering your letter,
hoping to do it more at length ; but I have never been
busier than now, and find it hopeless just at present. I

am to be ordained priest at a fortnight's notice!
130 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " All things here are very happy. I love my pupils

more and more, and my little house contains four of the

most promising boys in the school Will it all last ? I

don't deserve it. Vaughan favours me with really an
unusual share of kindness and confidence.

   " Many thanks for your kind congratulations. It is a

great relief to have got the Fellowship, as it makes one

feel more independent. I hope now to work a little at

bibliography.
   " Love to friends, and believe me ever

                               "Your affectionate friend,
                                              " F. W. Farrar.

   " Pray   tell Hanbury,   will you, that I   cannot   write at
           being steeped                               will write
present,                   in work, and tell  Cobb I
{don't forget) as soon as I possibly can."

                                     " Harrow, Feb. i.

   "  Dear     Beesly :    Sfcaesnteas--leedpiniinngbedr.oomTim; efir--e  gone
                                                                          1 2 on
out   and all  the people
Sunday night. Condition -- very cold feet, fatigue, and

general muddle-headedness ; in spite of which, as this

is my only chance of having leisure for a fortnight, I

must write now.

   " Your letter telling me how lax I have been convicts

me of gross selfishness, for which the extreme and ever

increasing heaviness of my engagements constitutes no

excuse. But indeed I had no notion how dilatory I had
been, hearing of you so constantly as I do, when not
from you; only believe me, my dear Beesly, nothing
would be a deeper pain to me than if this laziness of
mine (for I must call it by this name, though harsher
       I deserve) ever lost me your  friendship or made
than
you   think me cold or indifferent.  On the contrary, I
                        HARROW DAYS                                131

value it as       one   of my best       possessions. Once in      my
                  only                   lost a true friend ; and  one
life -- once            I think -- I
other has caused an estrangement to him on my part --
both cost me such bitter grief that I could not bear the

lessening of another's esteem. One mustn't be always

saying so : but as insincerity is certainly not one of

ray many faults, you will, I know, forgive and excuse

me.

  I" B stayed a day with me, and made himself very

agreeable : indeed, thought him much improved in all

ways. But then, you know, I always believed in him --

while you were one of those who considered him only a

spe"cFioouws lehrumisbumg.y guest at this moment with cartloads

of photographs which he displays all day and night.
They are from Rome, Florence, etc. Our tour was pre

eminently successful and delightful. The Harrow boy

who came with us I had always liked, but now I love

him tenfold, having been cheered by his ruddy face in

pe"rilWs oannd't  pleasures.  here  for  a  Sunday  this  term  ?  It is
                  you come

one's only chance of seeing you, and we could talk over

many things.

   " So do come here -- bringing a boy if you like, and
whom you like -- and you shall find a warm welcome from

                         "Your affectionate friend,
                                            " F. W. Farrar."

   Archdeacon Vesey thus describes one of the Harrow
holiday tours : --

  " I think I first became acquainted with your father

at Cambridge, shortly before he took his degree. When
132 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

II was curate of Great St. Mary's, at the end of 1855,

used to see him from time to time, when he came up

to Cambridge from Marlborough, and afterward from

Harrow ; but our real intimacy began when, during the

Harrow holidays at Christmas, 1856, he joined me at

Rome, where I was spending some weeks with another

Cambridge friend on my way to Sinai and Palestine.
Your father came out with a Harrow boy named Far-

quhar, and we had a delightful time visiting together

most of the points of interest which were new to both of

us. He had had a disagreeable voyage to Civita Vec-
chia, and had to put in at Elba on account of bad

weather ; he arrived at our apartment in the Piazza di
Spagna ' bleeding pauls,' as he expressed
                                           from
                                           it,
every pore,' from successive encounters with the Pon
tifical Dogma officials. You will readily imagine how'

his companionship more than doubled the pleasure of      !a

my visit, -- whether in our morning explorations in the

Forum, such as then was, with French soldiers over
   it

                              ;
looking the unwilling excavators as they wheeled their

barrows at a snail's pace or in the Coliseum, where

Franciscan monk was to be heard preaching at every

station, and the massive blocks of travertine were partly

hid with flowers and fern and other foliage, now, alas

removed when what the witty Americans called the'
   sandpapering process was carried out by the Italian
'  ;
                             ;

                                  '
government or in the delightful afternoon excursions

into the Campagna, to Tivoli, where we lunched al fresco

on New Year's Day or to the graves of Keats and

Shelley in the old Protestant cemetery hard by the pyra

mid of Caius Cestius. Wherever he went, his keen

power of observation, his enthusiasm, his fund of know

ledge and wealth of varied quotation made him the

most delightful fellow-traveller. Sometimes he ex-
"N
HARROW DAYS  133

pressed in verse the thoughts which our visits aroused.
For example, after an excursion to Hadrian's villa near

Tivoli he wrote the following lines, which once appeared

in print, but are not, I think, generally known : --

" Where the cypress upheaves its dark green leaves
     By the side of the glistening pine,

  Mark how the rose of the sunlight glows
     And the snow-fringed mountains shine.

  And round us arise to the wondering eyes
     The wrecks of imperial pride,

  As along the walls of the painted halls
     We are wandering side by side.

  And not one aisle of the royal pile
      But adds to the ruined scene,

  And ferns are waved, o'er the courtyards paved
     With mosses of red and green.

  Aye! the lightning hath shattered, the storm wind hath scattered,
     The palace-homes they built ;

  And the dark years fall like a funeral pall
     On the tale of their purple guilt.

 And the golden domes of their gorgeous homes
     Are crushed on the crumbling soil :

  For unless God hath given His blessing from Heaven,
     But lost is the builder's toil.
                                                   Rome, New Year's Day, 1857.

   " On one occasion we went together to the studio of

Overbeck, the well-known German artist. Among other
pictures, he showed us one which he called ' Marriage ' ;
and the way in which he treated the subject, in a series
of vignettes, will be apparent from the lines which your

father handed to me the next morning : --
134 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   '' ' Magnum sacramentum : dico autem de Christo et
ecclesia.

            " ' With a deepening impulse of love and prayer,
                   We gazed on the lines of the picture fair ;

                And the holy Painter stood at our side,
                 As we traced the tale of the gentle bride, --

                The joys and the sorrows of wedded life,
                   The glory of peace, and the shade of strife.

                  Now they are linked in the golden band,
                     Heart in heart and hand in hand ;

                And forth on the untried path they start
                   With eyes upraised and a beating heart.

                And they heed him not on the bridal morn,
                   The angel who scatters the boughs of thorn.

                  Mark how he hovers their path above,
                   The glittering spirit with looks of love.

                And the cross he bears thro1 the thickest glooms,
                   Is bathed in the rays of his silver plumes,

                And yet on the pair is the burden laid,
                   As they wearily toil thro' the checkered shade.

                Soon, 'neath the weight of the painful load,
                   They faint and fall on the steep hill road.

                But the Holy One shines at their side again,
                   To lighten the labour and heal the pain ;

                And with gladder steps and a calmer soul
                     They pass along to the heavenly goal.

                  But o'er them a seraph is leaning down
                   With a gleaming wing and a golden crown,

                And children come with their innocent eyes
                   And pure souls, white from the starry skies,

                As over the sunlit moss he throws
                     Violet and lily and wreathed rose.

                Thro' the sun and shade, thro' the joy and woe,
                     Dark or bright does the life-stream flow ;

                  But the cares are veiled, and the Cross is bless'd
                   As they near the gates of their final rest ;
             HARROW DAYS                               135

And they hear -- blest pair -- ere the path is trod
   The songs that welcome their souls to God.

The gates are alight with a million gems,
   And the flash of the rainbow diadems,

And the diamond swords and the helm of truth,
   And the flower-like curls, and the brows of youth,

And the robes of light, and the tongues of fire,
   And the golden harps of the seraph choir.

Keep, O Lord, in our memory green
The image fair of that saintly scene ;

Teach us, O Lord, that we ne'er repine,

Give us hearts that may rest on Thine,

And aye may the thoughts of our journey blend
With the glories that wait at its holy end.
                                         F. W. F. I 11
Rome, 1856.

   To my father's old friend and quondam chief, Dr.

Butler, the Master of Trinity, I am indebted for the

following tribute : --

                      "Trinity Lodge, Cambridge, Sept. 11, 1903.

   " My dear Reginald Farrar : In offering you these
few recollections of your dear Father, I am very sensible
of their utter inadequacy. It is only in the faintest way

that they recall either his beautiful youth at Trinity or

his brilliant services at Harrow. But, as you know, I

have been writing under physical difficulties, and the

publication of your Memoir would not bear delay. I

must trust and believe that the other records of your
Father's rich and beneficent career will be far more
fully and generously expressed.

                         " Believe me affectionately yours,

                                   " H. Montagu Butler.

   " My friendship with Frederic Farrar must have begun
in 1852 or 1853, when we were undergraduates at Trinity,
136 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

he in his second year of residence, I in my first. We

were both members of a small Shakespeare Society,
which met once a week in our several rooms to read a

play, the parts of which had been previously distributed.

In these delightful hours we came of course to know one

another very closely, and, half unconsciously, to take
measure of our respective gifts and tastes. Farrar was

greatly loved and admired by us all. Intellectually he
was conspicuous by his very wide reading in English
literature, notably in poetry and in the philosophical
writings of S. T. Coleridge. He came to Trinity from
King's College, London, and brought with him a pro
found love and reverence for F. D. Maurice, whose

lectures he had there attended, and a keen interest
in all the Christian social schemes which Maurice and

Charles Kingsley and others were at that time advo

cating.

   " Apart from this high mental culture, he impressed us
all by the singular purity and elevation of his whole
character, his fiery enthusiasm for every noble cause or
idea, his outspoken courage, his passionate scorn for
injustice, for concealment of convictions, for anything
that he held to be mean and low.

   " His special gift of eloquence was occasionally, but not
very frequently, exercised at the Union. Whenever he
spoke, he was listened to with marked respect as not
only a good speaker, but as an orator of quite exceptional
powers; but perhaps he was somewhat too much in

earnest for so mercurial an assembly. A lighter touch,

with a little more playfulness and humour, might have

been more effective.

  I" Once, remember, he electrified us all by a crush

ing reply to some mosquito of a critic who had dared
almost to impeach the unfortunate members of the
                 HARROW DAYS  137

Library Committee. These officers had been elected

some three weeks before by universal suffrage to select
new books for the Term's consumption. And now

heard themselves denounced as a narrow, heartless

etc., oligarchy because they had not included in their
choice a few silly books which had been ' recom
mended ' by some irresponsible advisers. Farrar, as
one of the ' oligarchs,' ' came down upon ' this con

spirator with all his thunders. He treated him as a

Catiline or a Borgia. We were somewhat amused, but

we loved him all the better for his naivete" and his

fer"voHuirs. winning the Chancellor's medal for an English

poem on the Search for Sir John Franklin gave great

pleasure to us all. It was not a commonplace prize ex
ercise. It was a real poem, marked by deep feeling

and rare wealth of language, and it was felt that the

right man had been crowned.

"When, in 1854, he became Fourth Classic in a very

strong year, and was summoned by Dr. Cotton to assist

him in his task of revivifying Marlborough College, his
departure from us was keenly felt. He had been truly
a 'burning and a shining light.' His friendship had been

a delight, his example a privilege, his fine, rich, vehement

nature an inspiration. When, in October, 1856, he be
came a Fellow of Trinity, we all rejoiced with him. The

tradition still lives, I believe it to be well founded, that

Dr. Whewell, our great Master, was especially pleased

with his philosophical and metaphysical paper. It

showed very extensive reading and keen interest in

suc"hItsuisbjnecotts.for me to follow Farrar to Marlborough, and

to speak of the  tfoewsahya,pwpyhayteaIrsknoof whisfroampprDern.ticCeosthtoipn
there. Enough
138 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

himself, that the Master was proud of his young and
brilliant colleague, that he felt the value of his influ
ence over the Sixth Form, and that he became deeply
attached to him as a friend.

    " Cotton and Dr. Vaughan had been on the most affec
tionate terms of friendship ever since their undergradu
ate days at Trinity, and it was doubtless through Cotton's
reluctant mediation that Vaughan, in 1855, invited the
young Trinity Fellow to join his distinguished staff at

Harrow -- a staff which at that time included the names
of Harris, Steel, Rendall, Westcott, H. W. Watson,
all, like the Head-master himself, past or present Fel
lows of the same College. E. E. Bowen was soon to

follow.

  " I must not attempt to give more than the barest

sketch of Farrar's services to Harrow during the re
maining years of Dr. Vaughan's head-mastership and
the first eleven years of my own. His position was
from the first, and throughout, original and peculiar.
He was all along the companion of his boys, whether in
form, or in the house, or in games or walks. He had
no fears of compromising his dignity by such familiarity.
Some boys no doubt took advantage of his confidence
and his informalities, but he soon became loved and
looked up to as well as admired. His teaching was
strangely fresh and inspiring. On the one hand, he
drew up formal printed cards to impress upon young
learners the simple facts of accidence and the simpler
rules of syntax. On the other hand, he was always
drawing forth, from the stores of his really wonderful
memory, which we had known so well at Cambridge,
noble and memorable quotations from the poets, es
pecially his grand favourite Milton. By this 'double
action ' he sought to make his pupils feel that if grammar

                                                              I
                   HARROW DAYS                                     139

was the gateway to knowledge, literature and human

nature were   all  the        while its temple.    and  literature, he
   " Devoted       he         was to scholarship
               as

was also the founder of our Natural History Society.

Himself a considerable botanist, he inspired a number

of boys, not all of them classics or mathematicians, with

a desire to explore the secrets of nature, and especially
to make careful collections of flowers gathered during

ha"ppHyiswaglrkasduinaltlyhe   neighbourhood of    Harrow.    distin
                              increasing intimacy   with men

guished in science and literature was pleasantly placed

at our service. It was to him that we owed the first

lectures of Tyndall on sound, of Huxley on the anatomy
of the lobster, of Ruskin on minerals. In short, he
helped to ' enlarge our intercourse ' with the wider intel

lectual  world  outside our   own  borders.             to  close  this
         would  be wrong,     and  even absurd,
  " It

brief notice without a few words on his school sermons.

His position as a great preacher is part of the history

of the Church of England during the last thirty-five

years of the nineteenth century. I suppose there is

scarcely a cathedral or a university pulpit or a school

chapel in which his voice has not been heard, and he

rarely refused a request from a brother clergyman in

either town or village. A man who has preached so con

stantly, so ubiquitously, and to such varied audiences,

has left a definite impress on those who either heard or

read his words. To define that impress is no part of

my task, save so far as it concerns Harrow. There his

position was unique. Our custom was that the clerical

assistant masters preached in turn at the morning ser

vice in the school chapel. Farrar's turn was eagerly

expected both by the boys and by the parents of our

home-boarders. There was always great pressure to
140 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

obtain admission to the chapel on the Sundays on which

he preached. Needless to add, he was listened to with

the most breathless attention. To say that the solemn

cadences of his fine, rich voice were weighted with the

most intense earnestness is the language of common

place, but it is at least true. He seemed always to have

before him two haunting visions, the one of boyish inno

cence, the other of boyish wickedness. If to some of us

he appeared sometimes to see these two great extremes

out of their due proportion, and to be less clear-sighted

as to the wide region which lies between them, we were

none the less grateful for his loving sympathy with the

one and his solemn warnings to the other. Hundreds
of Harrow boys, I cannot doubt
                                it,  will look back upon

his words from the chapel pulpit -- his voice, his look,
his whole personality -- as among the chief blessings of

their school life."
CHAPTER VII

HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH

   In i 87 i my father was appointed Head-master of

Marlborough on perhaps the strongest testimonials ever

given for a similar candidature. Among others, Profes

sor Max Miiller, his antagonist in the lists of philology,
                                                          he "would add lustre to any
tgshcehanoteorhloeuinswlyEonutgledlsatnibfideed""  that   his old tutor Maurice declared
                                                   ; and
                                                   well   able to combine the culture of

other days with the special wisdom of ours."

   It was a great delight to him to return to Marlborough,

his first love, and the years spent here were in some

respects the happiest and most unclouded of his life.

   In 1867 he had been a candidate for the head-master
ship of Haileybury, which was given to one of his Har
row colleagues, Dr. Bradby. That more unqualified

support was not accorded to him on this occasion is due

in part to regretful doubts inspired by the perhaps some

what indiscriminate vigour of his onslaught upon the

system of classical education, and by fears on the part of

old and dear friends that his characteristic impetuosity

might imply a certain lack of judicial balance.

This defeat was, naturally, a keenly felt disappoint
ment at the time, but better things were in store for

him ; and when he stood for Marlborough his reputation

not only as a brilliant scholar, preacher, and man of

letters, but as a leader of men and a schoolmaster of ex

                                                          141
142 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

ceptional strength of character, was so fully established

that his claims could no longer be resisted.

    During Farrar's mastership, assisted as he was by an
exceptionally able staff of colleagues who served under
him with loyal and heart-whole devotion, Marlborough
rose to the very zenith of her great reputation.

   The story of those days is so well told by others in

the following pages that I need add but little to it. I

will merely insert, from a chart of the school history, a
brief list of the principal organic changes inaugurated
during Farrar's mastership, though some of them had
been projected and prepared in the reign of the great

and good head-master who preceded him, Dr. Bradley,

the late Dean of Westminster : --

1871.  Improvements in the Drainage.
       Purchase of Freehold.
1872.
1873.  Science Teaching commenced (Mr. Rodwell, Science Mas
1873.     ter).

       The "New Houses," i.e. Littlefield and Cotton House.
       Bradleian.

       Masters' Retirement Fund.
       Decoration of Chapel, conversion of Covered Playground to

          Gymnasium during this Period.

   In  the   actual  "eBxeucrusatiro,n"   of these schemes the lion's
             to the                      named, loved, and revered by
share  fell

every generation of Marlburians to the present day, my

father's former pupil, colleague at Marlborough, son-in-

law later, and lifelong friend, the Rev. John Shearm
Thomas (died September 26, 1897).
   To the Marlborough                    poef rsioedrmobneslo, n"g,ThbeesSidileesnceotahnedr
publications, two volumes
Voices of God," 1874, and " In the Days of thy Youth,"

1 876, preached in Marlborough Chapel. None who heard

those sermons can wholly forget the overpowering in
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 143

tensity of conviction, or the fiery eloquence with which

the master drove home to his boys the great truths

of righteousness. I was a lad of fifteen when I heard

those sermons preached, but there still rings in my ears

tlihneespa--ssionate force with which my father delivered  the

              How like a younker or a prodigal
              The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,

Hugged and embraced by the strumpet wind.
How like a prodigal doth she return,

With over-weathered ribs and ragged sails,

Lean, rent, and beggared by the strumpet wind.

   These sermons    will illustrate  one   of his strongest
characteristics as  a preacher, --   the  power, namely, of

riveting great moral truths upon the mind by apt and

striking quotations from the poets, which lingered in

Ithe memory even after the sermon itself was forgotten.

      have given already one extract from " In the Days
of thy Youth," and must resist the temptation to add

others. Of his powers and gifts as a preacher I shall
speak again ; here I will only say that in force and direct

ness of appeal, as well as in beauty of language and

imagery, these sermons to boys revealed the preacher

at his best.

   The following letter serves to illustrate the effect the
sermons produced in, at least, one instance : --

                              " Private

                                    "The College, Marlborough.

  " A Marlborough boy desires to express his greatest

gratitude and thanks to Mr. Farrar, for a sermon which,
he trusts, has done him more good, and brought him
nearer heaven, than anything he ever heard in his life.

                                  " A Marlborough Boy."
144 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

g" iMvMienymg ofaartipahliescrt'usorfedCeoysfcrtrihlipisLtiyobtnetlooonvfedFMahraroralmbro,e"ro: m--ugahy,  --  from    the
                                                                                                                quoted    as
                                                                                                            be

" The Lodge at Marlborough College was as charming

a home as children could possibly have enjoyed. The

grounds of the college, the master's garden, the wilder

ness, the bathing-pool, the mound, the playground, were
delightful places for their walks and games. The green

downs with their copses and fresh breezy air were close

at hand, and in spring they were a mass of primroses,

wild anemones, and violets. When the children went

to the west woods they could get baskets full of daffodils.

The forest with its deer, and its lovely undulations, and

its green glades and avenues and noble trees was close

at hand. The garden of the Lodge itself was full of

roses. It had a lawn-tennis ground and a held, and the

river Kennet flowed at the bottom of the kitchen garden.

The schoolroom and nurseries were in a separate part of

a beautiful and convenient house. Our carriage and

pony-carriage were in constant request for picnics to Mar-

tinsell and other lovely places. We also had two pretty

ponies, called Tommy and Ruksh, for the children to
ride. They had a multitude of pets. Mr. Lucas had

given us a tame fawn, which followed us about the gar
den. He had also given us some rare and beautiful

fowls, and we had plenty of poultry. We brought a

tame sea-gull from Swanage, which after a time flew
away. We had a dove-cot full of white pigeons, which

were perfectly tame, and would settle in crowds on the

sill of the nursery window and eat from the children's

han"dTsh. e children grew up amid the fresh young life of a

great English school in the country. They were sur

rounded by its deep and varied interests, and had their

^^v
      HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 145

little share in its constant festivals. Many a happy
afternoon they enjoyed in the forest and on the downs
with boys of the school. Some of the boys, who in one
way or other were known to us, had the run of the house,
and came in and out almost as they liked. Among them
were Hallam Tennyson, Everett Millais, Philip Burne-
Jones, and Leslie Norris. Our guests were numerous,

and some of them were distinguished and well-known

men. Sir J. E. Millais, Mr. E. Burne-Jones, the Bishops
of Salisbury and Limerick, Mr. E. Normand Lockyer,
Sir Henry Thompson, Sir Edwin Arnold, Judge Thomas

Hughes, Canon Rowsell, Dr. Abbott, Bishop Creighton,

and many others came to stay with us. It was an

advantage to the children to meet such men, and they
received abundance of kindly notice both from guests

and from the masters and boys of the college. Mr.
F. Storr and Canon Bell, who were then assistant

masters, were great friends with the children. The

former was constantly in the schoolroom, and once dis
arranged the machinery of the Swiss cuckoo clock which
Mrs. Orford Holte had given to Maud, and which she

still has with her in Tasmania, by hanging one of the
dolls to the chains. Cyril, with his bright temperament,

was always a special favourite. At that time he had fixed

on the army as his future destination, and when asked

what he meant to be, he used to answer stoutly that he
should be " Captain Farrar of the Royal Horse Guards,

b'oo" [sc. "Blue"].

Mr. P. E. Thompson, one of his colleagues, contributes
                               :--
the"  following reminiscences               of  paying  my
                               opportunity
      I am very glad of the

tribute of respect to my old friend and former chief at

Marlborough, the late Dean of Canterbury.
   146 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " My earliest recollection of Farrar (the surname alone
                                          aI dwdaitsioan)stiusdoenf thimat
   comes naturally, and  surely needs no
   as an undergraduate   at Cambridge.

   King's College, London, which he had left two or three
   years before, covered with honours. He came to take
   part in our Debating Society. We regarded his coming

   with great interest, for, naturally, to us he was a hero who

   at Cambridge was more than fulfilling our expectations.

   I can recall his appearance vividly. He was still some

   what boyish in figure, slim, with fairly thick, dark brown

   hair, and without that white complexion which was so

   marked in later years. His manner was simple and

   pleasant, without the sense of complete sureness, and

   his speech ready but not measured. A modest, able,

   delightful young fellow, you would have said. He was

   a strong liberal in politics, and in a good-humoured way,

   .without any bitterness or sarcasm, rallied the conserva

   tive proposer of the motion debated, sketching from

   the premisses of his speech the probable career which

   awaited him. My next reminiscence is about a year

   later, when Farrar had taken his degree. I was talk

   ing with our classical professor, the late Archdeacon
   Browne. ' Farrar was here yesterday,' he said to me ;

   ' he is doing a very stupid thing. With his degree and

   university distinctions he might make sure of his fel
   lowship and work at Trinity. He ought to stay up at

   Cambridge ; instead of this he is going to Marlborough,

   a new school with a bad reputation, so far as anything
   is known of it.' This was at the beginning of Cotton's

   mastership, when that truly remarkable man, whom
   Farrar always held in deep reverence, was gathering

   about him a band of exceptionally able young Oxford

   and Cambridge men, attracted by no prospect of mate

   rial advantage, but animated solely with the enthusiasm,

'
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 147

which his own magnetic character inspired, for creating
a great public school after an unfortunate start. Of
that band of men, among whom Farrar was conspicuous,

who cast their bread upon the waters, I have often

thought in the words of the divine paradox, ' He that

loseth his life shall save it.' When I was at Oxford I

remember a young Marlborough scholar coming up to
my own college, full of admiration and affection for the
brilliant young Cambridge man who threw himself heart
and soul into the work of the Sixth, and the life and
thoughts of the whole school.

  "Years passed. I had gone to Marlborough in 1859.

Farrar, who in 1855 had been appointed to a mastership
at Harrow by Dr. Vaughan, had made himself widely
known as teacher, educationalist, preacher, philologist,
and writer of fiction. He was to come and preach our

Founder's Day sermon at Marlborough. This was, I
think, in 1866. I had not seen him for thirteen years,

and naturally my curiosity and interest were deeply

roused. As he walked up the College Chapel my sur

prise at the change which had come over him was ex
treme. The boyish undergraduate of 1853 had become,
speaking unchronologically, the Dr., or the Canon Far
rar of middle life. His form was ampler, his carriage
more erect, his movements deliberate and stately, the
hair darker and thinner, the complexion whiter. The
rich, mellow voice rolled out its measured periods of
sustained and controlled oratory. The sermon produced
a powerful effect on the Sixth. Our Founder's Day is

the festival of St. Michael and All Angels. The angels

of God were the crises in human life which come as his

me"ssFeonuger rsm. ore years had passed, and Bradley was leav

ing Marlborough for Oxford. It was no secret that
148 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Farrar had always cherished the hope of becoming one
Iday Master of Marlborough. He had never lost his
first love.  remember how at a school dinner, a dis

tinguished Harrow master, in speaking of Farrar, who

was present, humorously reminded him that all through
his Harrow career he had never lost an opportunity of

assuring the Harrow people of the far greater impor

tance and interest of Marlborough. The great Brad-

leian period had drawn to a close. The brilliant sunset

was obscured by some clouds of temporary anxiety.

There had been one or two bad bouts of scarlatina, and

doubts had naturally risen about the sanitary arrange

ments of the school. But if the misfortune had occurred

in Bradley's time, it was he, with the cooperation of the

bursar, the late Rev. J. S. Thomas, the right-hand man

of three successive masters, who provided the remedy.
The sanitary arrangements were thoroughly overhauled

and rectified. The overcrowded college dormitories

were to be relieved by building two large boarding-

houses, which were at once commenced. Of Bradley,

confessedly the greatest head-master of his own day,

no one who had the happiness of serving under him can

speak without emotion, admiration, and affection. At

this juncture Farrar came as head-master, with a splen

did reputation and a splendid new connection. Testi
monials will always be read with some critical hesitation ;

but there was no mistaking the unreserved terms in which

the present Master of Trinity, the late Bishop Lightfoot,
Max Miiller, and F. D. Maurice his revered teacher at

King's College, spoke of him. His connection was as

large as it was varied, comprising men of the greatest

eminence in art, science, literature, and commerce.

Such a reputation, and such a connection rapidly dis

pelled the anxiety which was felt at the time by the
      HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 149

friends of the school; and if Marlburians cherish, as

they ever will cherish, the memory of Bradley with

imperishable gratitude, they will also feel the deepest

gratitude to Farrar for this alone, that his coming

helped the school at what must be regarded as a crisis

in its history. None was more sensible of this great

service than Bradley, most generous of men, and the

able   bursar   ;  none more ready to recognise it.
   "  Farrar's     delight on coming back to Marlborough
                                                          as

head-master was quite touching. He was interested

in everything : the teaching of the Sixth, the reviewing

of the forms, the games, the various institutions, such as

the Rifle Corps, the Natural History Society, parent of

all similar school institutions (he was himself a keen

Iamateur botanist), the music, and above all the preach

ing. Well do remember his first sermon. He took
         text, ' What                                  '  He
as  his                mean  ye  by  this  service  ?

preached without notes, and I always regretted that he

afterwards abandoned ex tempore preaching, for his style

was less, rather than more, rhetorical than in his written

sermons, and arrested attention in a most remarkable

manner. 'This service' of the College Chapel was

meant to be no mechanical roll-call, but the source of

spiritual life to the school. Such, indeed, had always

been the ideal, and still is the ideal, of successive mas

ters ; but the ideal was admirably put. Equally well

can I recall his first Prize Day gathering. On these

occasions he was at his greatest ; he was quite supreme.

The freehold of the college property had been secured

shortly before his coming, after protracted negotiations.

Standing upright before the table in the presence of

the school and the guests, in heroic vein, the mock ele

ment of which was admirably concealed, he rolled out
this sentence, ' From the Pavilion to the Bowling Green
ISO LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

and the Kennet, from the Bathing-place to the London
Road -- we are monarchs of all we
                                       survey.'   in  him,  but
   " Humour was not a conspicuous        quality

he keenly enjoyed a sally, even when good temperedly

directed against himself, and sometimes displayed it very
effectively. On that morning he had said to me, ' Tell

me if there is anything which I ought not to omit.'
' Don't forget Mr. Sellick,' I replied. For the benefit of
non-Marlburians I must briefly describe the indescribable
and invaluable Mr. Sellick. He served Marlborough
faithfully for some forty years as ' extra master,' being

a. factotum whose place no one has since taken or could
take. He was responsible for getting and issuing

school books, pens, ink, and paper, for organising the

coming and going of the boys, for issuing pocket money,

journey money, and for a host of things too long to be
recorded here. He was a very thick-set man, with a

broad ruddy face, quick eyes, and a rich Devonshire

lingo, in which he uttered judgments of men and things

quite impartially with unapproachable pithiness. It was

he who managed all the arrangements for the upper

school on Prize Day, including the disposition of the

many prizes ready to the hand of the master. Bradley's
allusion to Mr. Sellick at the end of the prize-giving

was always keenly looked forward to, for Mr. Sellick

was universally loved, feared, and enjoyed. The mo
ment came. The master appeared to have no more to
                            he recommenced, ' And now
say, when   after  a pause  perform, -- a duty which un
            more   duty to
I have one

performed would mar this great gathering with a sense

of incompleteness.' Another pause. 'That duty is

to thank   publicly that  Prince of    Organisers,    Mr. Sel
           The rest was   lost in the  thunders of    applause
lick -- '

awakened, while Mr. Sellick's rubicund face and twin
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 151

kling eyes sank like a setting sun behind the screen of

his ample arms.

   " Farrar came with a strong sense of the continuity of
Marlborough traditions, with deep reverence for his
predecessors, but at the same time with that most valu
able of gifts in a new head-master, the ' fresh eye.'
He introduced many smaller alterations, such as regu
lations for greater neatness and uniformity of dress,
rules concerning examinations, and other things which
need not be noticed specially. Some of these new regu
lations were perhaps a little resented by the laudatores

temporis acti, but they were undoubted improvements and

justified by success. Farrar unquestionably did some
thing or much to cultivate the manners of the Marl
borough boy, which were certainly a little 'to seek,'
and to polish his exterior; but he had no desire to

impair their Wiltshire simplicity.
   " What then were his chief characteristics as teacher

and head-master, as ruler of boys, and president of his
colleagues ? Farrar was an omnivorous and a rapid
reader, with a prodigious memory. He had done great
things by his own efforts and he expected great things
from others. There are two distinct methods of teach

ing, the minute and the wide, the intensive and the
extensive. Milton's ideal was a combination of the two.

It is futile to discuss their comparative merits ; a good
teacher will choose the one for which he feels himself

best fitted. Bradley's method was the minute. ' I only

got through seven lines of Vergil this morning,' he said
to me one day ; this being of course an extreme case.
To suppose that a pupil trained in the intensive method
may not develop into the wide and extensive reader, or
that one whose lessons cover wide stretches of reading
may not in time use his large experience for analysis
152 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

and minute criticism, is refuted by facts. Farrar be

lieved in wide reading as a means both to culture and

accuracy. Not long ago I received a letter from an old
boy of mine who had been under Farrar in the Sixth.

He had been ranching for many years in the wilds of

Texas. He had never lost a love for English literature

with which Farrar had infected him, indeed he has now

a finer taste and a fuller knowledge of English authors

than most cultivated and well-read men. We have often
exchanged notes on books. In that letter, at the end

of a. list of works which he recommended, he added

Farrar's favourite motto, Lege, lege, aliquid haerebit.

When another very     able boy              in my house was going up
for his scholarship,                         him what classical books
                      I asked
and what English authors he had read. I was fairly
amazed with the ground he had covered. An unseen

passage or a' subject for an essay could scarcely come
amiss to him. He was far and away first in that schol

arship examination. Undoubtedly, Farrar's power of

stimulating able and susceptible boys to wide reading

on "thFeairrraorwwnaasccaonunotptwimasistvewriythrermegaarkradblteo. boys in some
but not in all respects. He drove his Sixth in most mat

ters with a loose rein. There was in his period a re

markably able succession of boys, and not only able but

original in mind and independent in character. A few

can only be described as eccentric in the true sense of

the term and -- well, a bit impish. With some there

was a  tIenhdaevnecyfotlloowv/e8/dm?   for  the time.   But  only for the
time.                                 the   career of  most  or all, and,
knowing most of them personally, I can truthfully say

they have become useful, upright, honourable men, most

in  good,  some in distinguished positions.
    " But  it must not be supposed that he
                                                       was   lax  or  soft
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 153

where sternness was demanded. Where a question of

morals was concerned, no head-master could be more

prompt and severe. He consoled and encouraged the

offender, but his first consideration was the welfare of

the community. Similarly, in dealing with a breach
of manners or discipline. In the upper school once a

chorus of distinguished amateurs entertained the school

on the evening of a cricket match. Some thoughtless

louts at the back so far forgot themselves as to interrupt

the singers with silly imitations. In an instant the master

was on his feet. Facing the claque, with flashing eyes

and imperious voice, he asked them if they imagined that
he would tolerate such behaviour. Did they know what

was due to the performers, to their guests, to themselves

as members of the school, that they dared indulge in

manners which would disgrace a twentieth-rate theatre ?

The effect was electric. Boys can understand and ap

plaud a display of instant and fearless authority.

   "Of his masters, again, Farrar expected much, -- rightly
much ; sometimes, I think, too much in the way of read

ing. He was annoyed when there were signs that a

form master's teaching was not abreast of the latest

scholarship. He was once positively indignant, when

examining the lowest form of the upper school in Greek

accidence, to find that the boys had not even an elemen

tary knowledge of  the  influence of the lost letter  Jod on
Greek inflection.  So
                        indignant was he that I       almost
expected him to exclaim with Longfellow's Rabbi : --

" So surely as the letter Jod

  Once spake and cried aloud to God,

So surely shalt thou feel the rod,
   And punished shalt thou be.

This is an amusing and an extreme case, at which he
would have laughed against himself by and by. But,
154 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

as with boys, so with masters, Farrar's stimulating effect

was great. I can only say for myself that during the
five and a half years of his mastership I read far more
widely than I had ever read before. One could not

keep up with him, but one could keep him in sight.

Here I should like to tell a favourite story of mine at
the risk of being personal, for it shows Farrar at his

best. At the end of the holidays he asked me what I

was going to read with my form next term. ' Some

of the Iliad,' I replied. ' Have you read Paley's pref

ace ? ' he inquired. Paley's edition had just been pub

lished. Well, I had read it very carefully, for I intended
to discuss it with my boys. ' I consider,' the master

continued, 'that Paley completely proves his case in all
the three points which he raises.' I did not think so,
but purposely said little or nothing, for I anticipated
Iwhat would come.
                   had a very sharp set of boys that

term, and from time to time examined Paley's hypotheses,

giving my reasons for disagreement. In due time the

form went in for review. Review over, the head boy

came to me in high feather. Something, I saw, was in
the wind. 'Awful sport, sir,' he exclaimed. 'What
Ido

out

he
not
so?ayn"yosuP, ae"lmteBcye.e."acnau?""s'eDN, oons,ai'srts,kireye,dotn.cuo."t,"h' iOnwk"he,Otchthaha,letlePdIamlsoeaeuysett.,ei"sr  trotted us

                                                                                                                                  r"igNhto,  when
                                                                                                                                             ! why

                                                                                                                                  the master

said, and burst out laughing, "your form master has

been at you. We'll drop the subject." ' I am very fond

of this incident, for it shows Farrar's native magnanimity.

A smaller-minded head-master would have resented the

appearance of being bearded by an assistant master
through his form. Not so Farrar ; he saw the fun of

the thing, and was delighted to find that a teacher could

read and think for himself. Needless to add that we
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 155

were always on the best of terms or this would not have

occurred. I could give many instances of his generosity
of mind. He may sometimes have been impatient and

even hasty. He may have been in the right or in the
wrong, but a misunderstanding was impossible if you
went the proper way to work. You had only to go to

him, to treat him fairly, and he would at once meet you
                                                   I once well remember.
wit"hTohpeenneaarrmers,yoliutegraoltlytosho,ima,s
                                                   the better you understood

him, the more you liked him, honoured him, and loved

him. Can more be said ? To some he appeared stately
and unapproachable. The truth is that Farrar was

naturally a shy man, not at ease in all company, with
out the gift of smali talk. The mistake was to treat

him as unapproachable. Treat him as a friend, a thing

of flesh and blood, even poke good-humoured fun at him,

and he gave way in a moment, becoming brother with

brother. The following authentic story shows how he
'Iappeared to a small boy who regarded him as nil mor-

tale: was never in the Sixth,' he explained, 'but Dr.
Farrar came to review the lower school form in which
II then was. As he came in, in his
that stately form, oh, I did feel small !                    s"ilkGogoown,n,   with
                                                                                   ,"

he said to me.        went on and got through it. When

the review was over, he stopped and                          talked  "to  us,  among
                   "                                         born ?       he   asked.
others to me.         Wrehpelrieed.wer"e             you  I
                   I                                         was born in Bom
" In India, sir,"                                  Ah,

bay myself." We had quite a talk, and then he shook
hands. I was proud of myself. I didn't wash that
Ihand for two days.
                       never got into his form ; but when
Ihe was installed dean, took a holiday and went to
Canterbury ; and when he died I went there to the

funeral service. We never allowed a word to be said

against him at home.'
156 LIFE OF DKAN FARRAR

" One or two more anecdotes before ending. The first

illustrates his generosity. Thomas, the bursar and sub

sequently son-in-law, went to remonstrate with him at

what he considered his extravagance in contributing to

school objects. 'You are always heading lists with

twenty or thirty guineas. You must think of yourself
more.' ' Oh,' he exclaimed, ' it only means writing

another article for the Contemporary or Fortnightly.'

More than one assistant master can remember, when he

was out of sorts, how the master came to his room, and

said, ' Now, don't you worry yourself. You go to bed.

I'll take your form in the morning.' Not many men

could have endured the extra physical strain, still fewer

would have volunteered it. Of his prodigious powers of

work I remember a conspicuous instance. At the close
of the Christmas holidays I went to see him, and asked

him what he had been doing. 'Looking through the
proofs of the " Life of Christ," ' he replied. ' Have you
Inot           '  asked. ' No,' he answered, ' I
been  away  ?

have worked at them thirteen hours a day the whole

time.' I remonstrated. ' Oh no,' he said, ' change of

work is as good as a holiday.'

  " It has been said that Farrar was interested in the

whole life of the school. He breathed spirit into

departments in which he had small knowledge. He

was no musician, but he greatly encouraged the singing

of the school, and the House Glee Competition was

instituted in his time. He had been Chaplain to the

Rifle Corps at Harrow, and took great interest in the

drill and shooting. The shooting Eight won the Ash-

burton shield at Wimbledon for the first and only time in

the history of the school. Marlborough had not beaten

Rugby at cricket for nine years when he came. It won

during his first two years, was beaten the next three
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 157

years, and won again in his last year and the year after.
Of course it would be absnrd to attribute these successes
to him, but his famous ' Collapse ' sermon shows the

power of stimulus which he could exert. We had been

badly beaten the year before by Rugby. Next year,
shortly before the end of term, when the match at

Lord's was to come off, the master preached on ' Moral

Collapses.' The real object of the sermon came after
                             '
a pause   at the close.         And a defeat in cricket  may   be
due to                    to    a moral collapse.' On    this  he
         a collapse, --

briefly but powerfully dwelt, ending with a quotation

from Assheton Smith (!), apropos of taking a fence :
' Throw your heart over, and your horse and body will
follow.'

   "The period from 1871 to 1876 was one of great and
undoubted success. Farrar had relieved Marlborough
from anxiety by his coming. He had thrown himself

heart and soul into his work during his mastership. 'We

knew that he could not stay long, that he was on the

high-road to preferment,' said one of his best and most
devoted pupils, 'but that did not interfere with his

giving his best to the school.' Widely known and

famous as he was, he made Marlborough more widely

known. In an important debate at a head-master's

conference, when another great head-master, Dr. Percival,

and he were ranged on opposite sides, on rising to speak

he was introduced in a ballad sent to the Journal of
Education as ' Great Marlborough preluding war.' The

list of university successes gained by the school during

his five and a half years holds its own well with any

per"ioFdaroraf rewquaasl   length preceding or succeeding.
                          an idealist, an ardent, perhaps impatient,

enthusiast, conscious of a mission, conscious also of his

own powers and of the obligation laid upon him. Such
158 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

he appeared, doubtless, and possibly such alone, to

those who had not known him at closer quarters, or in

his own home, where all that was simplest, most genuine,

and tenderest in his nature was revealed. And respice
fincm. In his last afflicting and humiliating illness he
was visited by a friend of a kinsman of mine to whom
he said, ' Farrar had preached many an eloquent sermon,

but nothing in his life was so eloquent as the patience

and resignation with which he bore his suffering. Then

the real man shone out.'

   " No sketch of Farrar's life at Marlborough would be

adequate without some allusion, however brief, to the

hospitality ever freely accorded at the Lodge to boys

present and past, to masters, and to guests. It can

easily be understood how great a refreshment such hos

pitality is felt to be after the daily routine of class room

and playground. But it was when only one or two were

present, when one was privileged to be, as it were, one
of the family, that Farrar was seen at his best in his own

home. And Mrs. Farrar -- may I without a breach of

good taste say how much we all owed to her and how

gratefully we remember her kindness ? Always the same,

gentle, companionable, putting you at once at your ease,

sincere, you soon found out how exceedingly competent

she was, how invaluable a help to her husband, how wise

and true a guide to her children. Much more might be
      ;I  trust that I have not said too much.
said      the morning of his leaving, I thanked  him  for
   "  On

what he had done for the school, and for his personal

kindness to me, expressing at the same time my sense of

his loss. At once, but with deliberation and conviction,

he uttered one of those common-sense and just judgments
with which now and again he startled one. ' No one is

necessary here. This school is too well established.'
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 159

Strictly true, as I at once admitted, but that it is true is

due to a few able and devoted men like Farrar.
   " In a prayer which the late Dean wrote for the school

he bids us thank God ' for our benefactors, and for the
lives and examples of all who have served Him here.'

Among these he will ever hold a conspicuous place."

    " The Rev. Dr. James, Head-master of Rugby and a

former colleague of my father's, has kindly allowed me
                                 appreciation : 1 --
to  "inIsteirst  the following                                  I
                 a sad pleasure   for me to write,
                                                      as  best     may,

a sketch of Dr. Farrar for the Marlburian. It must be
Iclearly understood that can only do so from the point

of view of one who was, for all too brief a period, associ

ated as a subordinate with him in his magisterial work.

What he was to the school must be told by one of his

Six"thIt  form.    not be forgotten that Farrar was once an
           should

assistant master at Marlborough in its early days of
struggle. He used to tell, with an amused sense of con

trast, stories of that bygone time ; how once he had wit

nessed a procession of hungry boys parading the court
                                      words ' Bread                    '
with a banner inscribed with     the                      or    blood    ;

or of the unfriendly relations, which he strove hard to

ameliorate, between boys and masters. Nothing, per

haps, that he ever wrote was more graceful than the

little poem in which he appealed to the Marlburians of

a later generation -- 'the glad gatherers of the golden
grain ' -- to perpetuate the memory of Dr. Wilkinson,

Ithe first master of the college. But it is of his head-

mastership that must chiefly speak. It was my privi

lege to serve as an assistant master at Marlborough,

   1 For permission to use this and the following extract I am indebted to

the courtesy of the editor of the Marlburian. -- R. F.
160 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

under Bradley for a year, and under Farrar for three.

Seldom, indeed, has it been the good fortune of any

public school to be ruled by two masters of such emi

nence in succession ; and seldom, surely, have two suc
Icessive masters been in such marked contrast.
                                                                                was

not at Marlborough when the change came, nor until

a year   otrhetwmoeaanftteimrwe.ardsB, uhtaIvinkngewtakferonmupmywofrrikenadts  Ox
ford in                                                                          on
the staff, and I learnt afterwards for myself, how great

in some ways the change was, and how it had impressed

itself upon the school : naturally it was some time before

boys or masters became reconciled to it -- for public

schools are conservative institutions. Both Bradley and
Farrar were inspiring chiefs, but the stimulus was con

veyed in very different ways. Bradley had been vivacious,

curt, plain-spoken, ubiquitous, restlessly energetic. If

the truth must be told, we junior masters (I am not sure
that I might not leave out the word ' junior ') were not

a little afraid of him, popular as he was with us. But

Farrar was nothing if not dignified, courteous, consider

Iate, conciliatory. It was not that he could not be angry ;

many a time have seen the indignation gather upon

his brow when he had to deal with meanness, disloyalty,

or wrong-doing. But he was by nature far less critical

than Bradley ; generous of his praise, as of everything

else; easily wounded by unfair criticism himself, and

so scrupulously careful not to wound others. Disre

Ispect he could not tolerate; alike in boys and in col
leagues it hurt him.  remember once a junior master
began a letter to him with ' My dear Farrar.' It was a
pure lapsus calami, I believe ; but it called out a dignified,
if kindly, rebuke. The master was bound, Farrar wrote,

to exact, even from colleagues, the respect due to his

position. The line of teaching which these two great
   HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 161

masters followed (I cannot help perpetually comparing

them) was very different, as the Sixth of 1871 found.,
and as we found who were in charge of lower forms.

   " Where Bradley had insisted upon accurate scholar

ship, Farrar exacted literary attainment. I do not mean
by that that either neglected the other point ; I could

quote amusing stories of Bradley's merciless denunciation

of illiteracy and the stimulus he gave to private reading ;

and I remember how Farrar came away quite refreshed,

as he put from review of form taught by spe
          ' it it,  a  ;                                    aa a

cially scholarly master. But where Bradley had lookedaa
first and foremost for accuracy, Farrar demanded the
                                  a if
knowledge of grammatical parallels and literary illustra
                                               a
tions. Where Bradley had encouraged the intelligent
                                           I
teaching of syntax largely as an aid to the prose com

position which he valued so highly as an instrument of

education, and in which he was himself so great mas

ter, Farrar's interests centred rather on the classification

of points of style, and on the elements of philology, --

a  study which seemed likely at that time to take more

important position in the curriculum of school and uni

versity than has since actually attained, and in which

he had been a pioneer. These reviews of our forms

were considerable power in the school.                      have heard
   a
boys say that they went into review of Bradley's in
       '
a state of absolute terror, well knowing the 'verbera

linguae which they had to expect they did not know
their work. The review was thoroughly business-like
                                                                  ;

eve"ryFabrorayr'wsasrevpieuwt sonw,'earendmtuhcehmmaorrkes  carefully assigned.
                                                            of literary lesson.

Only few boys construed the marks represented less
   a

the gradations of individual knowledge or ignorance

than the efficiency of the form as whole. And what

we learnt principally from his reports was our success
162 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

or failure in interesting our boys in the literary associ
ations of their work. No doubt each method of exami

nation had its special value. Farrar's was the harder

to satisfy, but we grumbled sometimes that it was too

much in the air, and too little in the nature of a per

sonal incentive to work so far as the boys were con

cerned. But, as he once put                          he found them 'with
I

                    a
                                           a it,

                                                                                           ;
the dust of their grinding thick upon them,' and his

desire was for more sweetness and light and to our

selves am sure the results, and the master's criticisms,

were valuable as encouraging broader view of teach

ing, as well as wider range of reading on the part of

the teacher.
   " But the channel through which Farrar's influence

principally found its way into the school was, unques
tionably, the Chapel pulpit. His sermons were an un

failing source of delight, interesting the dullest, kindling

the ablest, going to the very core of boy life, moral and
spiritual. His style familiar to us all
a                                                                                             has been
     is                                              ;
severely criticised thousand times, not always fairly.
Reviewers, Farrar complained to me once, never recog   it
                                                                         al
nised that, bad or good, was at any rate natural to
         it

him, and that he could not substitute another for it.

It was due in part, he said, to his fondness for certain

authors (among whom he mentioned Jeremy Taylor) in
early life. At any rate, the sermons were written always
in most pictorial English they were replete with illus
'
                                                  ;
trations from poetry, history, biography, which he poured

forth like wealthy men who care not how they give,'

vigorous, pathetic, denunciatory, persuasive, by turns;
but always splendidly eloquent. The veriest dullard

could not but attend, for though parts of them were

only for the ablest of his congregation, there was
ways ample food for the youngest. Take them all in
      HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 163

all, I have heard no such sermons to boys as Farrar's.

Who that listened to them, or has read them, could ever

forget, for instance, the one on poor Congreve's death ;

or that in which he described the martyrdom of Bishop

Coleridge Patteson ? They owed something, no doubt,

to that clear, mellow, and powerful voice of his -- so

singularly musical in one who had not been endowed

by"nTahtuerne  with the gift of a specially musical ear.    us all,
               there was his warm, personal interest in
masters as well as boys. In my own case it was deep

and life-long, and I can never forget or, alas ! repay it.
No trouble was so great, no pressure of work so severe,

as to prevent his doing a service for one who was, or

had"  been, a colleague.  was  stupendous                   (the word is no

      His power of work
whit too strong). How he found the time, amid all the

thousand duties of a head-master's life, to write such a
book as the ' Life of Christ,' J has always been a marvel

to me. No doubt he was a singularly rapid worker, but

"Iit was an extraordinary achievement.
    too msuasctresdaytososmaeythminugch----aanbdouytetthIe  feel the subject
is                                                          home life at the

Lodge, and afterwards at Westminster and Canterbury.

None of us who were privileged to get glimpses of it

from time to time -- and Farrar's boundless hospitality
made this possible for most of us -- will readily forget
them. His home was all that an English home can be

at its best. The love of wife and children lay deeply

rooted in his heart, and they repaid it with a true devo

tion. This sketch would be incomplete in a most vital

point if it omitted to say how much we all, and the

   1 It is from no want of appreciation that I have not attempted to deal

here with Farrar's works. Being public property they seemed to lie out

side the limits of a personal sketch such as this. -- Note by Dr. James.
164 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

school at large, owed to Mrs. Farrar's gentle, gracious

presence, unvarying kindness, and keen interest in all

that concerned Marlborough. It was a privilege, too,

to meet, from time to time, the well-known men of whom

the master counted so many among his friends, and who

visited him at the Lodge. It was a great wrench to him

when he decided to accept the canonry at Westminster.

' To my inexpressible sorrow,' he wrote, ' I am called,

by what   seems the clear voice of  duty, to leave my
beloved                               flourishing, never
         Marlborough -- never more

more happy or more blessed than it has been this year.

I must not look back, but let the brightness of the past

cheer me in the dimmer, sadder, more uncertain future.'

The work, with the addition of his continued literary
labours, was oppressively hard. ' The Abbey alone

would furnish me with employment more than ample,'

he wrote again, 'and the parish [of St. Margaret's]
ten times more.' No need to tell what a power his

sermons were in the Abbey. But we had all hoped

he would be made a bishop ; and it was, no doubt, a

trial to him, conscious as he was of his own powers

and services, to see third-rate men promoted over his

head to episcopal rank."

Prof. C. E. Vaughan, an old Marlburian and formerly

head of the school  under my father, thus  writes to the

Marlburian ; --
" Dr. Bradley died on the 13th of March ; Dr. Farrar on
the 22nd. It is not often that a school has been called

upon to mourn two such losses within so short a space,

and it is strange that two men, so closely connected in

the work of their lives, should have been so closely

joined in death.

"When Dr. Farrar was appointed Head-master, in 1871,
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 165

he was met by a task about as difficult as it is possible

to imagine ; a task before which he himself might not
unnaturally have quailed. He was called to follow one

of the most brilliant teachers and one of the most suc

cessful Head-masters ever known. And I fear it cannot

be said that the Sixth Form of that day did much to
lighten his burden. With the perverse loyalty of youth,

we were more concerned to show our devotion to the

parted, than to welcome the coming guest. Everything

that was not done exactly as Bradley would have done

   was looked at with suspicion. All the ideas which
it,
                  amade the originality of our new teacher were set down

as wandering fires to be followed at our peril. We con

veniently forgot that nothing would have been so bad

for the school, and nothing probably so hateful to our

selves, as copy, however good, of the excellent thing

which had just       been  taken from us  it, ; and  that having
lost an original     man   of one sort, we     were
                                                     fortunate --
more fortunate than we deserved -- in finding an original

man of quite another sort.
   " Many of those who began by nursing this prejudice

came before long to feel ashamed of and have never

ceased to reproach themselves for their folly. It was

bad way of showing our gratitude to Bradley          was
a                                                    ;

     It                                                it

           is                                                        a

lamentable display of ingratitude toward Farrar.
   " perhaps the greatest of all tributes to Farrar's

powers, both of intellect and character, that he should

have speedily triumphed over such prejudice. Even
                                   a

before the first generation, the generation which had

been under the spell of Bradley, had passed away, the
great qualities of Farrar had begun to make themselves
felt. And long before his too short time at Marl

borough was at an end,     it      pleasant to think that they
                               is

were universally acknowledged. It was simple justice
166 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

-- the justice which, in the long run, comes to every
man of lofty character and conspicuous talents --that
this should be the case. And, if any man ever deserved

the admiration and affection of his pupils, surely it was

Farrar. Personally, the longer I live, the more strongly
I feel the vastness of the debt I owe to the quickening
power of his teaching. And I have no doubt that

others feel the same.

   " Farrar brought to his work two qualities which have

always been rare among masters, and which, it is to be

feared, by no means tend to become commoner. What
                                   said, -- but
ever the critics may have          -- he had                the really com
petent critics never said          it,                     awide, deep and

                                                        :
constantly increasing knowledge the knowledge not

of the accomplished man of letters, but of the genuine

scholar. And he had also literary instinct such as
                                   a

few   teachers can      ever have  approached.                in itself
                        knowledge  was an education
   "  His thirst for

to those he taught. Books of which we had never heard

were constantly, though metaphorically, hurled at our

heads; fields of interest, of which we had never dreamed,

were opened to all who had the wits to enter. Without
                               --
danoyingdessoir--e  to  do so      certainly  without any delight in
                    he  made   us   feel our  own ignorance at every

moment and, we had any grace in us, he made us
      is
          ;
                if
eager to share what we could appropriate of his

knowledge.

   " It sometimes said that teacher has no need of
learning; that the 'gift of teaching' -- certain method,
natural or acquired -- all that he should ask or seek.
                                   a
                                                     a

                               is

'  Give me half an hour's start on book,' such teacher
                                   '                          a
                                                                a
                                         Ia

                                                  it
has been heard to exclaim, and will back myself to

do as much for my pupils with                              as the greatest

scholar.' To such follies as this Farrar was standing
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 167

rebuke. He knew that a teacher is the better for every
scrap of knowledge he can add to his store. And it is
just because his own knowledge was so wide and so
well under command, that so many of his pupils owe
their first conscious love of knowledge to his lessons.
Many of us may feel that we do little credit to our old
master ; and that we might have done much more than
we have done to follow his lead. But all who have

thought about the matter must be aware how much he
had to offer; they must know that it was something
immeasurably more valuable than what the vast ma
jority of teachers, even of good teachers, have it in their

power to give.
   " His knowledge covered a very wide range of sub

jects. Natural history, philology, theology, history, all
came within his net. But it was his literary knowledge
and his literary sense that probably made the deepest im
pression on his pupils. Here was a man who knew the
literature of his own country as well as he knew that of
the ancients. That, in itself, was surprising enough in
those days ; let us hope that it is commoner now.
Here again was a man who, with all his feeling for
words, never stopped short at the mere words of his
author, but always insisted on looking through them to
the thought, the imagination, the human heart, at work
behind. There must have been many to whom this was

a revelation. I am sure it was to me. And this also

was one of the greatest services a teacher could possibly
have rendered to his pupils.

   " His literary sense made him, among other things, an
excellent translator. Snatches of his extemporised ver
sions of Tacitus and Aristophanes -- rather a queer
combination, especially for so grave a man -- still linger
in my memory after more than thirty years. But it
168 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

was perhaps of yet greater use from the power it gave

him of presenting every subject in a way which was

always effective, and not seldom, in the best sense of

the word, enlightening. As his books and published

sermons show, he had an infallible instinct for seizing

exactly the points which "were most certain to rouse the

interest of his hearers, and combining them in the most

vivid and attractive setting. He was a born orator.

And the gift that made him so, though it may sometimes

have carried him away, was a gift that any teacher

might do well to covet. If it were a commoner posses

sion than it is with teachers, there would be less igno

rance and more keenness among their pupils.
   " But, after all, it would give a very false impression to

speak merely of Farrar's intellectual qualities. They

may have been the first things to strike one. They are

bound to come first into one's mind, when one thinks

of his influence as a teacher. But behind them all was

a character of singular nobility ; transparently simple ;

keenly sensitive ; capable of strong indignation, but

quick to forgive and forget, however just might be his
ground of offence ; full of self-denial ; full also of kind

nes"sPaenrhdagpesnehrisosintaytitvoewakrinddontehsesrs.was never shown so

strongly as  when any of his   pupils were in   trouble or
ill-health.  He would come to  sit with them;
                                               or -- which
he knew would give yet greater pleasure -- would ask
Mrs. Farrar to come in his stead. He would supply

them with a mount from his own stable, and sometimes

come himself for a gallop with them on the Downs.

Even when work was most pressing, he would find time

for genial services of this sort ; perching himself, stiff

and stark, on the box of his carriage to correct proofs,

while the invalid sat behind in state. There was a
         HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 169

comic side to his appearance on these occasions, as he

himself, in all probability, was well aware. But the

kindness was none the worse for that. On the con

trary, the recipient of                        he had any humour, was
         a

                                     if it,
                                           if
like"lyIt  to be all   the  better           pleased.     that  talents  so brill
           was not in  the  nature           of things

iant should be allowed to remain for ever in the service

of school, -- not even the school were Marlborough
itself. In less than six years Dr. Farrar was called to

Westminster. There he remained, one of the most

powerful religious influences in London, till, some six

years ago, he was appointed to the Deanery of Canter
bury. It
            is is    deep reproach to successive Ministers
                 aa
that he was never advanced further, to bishopric.
                                                                a

But there            sense in which his pupils and all who
love his memory may be proud of the slight. It was

the price that he paid, and paid willingly, for his advo

cacy of what he knew to be the truth."

Another old Marlburian, C. L. Graves, writes --
                                                                II
" Of the five and           half years your father was at               :
           a

                I

                         a
                            a

                                     a
                                                       a
Marlborough spent four and half under his headship
                    quarter -- Easter 1872
and three   and  Sixth. In his youth he                   to Midsummer
            the                                           had known my
1875 -- in
mother's family in the Isle of Man, and was thus pre

disposed to take friendly interest in me, but have no

reason to suppose that the unfailing kindness received

at his hands was       in any way exceptional.

   " As teacher         hhoeurwsasspeenmt ininenstclhyoosltimbyulathteingS.ixthTh--e
actual number of

especially by those who, like                   myself,    were on obtaining
the Responsions Certificate                    let off
                                                          mathematics -- was

few, but my impression that Farrar was most success
                            is
170 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

ful in inducing us to work and read for ourselves out

of school.
   " Lege, lege, aliquid haerebit was his constant cry, and

the appeal was not in vain. His lessons were always
picturesque, notably those on history, which were

enriched by anecdotes and quotations, largely from
the poets, which he delivered almost invariably from

me"mTooryw.ard his pupils his prevailing temper was one of

geniality, though he would indulge in outbursts of indig

nation at our Philistinism which at times bordered on

the comic. ' Can any boy,' I remember him once ask

ing, ' tell  me   within five hundred years the date of Joan
of Arc ? '        will not say that he never lost his equa
               I

nimity, but he certainly often had great provocation.

Some of the cleverest boys in the Sixth used to lay

themselves out to play on his foibles and susceptibilities,

yet I have good reason to believe that the most ingenious

of his tormentors had all the while a warm feeling for

the Head-master whose sense of propriety they would

from time to time endeavour to disconcert.

   " As an instance of his magnanimity I may recall the
following episode. It was the custom, and doubtless is

still, that in competing for the school prizes the name of
the competitor should be enclosed in a sealed envelope
bearing a motto which was also written at the head of
the exercise. The announcement was generally made
in hall, when the Head-master broke the seal of the

envelope containing the motto of the successful compet

itor and gave out the winner's name. One year the

subject of the English verse prize was 'The Death of

Nelson ' ; and the strongest competitor chose as his
motto, ' He's gone where the good niggers go,' hoping
that if he succeeded the Head-master would be obliged
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 171

to read out the grotesque legend. I am sure many

Head-masters in similar circumstances would have

resented such a piece of impertinence, even to the

extent of disqualifying the competitor at the outset.

There was no doubt, however, as to the superiority of
his poem, so Farrar awarded him the prize, contenting

himself with   merely announcing his name.     never  spared
               never overworked his Sixth, he
  " If Farrar

himself. Of his extraordinary industry ample evidence
will be found in other parts of this memoir. Yet he

was the most accessible of Head-masters, always ready
to give information or advice. His lessons were pre

pared with the utmost care and an almost superfluous

wealth of illustration. Indeed, he often tried to get too

much into the hour, and as time ran short the lesson

generally became a monologue. One of the trivial

things that stick in my head in this connection is the

way in which, when he was pressed for time, he used
occasionally to misplace his words. ' My dear boy,'

I remember his once saying, appalled by a confession

of unexpected ignorance, ' do you mean to say that you

have never heard of the famous statue of Michael Angelo

by   Moses ?  '

    " Of the  generous  and  gracious hospitality dispensed
by Farrar and his wife at the Lodge, I have the most
                                     In hall, too, where
grateful and pleasant recollection.

he regularly dined with the Sixth, and often brought a

guest, he was, for all his stately demeanour, the least

formidable of companions, his invariable mode of
address being, ' Come and talk to me, and amuse me,

my dear boy.'

    "Judged by the test of numbers, of games, and of

scholarship, Farrar's head-mastership coincided with a

period of great prosperity and efficiency at Marlborough.
172 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

The school was fuller than it had ever been before : in
cricket it was the era of A. G. Steel : the Spencer cup
and the Ashburton shield were won for the first time
by Marlborough : while on the score of entrance scholar
ships to the universities, and other distinctions, Marlbor
ough stood in the front rank of the public schools. But
that Farrar had his limitations as well as his fine quali
ties as a Head-master it would be impossible to deny.
To put it in an exaggerated way, he was incapable of
inspiring terror ; underneath that impressive and stately
exterior there was a very soft heart. His faults and
foibles were essentially those of an ingenuous and affec
tionate nature."

My father did not impress all men, or all boys, alike.
To deny that he had the defects of his qualities would

be to give a false impression, and it cannot be gainsaid

that there have always been some who, in spite of love
and even reverence for him, were apt to be tickled by

incongruities that arose at times from contact of the lofty

and remote plane on which he lived and thought with

the plane of commonplace realities.

   I give, therefore, some extracts from an article written

in a vein of kindly cynicism, contributed to the Cornhill
                                     "J. D. R."1
Magazine by   one of his old pupils                           I do
   There are                         so we are told.
              spots in the sun, --

not endorse all J. D. R.'s criticisms, and whole-hearted
admirers of my father may think that he has been over-

keen to discern and expose his old Marten foibles, but,

despite the pin-pricks, his essay is on the whole a tribute

of genuine if somewhat critical appreciation : --

1 By kind permission of the Editor of the Cornhill Magazine.
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 173

   "The first characteristic of Farrar -- old habit makes
me drop the Dean -- which struck the average school

boy was his grandeur of manner. I have been told that

those who first met F. D. Maurice face to face were
sim"iAlarrilsytostlteru'sckd. escription of the external marks of the
grand man suited Farrar exactly. ' His gait is slow, his
voice deep, and he speaks (like heroic verse) in meas
ured cadence.' And this grand manner clung to him

inalienably, came from or passed into his very soul, I
hardly know which. At all events, it revealed the man's

inmost literary bent. What was most genuine in his
literary tastes impelled him toward grandeur. Bias
toward the big was an instinct with him. Nothing was
more inevitable than that he should prefer Milton be
fore all other poets and Milton before all other prose
writers. Probably he is the only nineteenth century man
of letters of whom it could be said that his character
was steeped and saturated in Milton. Admiration for
Milton in the sense in which Farrar admired Milton

exists no longer, if it ever existed. Some attraction or

affinity drove him toward whatever looked large and
splendid, away from what looked little and sordid. That
was why he preferred the desolate unearthly glory of

Milton to the glorious humanity of Shakespeare. In

deed, I think that he liked Milton the more, because

Milton is remote from humanity, shrinks from contact
with its coarser manifestations, and lets us too easily
forget the facts of actual life. Probably, after Milton,
iEschylus came next in his heart of hearts : and his
sympathy was intense with that conception of the awful-
ness of fate which pervades the great epic and dramatic
writings of every age. His sympathy was intense, and
174 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

it was also discerning ; and he used to illustrate it with

unerring felicity by such and such an adjective in the

suitors' scene of the Odyssey, such and such a turn in

the plot of Macbeth, such and such sentences in Sopho

cles, or even by a well-known passage from Shelley,

and a little-known passage from Froude. When the

Erinyes darkened the air, Farrar was in his element.
Now Farrar was essentially a worshipper of poets and

the like ; and I thought then, and still think, that these

literary tastes formed the inmost fibre of the man, and

therefore of the schoolmaster. And this semblance of

grandeur cast on everything which he said and did some

*иии**times some shadow of itself, sometimes some shadow of

its opposite, but more usually an intermixture of serious
and farcical which used to strike us as so whimsical that

we could not laugh at we could only quote it.

              и

   " can certainly remember one occasion on which he
aI
                          a
                                   it,
                                                  it,

                                                 it

                                                                       a

                                                                                                                      ;

                                                    if I
conveyed to me sense of pure unadulterated grandeur.

It was one Sunday evening when he read in chapel the

chapter in Job about the horse, with classic repose
and rich resonance of voice, the like of which have

never heard since. His voice was not suited to decla

mation, or emotion, or variety of intonation but only

the speaker could keep quite calm and speak or read

something which really suited  was matchless, and

Job and Isaiah suited it. His reading of Job and Isaiah
has produced on me the effect of some great but severe

ииииииpiece of music which bears

-- say, some fugue of Bach
             b--einpgerpfolarymeded  monotonously
                                      on perfect
I
instrument.                                                                   a

и

" As have said, under certain conditions and for cer

tain purposes, his voice could produce unrivalled legato
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 175

effects with the ease and certainty of some old Italian
violoncello. Now, his voice was always with him ; and
is it to be supposed that this was the only occasion on
which it did justice to itself? that Milton, ^Eschylus,
and those passages from Shakespeare, Sophocles, and
the Odyssey which appealed most to him did not also
elicit the same nobility of tone ? Over and over again
while teaching us he spoke and read big things well and
without effort ; and whenever he did so, he did so un
affectedly and majestically. The best, perhaps the only,

philosophic scrap which I picked up from his table was

a lucid exposition of Coleridge's distinction between the

imagination and fancy. But I am much more grateful

to him for the way in which he made me feel in my
marrow and my bones some far-off inkling of the imag
inative power which possessed Milton and ^Eschylus,
and inspired one side of Homer's, Sophocles', and

Sha"kFeasrpreaarr'es'sindguesntiruys.was positively tireless, and the more
so because he did nothing by deputy. He was like
perpetual motion or radium. The man who was form
master and transacted all the business of Head-master of

a great public school, preached hundreds of sermons, and
crammed his ' Life of Christ ' with references to scholars,

pedants, poets, and saints during those five brief years,
1 87 1 to 1876, lived a crowded life. And he seemed to
have thought or hoped that his pupils would prove
equally energetic. So one afternoon he took some
friends on a surprise visit to some Sixth-form studies in

' A ' house, thinking or hoping to find its occupants --
like Charity Pecksniff -- at work. O sancta simplicitas!

The industrious apprentices were caught red-handed in

the very act of enjoying ' a brew,' -- or ought I not to

write brown-handed ? For in those days a brew con
176 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

sisted of cocoa and roast potatoes. At the next lesson

Farrar began to narrate the story of his disillusion in low,

mourning voice thus : ' I confidently expected to be

able  to point  with pride to my sixth-form boys absorbed
and   immersed
                 in study of some Attic masterpiece --

      " ' Presenting Thebes, or Pelops' line,
         Or the tale of Troy divine.1

Then, gradually raising his voice, he continued : ' But

what was my indignation, vexation, and shame when I

discovered them greedily engaged in ravenously devour
ing the semese fragments of a barbaric repast,' and

those last six words, uttered fortissimo with intense

vigour, launched him on a speech whose sesquipe
dalian grandiloquence Dr. Middleton might have envied.
Indeed, for full five minutes he was like ' a bitten dic

tionary,' and at the end of it his good humour was
quite restored. Our first impression was, how odd it
was that he should have felt disappointed ! Our second,
Could he really expect to crush cocoa and roast pota
toes with those furious blows of his Nasmyth hammer ?
Our third, What Gargantuan humour! What fresh,
fluent, and spontaneous rhetoric ! How purposeless it

seemed when levelled against our cocoa and roast po
tatoes ! How effective it has proved against his dumps !
True, it was at first unconscious, then semi-conscious,

and only at last (if then) wholly conscious ; but this
only made the humour more humorous. Such outbursts
as these made our school life lively.

  " I have referred to his all-devouring industry. That

in itself was stimulating and inspiring. Moreover, he

had a fine memory and a sense of the picturesque which
fed largely on literary histories, and which invested our
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 177

studies of Guizot, Duruy, Sismondi, and Michelet with an
unique charm and fascination. Yet how incredible the

advice sounded which he used to impart to all and

sundry, students and athletes, dull and clever, when he
said good-bye to them for the holidays : ' My dear boys,
if you will take down from your
                                                             shelves and read         during
tMhielmhaonl'isday"s   some                  good books                              Rome,"
                                             Christianity,"  like Gibbon's "
                      Latin                                  Grote's " Greece," or
Mommsen's " Rome," it will be so much clear gain.'
I can still remember the innocent assurance with which

и he hurled forty-one volumes at our devoted heads, and

his curious emphasis on the last four monosyllables still

                                                   is
                                                             it

                                                                          it
                                                                                          it,
rings in my ears. We could not help remembering

for no other reason, for the reason that seemed
' if
                     ;
                                          ;
absurd and, we said, There                                   not much light in it,'
                                             is '
and we smiled then we thought over again, and said,

 There is, after all, some true fire in it,' and we went

away and worked. It possible that our Head-master

sent toddlers on the tramp before they could walk but
                                                                    a

                                                                                                           :

                                                                                                     a
not all the sensible, prompt, and decisive persons in the

world will ever persuade me that zeal has not something
to do with knowledge. And, assuredly, Farrar was

wh"olPe-ehrehaarptesd, Fairnrfaerc'stioiunsf,lupernocsee--lytiassing  zealot.        for  belles
                                                                      zealot
letlres -- was increased by the sense we always had that

he formed part of that literary world to which he was

so passionately devoted. We did not derive that

sense from the oddity with which he invariably re
ferred to Ruskin, Stanley, Browning, Tennyson, M.

Arnold and others as his eminent friends -- an oddity
to which would require Dickens's pen to do justice --
it it
                                       '
                                                                        :
                                                                                  '
far less from his literary ventures but partly from the

fact that was true that they were his friends, and

partly from the fact that when at his best and simplest
178 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

he was himself a distinguished man and seemed, as I

have said, at home with big things ; and partly from the
quiet way in which he would now and then repeat some
familiar talk with one of that glorious company, say,
with Browning or Tennyson. Thus he would tell us how

Browning told him how the famous ride from Ghent to Aix

had set pedants diving into old books, but that it really
took place in the nineteenth century in a yacht on the

Mediterranean. And I remember the following conver
Isation early in 1875 : Dr. F. : ' have just been staying

with Tennyson, who read me his new poem. It is a com
pletely new departure.' Precocious Boy : ' Then it is
a drama.' Dr. F., with withering contempt : ' My dear

boy! do you really think that I am a little child with

whom you can play at guessing?' And the P. B.

was baffled. A few months later ' Queen Mary ' was

published. Farrar's nearness to these kings of dream
land invested them and the dreams which were their

subjects with a reality which helped us to understand

literature.

   " As a disciplinarian he was unconventional, to say the
least. He did not take a drill-sergeant view of his pro
fession. He gave us great liberty, rode with a very loose

rein, and trusted to our moral force instead of to his own

vigilance. However, he proclaimed all his own weak
points from the house-top ; thus, his rooted belief that
he knew boys whom he did not know led him into many
blunders, for which, however, his evidently kindly mean
ing easily atoned ; and the too great care with which
he took offence, and then forgave, looked like want of
judgment, but was partly due to the unsuspecting sincer
ity which made him utter everything that was passing
through his mind. He made up for want of firmness by
excess of kindness. Indeed, as a form master he would
    HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 179

have been defenceless against his pupils, if his pupils had

been against him.

   " Farrar's stateliness invariably brought his blunders
into unfair relief; his unfailing earnestness, candour,
and kindness invariably corrected the effects which his
blunders might have otherwise produced. We regarded
his great qualities with admiration and his failings with

ten"dIerrneemsse.mber the shock which the contrast between

Bradley and Farrar produced on veteran pupils of Brad
ley. One of them, indeed, who was neither a scoffer nor
a Philistine, wrote to his late Head-master on a post-card,
in the days when post-cards were the last new thing : --

                        " Dear Dr. Bradley,
                             We miss you sadly ;
                             And wish Dr. Farra'
                             Would go back to Harra'.

   " Other veterans carped worse even than this bad boy
cackled; and predicted a plentiful crop of milksops, ped

ants, prigs, and sciolists on the one hand, and, on the other
hand, of untamed rebels marching under the banner of

inculta rusticitas. But I have no patience with those

who expect any class of people to conform to a given
type. One good custom can corrupt the world : and an
able man who means well and is true to himself can
break the best rules. Besides, facts are on the side of

Farrar's efficiency as a Head-master. It was just after

the great fever. Parents wrote by every post withdraw
ing their sons' names from the doomed school. The
bursar's books were all but a blank. The school was
threatened with extinction. Then Farrar came, and the
tide turned. He raised the school out of the slough of
180 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                                                                                                                                       и

despond. During the five years that followed, the for

tunes of the school were restored, and boys who were
immediately under him won as high and as many hon

ours as those won in Bradley's five best years, though

the credit for that feat was doubtless partly due to

other masters, or possibly even to the boys themselves.

Indeed, it is impossible to see who could have done

better for Marlborough than Farrar. He was the very
man for the post at that time. The moment required a

head-master with a reputation and a personality, with un
sparing energy and unflagging enthusiasm : and Farrar

fulfilled  these requirements.      to the typical  schoolboy
   " He    was as unlike in nature

as it was possible to be. None could have ever called
him ' jolly ' or ' old fellow." He was not adamantine and

Rhadamanthine like Temple. He was not sunny, sen
sible, and wide-awake like Bradley. He was sui generis.
At first sight he seemed all stateliness and austerity;

cold, splendid, one-sided, unattainable : resembling what

he used to call ' that burnt-out old cinder, the moon.'

The last sight of him revealed only an excess of sincerity,

sensitiveness, candour, and kindliness. Would that

Aristotle or some one else had invented some word for

this particular excess ! He was transparency itself.
The first quality set off and ennobled the very rare and

high enthusiasm which was his most valuable teaching

asset ; it also accounted for some of his faults and ac
centuated all his faults as a schoolmaster. The last

quality -- the glass-house in which he lived -- accounted

for his other faults and saved him from the effects

of all his faults as a schoolmaster. So singular a

character was likely to be misunderstood by geese and
carps who are guided by superficial impressions ; nor

was it likely to show much knowledge of the characters
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 181

of others", but it appealed irresistibly either to the imagi
nation or to sympathy, and that did almost if not quite

as well. I have known some half-dozen other head-mas

ters, and have often discussed all of them with their

pupils -- for I fear that I was ever a gossip -- but I
adhere to my belief that Farrar was the most interesting

of the lot.
   " So at least this fine man's virtues and frailties appeared

to me a generation ago, when I was a dreamy, short

sighted, half-baked schoolboy, with but little knowledge

of character and but little sense of proportion ; and as

I now diffidently raise the curtain on some few almost

forgotten scenes of private experiences in a public

school, I only hope that in doing so I have offended

none, either by my incapacity or by my mistakes, either

by my stinted    praise or mild   criticism,  because,  as  Dante
said of his old  schoolmaster,
                                 --

" Che in la mente m' e fitta ed or m' accuora

  La cara e buona imagine paterna
  Di voi quando nel mondo ad ora ad ora
  M' insegnavata come l1 uom s' eterna."

   The following sketch, by my sister Mrs. Thomas, of
my father in his home life, before marriage and profes
sional duties had more or less scattered the circle of

children, seems to belong rather to Marlborough than

to Westminster days, and is therefore inserted here : --
   " In looking back on childhood, it is difficult to analyze

the working of a father's influence on the home. That
of a mother is all-pervading. She is constantly with her
children, her love and tender care surround them, and

to her they naturally turn for every detail of family life,
while as a rule the father has more power, but less
opportunity, more authority and less intercourse. Yet
 182 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

  it is undoubtedly the fact that a good father -- more
 even than a mother -- forms the character of the home.
  The mother carries out his plans, softens, beautifies his
  designs, completes the whole building, but the master-
  hand is the father's.

     " In the case of my father, though we only saw him, as

 a rule, in the brief intervals of his incessant work, I do

  not hesitate to say that his influence was the under
  current of our lives, and that from him we learnt high,
  strong lessons of self-denial, self-control, self-culture,
  and above all self-surrender to God. He left us a heri
  tage of good, for which we and our children after us

 may well be called to give account. A man of few

  words, with scarcely any aptitude for ordinary chit-chat,
  a remark from him came with more than ordinary
  weight, and a conversation with him taught and sug

 gested more than school books could do. It gave us a

  consciousness of worlds beyond our petty ken ; it opened
  glimpses of literature and art ; it awoke the possibility
  of travelling for ourselves in those regions of knowledge
  and research which his own steps trod so unweariedly.
  Our petty ideals fell away before his lofty standard of
  right and high endeavour, and yet with him it was
  always ' Go and do thou likewise,' so that we were
  borne along the wave of his enthusiasm, not drowned
 by its volume. He never quenched our small aspira
  tions but listened kindly to the crudest opinion so long
  as conceit was not mixed up with it. This was one
  secret of his influence over children and young people.
  Even the hobbledehoy stage learnt self-respect under
  the courteous sympathy that encouraged their efforts.

 'Teach thy tongue to say, I do not know,' he once

  remarked with a kindly smile to a blushing, awkward
  child, overwhelmed with shame at being unable to

\
      HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 183

answer a question put to her at the luncheon-table ; only

that -- yet the smile and aptly quoted proverb relieved

the shame of self-conscious youth and put in its stead
desire to clear the reproach of ignorance by effort at

imp"roI vneemveenr t.remember my father giving us a set lesson ;

he taught us more by apposite suggestion, by allusions
to books or events, by anecdote or illustration, especially
he taught by his own appreciation of the good and great,

making us see for ourselves what was worth learning.

I might mention many instances of this. An episode of

Francis d'Assisi's life told in a sermon, and in reply

to our questions a few glowing words on the saint, with

'you should read it for yourself,' and the volume is

handed over as is anything that we ask for from his

study. (Read it we did, and many another book the

same way.) A walk among the cornfields on a doubtful
summer afternoon while ' waves of shadow went over
           '                                 I think more
the wheat    ;  and  after  his  quotation,                than

one of us went home resolved to get Tennyson's ex

quisite song by heart. A story from the ' Idylls of the
King,' and soon Arthur and his Table Round becomes

one   of  our household plays.         with  enthusiasm    while
   "  Or  we watch his face quivering

we listen to his generous eulogy of a great or noble
deed, ' and feel how awful goodness is and see virtue in

her shape how lovely.' Again we catch his burning

words of scorn or hatred of wrong and oppression, mean

ness or   cruelty, and we too    learn to    hate what is base.
          father rarely spoke    directly    on religious matters
   " My
in the family circle, but we instinctively knew that he
lived for God and His service. He showed us the beauty

of religion in his life.
   " He was a man of fastidious refinement and delicacy
184 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

of feeling, reserved almost to pride, austere, even stern,

at times. Coupled with this, however, were great ten

derness and much quiet humour. He could not bear to
see his children in pain or grief -- he loved to give them

pleasure ; and though he seldom caressed us, we never
doubted his warm family affection. Which of us, for

example, can forget the long illness and temporary

blindness of a tiny brother, and our father's solicitude

the"nA?s to humour, he appreciated it fully in others if not

witty himself. ' I am tired, talk to me and amuse me,'

he would say to his children, or to boys at the sixth-

form dining-table, and would then lean back in his

chair, enjoying their chatter, after a time perhaps rous

ing himself to join in as eagerly as they. Many a time

did his hearty, infectious laughter break out in recount

ing some tale, or his eye light up with quiet glee in
exchanging repartees with friends. Little oft-repeated

family jokes inspired by him have now been invested

with almost sacred remembrance, too dear for repetition

in these pages. His playful tilts at ignorance or awk

wardness may     be mentioned        as instancing   his power
of dealing with                     satire without  a sting, be
                  the young --

cause of the genial smile and kindly inflection that
                         ' Grotesque idiot,' -- ' Antedilu
accompanied them.
vian megatherium,' -- ' Have you ever heard of an
obscure person named William Shakespeare,' are among

these. We think of them now with that laughter which

is  "akLionveto  tears.
                 of the
                         beautiful  was  strongly marked  in  my

father. The wide stretches of green down, with the

strong, sweet air fanning his bare brow; the stately

beech avenue, and sunflecked glades of forest bracken ;
the ' hosts of golden daffodils ' ; the fragrant carpets
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 185

of bluebells ; the banks of pale, tender primroses ;
the patches of frail, rose-stained anemones in the

copses, -- all these were positive joy to him. His face

would light up with rare pleasure, as he gazed over the
rolling foam, or marked the quiet splash of the rippling
tide, and drank in large draughts of sea-breezes while
pacing up and down the smooth, yellow sands. The
spirit of Heber's lines seemed ever in his thoughts.

            " O God, O good beyond compare,

            If thus Thy meaner works are fair, . . .

                How glorious must the mansions be,
                Where Thy redeemed shall dwell with Thee.

I quoted these lines to him not long before his death,

and he seemed to listen with pleasure. Beauty in art,

too, was a source of great delight, -- a delight which he

tried to transmit to others. He used to say that good

art was an important factor in education, and he carried

out his theory by covering the walls of every room in the

house with pictures suggestive of the sacred and lovely,

either copies or originals. His explanations of pictures

and the graphic way in which he would point out their
beauties were lessons in themselves. He could never see

a treasure in art, beautiful either from rich colour or grace

ful form, whether picture, vase, or figure, without wish

ing to possess himself of it. This was his one form of

self-indulgence, and it was a happy one, for our home

became, in  time, a  museum of   lovely objects.  and  our
            a dear   home, that  in Marlborough,
  " It was
thoughts must often revert to it with fond regret. We

remember the large, sunny garden, with its terraces

ending in the field, its clump of shady trees, and the

river below. But I can best describe it in his own

words : --
186 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " <' The river valley with its towers and trees ; the
forest with its mossy glades and primroses and waving

boughs ; the west woods with their wild anemones and

daffodils ; the free, fresh downs with the winds of heaven
that breathe health over them ; the natural amphitheatre

of Martinsell, and the glorious expanse on which I had

gazed so often from its green and breezy summit ; and
more than these, the nearer scenes so bright with their

thousand imperishable memories ; the terrace, the mound,
the cricket field, the wilderness, the roofs of the old

house rising over the clipped yews and between the
groups of noble limes. And often, as on these gorgeous

summer evenings, the sunsets have rolled over us in
Itheir countless waves
                                                               in
own garden amid the
                          of crimson fire,      have sat       --  my
                          woodland sights   and sounds             the

peace, the coolness, and the song of birds, the quiet
lapse of the river heard in the stillness, the air full of

the odours of rose and jasmine, and then heard the
chapel bell breaking the stillness, and passed through

the court  rweivtehreintscegroofupthsisofdehaarppHyoubsoeyso, fanGdodso--inItohathvee
beautiful

thought that not often has our Heavenly Father given

bet"teMr yelefamthenetrs   of happiness  to you and to me.'    There
                          sympathised    in our love of pets.
was the innocent-faced donkey, ' Blacknose,' who every

day might be seen plodding steadily along the lanes
with the scarlet-capped babies in panniers on each side,

and a vigorous little fellow astride his back. There

were the white pigeons    with rosy      feet who   came to our
nursery windows to feed    from our                 the sea-gulls
                                         hands, --

brought from Swanage Bay, the numerous families of

rabbits and the tame fawn that ran races with us on the
terrace and which we fed with milk from a bottle. Mar

tins built in the shady schoolroom porch, and he with

kV
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 187

us loved to watch the tiny mother darting in and out to

feed her nestlings and see the fledglings perched on the
led"geOprpeoadsiytefoorutrhehiorufsierstwfalisghtth.e sick house, where my
mother daily cheered the invalids with her sweet face

and words. Convalescent boys would be given the run

of our garden, and were taken for drives  by my father
                                          the box, cor
himself -- he as often as not perched on

recting papers, with his guest on the carriage seat.

We have spoken elsewhere of his love for boys, and I

can only recall here the way he would pace up and

down his garden, with his arm on a boy's shoulder, or
sit with him on the lawn correcting his ' prose.' Per

haps the happiest times in our young lives were when
starting out in brakes and carriages, crowded with happy

boys, to picnics to Martinsell or the forest, and on these

occasions my father was not the least happy of the

par"tyW. e left Marlborough with singular regret, and to my

father the pang of leaving his beloved school and peace
ful country scenes for the squalor of London life was

never quite got over. I remember the melancholy

journey to London and how one of the party was unable

to restrain her tears at the last glimpse of well-known

landmarks. My father, putting aside his own regret,
said tenderly, ' Never mind -- you will come back to

Marlborough one day.' It was a curious coincidence

that the child to whom he spoke was the only one who

did come back to make a new home in Marlborough.
   " Our life in Westminster was very different and we

greatly missed our freedom and country pleasures ; my

father never could get reconciled to the comparatively
noisy and sordid surroundings of our new home. Also

the gloom, grime, and hideous eighteenth century deco-

^ oU*  .-< -. ╗-" '  :  ... <  * % *
188 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

rations of St. Margaret's church filled him with pain.
He used with pathetic humour to groan over the big iron

stove in the south aisle where a certain disreputable-

looking man took his seat on Sunday evenings ; the

fat and frowsy pew-opener ; the false apse, painted blue
with yellow stars ; the huge galleries ' like the reced

ing forehead of a gorilla,' as he used to say. But he
bravely and cheerfully made the best of it. The church

after stupendous efforts was restored and beautified.

The graceful arches and historical interest of West

minster Abbey partly made up for his lost country

duties. St. James's Park, where he would take us to
feed the water-fowls, was a pleasure, also the old college

garden in which we children spent the summer evenings

in "mWerhraytghaemlpeesd. most to cheer and brighten my father

in those early Westminster years was the society of
' The Curates,' who, young, ardent, bright, and intel

lectual, gave an atmosphere of cheerful vigour to the

house, and lightened many an hour of anxiety and de

pression. Chief among those he reckoned the two who

afterward became members of our family and of whom

it is not necessary to speak here ; but I cannot pass

over the Sunday evenings when parents, children, and

curates gathered in a circle after supper, when talk --
literary, witty, or serious -- went on, led by my father,

who on these occasions seemed to open the treasures

of his learning and experience for our benefit. When

it grew late he would rise with the stereotyped joke,
' Your mother wants to go to bed,' and so disperse

the   reluctant company.   London  life were  broken  annually
      The restrictions of
   "

by our visits to the seaside, holidays looked forward to

by my father with as much eagerness as by his children.
HEAD-MASTER OF MARLBOROUGH 189

Even at the seaside he allowed himself no real holiday,
for, with the exception of two daily walks, he sat at his

books from morning till night, content if from his open

window he could catch the breeze and see the blue

expanse of ocean. Here his marvellous powers of con

centration came in. As a rule we had only one sitting

room, beside that appropriated to the babies, so that he
was seldom alone. Yet he did his writing all day at

the window table, not only undisturbed by games, read

ing aloud, or chatter, but ever ready to turn round with

Ian observation on the subject of discussion. I may safely

say that never do remember his showing irritation at

having to write under circumstances that would deprive

most authors of power to compose. Rather do I think

that his work was aided and not hindered by the atmos

phere of simple, domestic joys which surrounded him

in our holidays.   One or    more of us were   his compan
ions in his daily            walks when he    would repeat
                   walk, --

and make us repeat poetry. Then, too, he would search
with us for wild flowers and talk of their properties or

pe"cuOlitahreitrisesh. ave written of his parish work in London,

so I will only speak here of the large circle of friends,

men or women of fame and power who added greatly

to the interest of our lives. Such names as Tenny
son, Browning, Matthew Arnold, Millais, Frith, Hol-

man Hunt, Jean Ingelow, Tom Hughes, and perhaps
first in friendship among ecclesiastics, the beloved Dean

Stanley, are typical of the society in which my father

delighted.

   " Above all, we had the happiness of living for many

years, with few separations, since the school or profes

sion of most of us lay at one time in London, and the

only thing which troubled my father's pleasure in having
190 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

his children round him was his anxiety to see them

all well started in life, ambition for them being among
his few weaknesses -- if weakness
   " Of the large family party who  it may be called.
                                    lived in those happy
homes of Marlborough and Westminster, --

" All are scattered now and fled,

  Some are married, some are dead,

And he who was to them as father, priest, and friend
sleeps under the gray cathedral wall of his last home."
                   CHAPTER VIII

THE LIFE OF CHRIST AND OTHER THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS

  In 1874 was published the "Life of Christ," the

magnum opus by which my father's name is best known
to the world. The Preface is dated from The Lodge,

Marlborough College, Monday before Easter, 1874.
   The work was      undertaken at                        of the
publishers, who "  wished to place   the request         of their
                                    in the hands

readers such a sketch of the Life of Christ on earth

as should enable them to realise it more clearly and

to enter more thoroughly into the details and sequence

of the Gospel narratives."

  It would be foreign to my purpose, even were I com

petent to the task, to attempt a detailed appreciation             i

of the book, which will, besides, be more or less familiar

to any who are sufficiently interested in my father to
read his Life, but a work so important demands some

thing more than a passing notice.

  The author says in his Preface : " After I had in
some small measure prepared myself for the task, I

seized, in the year 1870, the earliest possible oppor
tunity to visit Palestine, and especially those parts of it

which will be for ever identified with the work of Christ
on Earth. Amid those scenes wherein He moved --

in the             " Holy fields

        Over whose acres walked those blessed feet

        Which, eighteen hundred years ago, were nailed,
        For our advantage, on the bitter cross --

                   191
192 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

in the midst of those immemorial customs which re

called at every turn the manner of life He lived, at

Jerusalem, on the Mount of Olives, at Bethlehem, by

Jacob's Well, in the Valley of Nazareth, along the
               of the Sea of  Galilee, and in the  coasts
bright strand                 things came home     to me
of Tyre and    Sidon -- many

for the first time, with a reality and vividness unknown

before. I returned more than ever confirmed in the

wish to tell the full story of the Gospels in such a
manner and with such illustrations as -- with the aid

of all  that  was   within my reach    of that knowledge
which   has   been   accumulating for
                                        centuries -- might

serve to enable at least the simple and the unlearned

to understand and enter into the human surroundings

of the life of the Son of God." . . .

   " If," he continues, "the following pages in any meas
ure fulfil the object with which such a Life' ought to

be written, they should fill the minds of those who read

them with solemn and not ignoble thoughts ; they should
' add sunlight to daylight by making the happy happier ' ;

they should encourage the toiler ; they should console

the sorrowful ; they should point the weak to the one

true source of moral strength. But whether the book

be thus blest to high ends, or whether it be received

with harshness and indifference, nothing at least can

rob me of the deep and constant happiness which I

have felt during almost every hour that has been spent

upon it."

This journey was undertaken in company with his

friends Walter Leaf, a beloved Harrow pupil, and the

late William Ingelow, the witty and genial brother of

the poetess. Readers of the book will appreciate how

much it has gained from the knowledge of local colour

which the author was thus enabled to acquire.
           THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                                                            193

   The Hulsean Lectures of 1870 on " The Witness of
History to Christ," had to some extent prepared and

qualified him for the work, but can only be regarded

as  preliminary         studies.   " is
                        of Christ  with
    The " Life                           generally                    s"ppokoepnulaor,f",  and
                                         a sneer, as                                       and
often by ignorant critics

popular it certainly is in the sense that it is avowedly

written in the service of the simple and the unlearned,

popular too in the sense that it is understood of the

people, and has brought the Light of the Gospel to

thousands to whom the books of theologians accounted
                                                                         But if "
mlaor r"e   learned     taondconpnrootfeoun"dsuapreerfsiceiaalel,d".               popu
           be held                                                    no epithet   could

be more misapplied. Whatever defects the Life of

Christ may be thought to have, and it has been freely
criticised, that it is a monument of learning and re

search can only be denied by those who have never read
the book. The list of authorities, giving the catalogue
of books and editions frequently referred to in the Life,

is alone sufficient to vindicate the deep learning of the

author, and on almost every page will be found evi

dence of the minute and laborious pains he took to

illustrate and elucidate every incident, and even every

phrase of the Gospel Narratives.
   In
the "      judging      Farrar's  work, and     this is true not only of
                        Christ,"  but of all    his books, it must not
           Life of

b"eintfeonrgsiovtete"n   that there are two  "  orders                of scholars, the
                        and the " extensive      school,               both necessary
to the world -- those whose function is original re

search, and those whose function it is to interpret and

make available the labours of the former class, whose

work would otherwise remain buried under its own

weight. And it was to this latter class that my father
unquestionably belonged. He laboured in the fields of
194 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Philology, Theology, and History ; but, wide as was his

learning, it cannot be claimed for him that either as

a philologist, as a theologian, or as a historian he un
earthed new treasures of knowledge -- by original re

search. But it is true of him, as has been said, that

"as a writer he came into the market-place with the

treasures of  Biblical  oafndthehissitmorpicleal"  learning and  put
them at the   service                              ; and not of  the

simple only, for though some few may have been his

masters in depth, very few were his equals in width of

learning, and even of professed English theologians

there are but few, from Lightfoot downwards, who

would not gratefully acknowledge their indebtedness to

Farrar. Indeed my father had no warmer admirers

than those great theologians Lightfoot and Westcott,

with whom he is sometimes invidiously contrasted.
For instance, though a Hebrew scholar, he was not a

profound Hebraist ; but he was the first great literary

churchman of his day to appreciate and make effective

use of the body of Talmudic learning made available

by German scholars.        in which  the           " Life  of   Christ "

   In regard to the style
is written, the terms "florid" and "exuberant" have

been reiterated ad nauseam by every journalist, and it

is true, as has been expressed    by one            of   the    kindliest
of his critics, and not all were  kindly,          that   " in   matters

of composition his   tihtnoetesalIloye,ncti"ucaIlof rmthDeetohfroaicdultwosardsoeforDf"rt.;heFbauCrtroartrihn'se
thian rather than

same critic goes on

mental temperament, in his love of gorgeous phrase and

encrusted epithets, are to be plainly discerned in these

pages, it does but render them like a missal which has

been a little overgilded and painted, the book itself

being a noble and precious product of English theo
     THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS  195

logical learning, and an enduring witness in every line

to the piety, the lofty faith, and the conscientious accu

racy of the author." To the question of style I shall

recur in connection with my father as a preacher.

  It must not be forgotten that this gigantic task, which

would have been a notable achievement as the outcome

of years of lettered leisure devoted to no other object,

was with my father a irapepyov, accomplished in the

spare hours of a busy schoolmaster's life, between the

years 1870 and 1874. Engaged often in teaching and
other routine magisterial duties from seven o'clock in

the  wsmaryiotser,n"iannhgdavteiflrleonqftiuenneentopa'csslesoercmdkownastithntoioguhtpt,mrewypaitfrhien,dmina"gnmy toilnmetthetse,rt"so
to
he

write a single line ; yet, even in the midst of incessant

labour at other things, nothing forbade that the subject

on which I was engaged should be often in my thoughts,
or that I should find in it a source of peace and happi

ness different alike in kind and in degree from any

which other interests could either give or take away."

But leisure, with him, meant ever change of occupation,

not smoking, or chatting, or a game of whist ; and after

a hard day's work in school his steady lamp would burn

far into the night ; while he valued his holidays chiefly

for the privilege they gave him of working thirteen
hours a day at his beloved book. Which of his chil

dren does not remember the ponderous and solidly

constructed "book-box," with its fifteen cubic feet of

formidable tomes, mostly German theology, the working-

tools of my father's literary craft, which accompanied

the family to the seaside on every successive summer

holiday ?

  And he reaped from the "Life of Christ" a rich

reward in [the suffrages of the simple and unlearned
ig6 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

for whom the book was written. Though financially

the profits of the author were scanty indeed in propor

tion to the commercial success of the book, for it was

not published upon the "royalty" system (and indeed

my father sometimes felt that his work had deserved

more generous treatment at the hands of his publishers) ;

the demand for the book was enormous. Twelve editions,

╗ at the rate of one a month, were exhausted in the first

year of its publication. Since its first appearance the

work has   "gopnireatethdro"uignhAmtheirrtiycae,daitniodnshaisn  England alone,
has been                                                         been translated

into almost every European language, including two

independent translations into Russian, and even into

Japanese.

But more, even, than the evidence of success derived

from sales, the author valued the testimony of hundreds

who, year by year, and from all parts of the world, con

tinued to write to him, acknowledging their deep spiritual

indebtedness to this and other works of his. The joy of

feeling that he had been, under God, the humble instru

ment of turning many to righteousness was a reward

which no bitterness of    c"rimticaiysmbecoreugldartdaekde       from him.     of
   The " Life of Christ                                          as the first

a trilogy, dealing with   th1e87f9oubnydtahteion"sLiofef         the  SCt.hrPisatuial n"
faith, being followed in                                         of

(which is considered by many judges as of greater
theological value, if of less popular interest, than the
"Life of Christ"), and in 1882 by the "Early Days

of Christianity."
He continued to make further studies in the Life of
                                        beautiful " Life
Christ, publishing  iAn r1t8"9;4   the                                of Christ
as represented in                 and   finally, in 1900,             from the
Deanery, Canterbury, his last important work, " The
Life of Lives," written when the atrophy, which finally
          THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                                                    197

compelled him to abandon all literary work, had begun
already to fasten on that right hand which had toiled so

long in the service of mankind. The "Life of Lives"

is dedicated

                                               Conjugi

                               Dilectissimae et Fidelissimse

                              Laborum, Felicitatis, Dolorura

                          Per XL Annos Participi

                                       Hunc Librum
                                           D.D.D.

                                Fredericus Gulielmus Farrar

                      III Non. Apr. MDCCCC

    In his Preface the author sent it forth "with the -

humble petition offered, ' with bent head and beseeching

hand,' that He who deigned to bless my former efforts,
will bless this effort also, to the furtherance of His King
dom, and the good of His Church."

    Had this beautiful book, so full of pathetic interest

for those who love the author, been confined merely to

the first and last chapters, in which he employs all the

resources of his wide knowledge of history and litera

ture, and all the fervour of his intense conviction, to

bring home to the hearts of his readers the compelling

force of the life, teaching, and example of Christ Jesus,

it would have been a profoundly                         valuable contribution
                                                                                  " Life
to  tLhievecsau"sewiothf  Christianity  ";   and        ocfomCpharirsint g"  the
of                        the earlier                                        we   recog
                                            Life

nise that age, without dimming the learning of the

divine, had brought with it added depth of spiritual

insight.

    The following letter from Professor Margoliouth, the

great  Hoef bprerowfosucnhdolaler,arinlliunsgtratote"s  the  value attached       by
a man                                                                             of
St. Paul": --                                           The  Life and Work
198 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

       "Little Lin ford Vicarage, March 12, 1880.

" Dear Sir : Utter stranger as I am to you, yet I can

not resist the strong desire which took possession of my

mind,  and heart,  too, to write a few lines to you.  criti
       have now    read and re-read, attentively and
   "I

cally, your great opus, ' The Life and Work of St. Paul.'

I have the courage of my conviction to pronounce it the

greatest useful practical work that the Church of Eng

land has produced since the Reformation.

   "The two volumes, indeed, contain certain opinions

and sentiments, criticisms and exegeses, quotations and

renderings of the same which I cannot possibly acquiesce

in. But the difference in our respective readings, con-

struings, and applications of some passages in Hebrew,

Greek, Latin, German, etc., does not alter my matured

judgment of the importance of your last two volumes

to the Church of Christ.
   "The reason for my presuming to write all this to

you is a patriotic one. I am anxious to give expression
to a thought which haunted me whilst I read and re-read
'The Life and Work of St. Paul.' The thought was,

and this If the two volumes were but somewhat, not
is,
too much, condensed and then rendered into Hebrew,
                :

               I
the work might prove the most effective preparer and

maker-ready of the way for turning the hearts of the

disobedient and unbelieving Jews to- the wisdom of the
Just One. Far more so than the numerous tracts pub
lished and circulated by certain missionary associations.
                   " am, dear sir,

                          " Yours faithfully,

                          "M. Margoliouth.

"The Rev. Canon Farrar, D.D."
    THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                                                          199

   Two other books, " Darkness and Dawn," a tale of
Nero's days, and " Gathering Clouds," a tale of the days

of Chrysostom, dealing with the period of degeneration

which set in with the fourth century, when the faith lost

its first ideals, though in form works of fiction, treat of

the history of the Early Church and may be regarded

as continuing the same series which was further carried
out in " Lives of the Fathers."

   The works forming the " Trilogy " reveal the author's

profound and intimate         knowledge   of theological scholar                  "
ship ; these later books       and his "  Lives of the Fathers

exhibit a knowledge not less profound and intimate of
                                                                              In  " Dark
tnheesshaisntdoryDaowf nthe"  aenadrly" CGhartihsetirainngceCnltouuridess."       manner
                                                                             the

in  which history   is        sihnotter"wsoivlke,nawffoitrhdsfiactnioenx, celilkleenttherexaadms
in  the texture of
                    "

ple of the method in which Sir Walter Scott was so

successful; indeed, in reading them we are irresistibly

reminded of that author. We are equally fascinated by

the flowing grace of the style, the charm and interest

of the narrative, and the marvellous historical lessons

which it conveys.
  I may give
                s"oGmaethiederiangofCtlohuedirss,"cowpehicbhy  a             citation from
the preface of                                                 is
                                                                             dedicated: --

                                     Filiis carissimis

                 R.A.F. E.M.F. F.P.F. I.G.F.

                           Hanc Corruptae Quidem Ecclesiae
                    Fidei Tamen Incolumis Adumbrationem

                                             D.D.
                                      Pater Amantissimus

  " In ' Darkness and Dawn ' I endeavoured to illustrate

in the form of a story an epoch of surpassing historical

and moral interest, -- the struggle in the first century
200 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

between a nascent Christianity, armed only with the

irresistible might of weakness, and a decadent pagan

ism, supported by the wit, the genius, the religion, the

philosophy, the imperial power, and all the armies of

the world. I showed that the victory of Christianity

was won by virtue of the purity and integrity which it

inspired ; and that nothing was able to resist a faith
which placed the attainment of the ideal of holiness

within the reach of the humblest of mankind. I tried

to show some glimpse, so far as it was possible, of the

frightful spiritual debasement for which a heathendom

which had become more than half atheistical was re

sponsible ; and of the noble character which Christianity
developed into a beauty till then not only unattained,

but unimagined, alike in the high and in the low. So

far as the historic outline was concerned, the picture

was not an imaginative landscape but an absolute photo

graph. Every circumstance, every particular, even of

costume and custom, was derived directly from the

history, poetry, satires, and romances of classic writers,

or from the literature and remains of the early days

of Christianity. If I had not followed this method
II should not have been faithful to the main object

which set before me.

           *и*иФии

  " In ' Darkness and Dawn ' I showed the influences

which enabled the Church to triumph over the world :

it is now my far sadder task to show how the world re-

Iinvaded, and partly even triumphed over, the nominal
Church.  there showed how the Darkness had been
scattered by the Dawn : I have here to picture how the

Sun of Righteousness, which had risen with healing in

his wings, was overshadowed by many ominous and
lurid clouds. ' Of the Byzantine Empire,' says Mr.
          THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                               2ot

Lecky, ' the universal verdict of history is that it con-                                  0, L \

stitutes, without a single exception, the most thoroughly
base and despicable form that civilization has yet

assumed . . . the Byzantine Empire was preeminently

the age of treachery . . . the Asiatic Churches had

already perished. The Christian faith, planted in the
dissolute cities of Asia Minor, had produced many

fanatical ascetics and a few illustrious theologians, but
it had no renovating effect upon the people at large. It

introduced among them a principle of interminable and

implacable dissensions, but it scarcely tempered in any

appreciable degree  their luxury or their sensuality.'  some
                    triumph of Christianity was in
   " The apparent

sense and for a time its real defeat, the corruption of its

simplicity, the defacement of its purest and loftiest

bea"uYtye.t, however much the Divine ideal might be
obscured, it was never wholly lost. The Sun was often

clouded; but behind that veil of earthly mists, on the
days which seemed most dark, it was there always,

flaming in the zenith, and it could make the darkest
clouds palpitate with light. No age since Christ died

was so utterly corrupt as not to produce some prophets

and saints of God. These saints, these prophets, in age

after age, were persecuted, were sawn asunder, were

slain with the sword by kings and priests ; but the next
generation, which built their sepulchres, had, in part at

lea"st'   profited by their lessons.  Chrysostom,  ' cannot  be
         The Church,' said St.

shaken. The more the world takes counsel against
          it
                                                                                      it,
the more  increases; the waves are dissipated, the

roc"kInremreaaidnsingimtmhiosvasbtoler.y', then, the reader will be pre

sented with an historic picture in which fiction has been
 202 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

 allowed free play as regards matters which do not affect
 the important facts, but of which every circumstance
 bearing on my main design is rigidly accurate, or, at any
 rate, is derived from the authentic testimony of con
 temporary Pagans and of the Saints and Fathers of the
 Church of God."

   IFrom many hundreds, the majority of which have
 not had time even to glance at, I have selected a few of

 the letters which my father constantly received, and
 whihmichfomr ythmeot"heLri'sfe loovfingChdreisvtot"ionandpreosethrveerd,botohkasnkainngd

 sermons. I have tried to avoid overloading this memoir

i with eulogistic letters, a plethora of which would have a
j fulsome effect ; but it is impossible to give an adequate

 conception of the results of my father's teaching with
 out introducing at least a few typical letters testifying
 to its quickening and ennobling influence on the hearts
 and lives of men.

                            " August 20, 1874.

" My dear Farrar : Just before I left London I had
the pleasure of receiving your book from yourself, and

it is furnishing both Mrs. Vaughan and me a profit

able and interesting study during our season of rest.

It indeed, marvellous proof of your industry and
is,
              a

                   a

                                               (I

                                                                               a
power of abstraction, that you should have been able to

create such work in the horce subsecivas of such labo

rious life as yours. Its success seems to be an accom

plished fact within the first few weeks  had almost

said days), of its publication. May you receive on all

sides the thanks and the applauses which you have

so richly earned. Active    and useful as your    life has
                            more so than in your  present
been hitherto -- and never
                THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                                          203

great sphere -- I do not wish that education (in the
onfarirt.oweI rlosoeknsfeorowfarthdattowsoeredin)gshyoouuldcoemnpgerollsesd,  the whole
                                                                               ere long,

to give your mature and disciplined powers to the more

direct (though not perhaps the more real) service of the
Ch"urIchhavine  her highest ministries.
                never thanked you as     I   ought and would, for

your wonderful kindness to me            in  my illness. I never

knew till then the soothing capacity of a telegram.
                " Ever your affectionate old friend,
                                              " C. T. Vaughan."

                                                               "July 2nd, 1874.

  "My dear Farrar: Hades confitentem ! I long to

make a clean breast to you on the subject of that
promised review of your great book, which must have

Iappeared so inexplicably deferred. For the first week
after I laid it on my desk was severely indisposed ;

then I took it up and perused it from beginning to end

with the truest admiration for a work of such far-reach

/ing scholarship, noble inspiration and unfailing grace in

treatment. But I felt that could not and must not

write the review. From its honourable initial motto manet

immota fides to its eloquent close I must have arraigned

it for the philosophical fault of draping upon that noble
and sacred central figure the ideas and the morals,
the discoveries and developments which are not neces
sarily propter Christum because post Christum. Why
not arraign it ! you will say ; and certainly in any indict
ment of a book and such an author there would have

been little, probably, to touch our friendship, but the
book appeared to me too precious as an educator to be
204 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

made a theme for polemics ; it appeared so good and

useful, so high and ' sweet ' a presentation of Chris

tianity as you see it (as I wish I could see it) that I

decided to give it over to a hand more skilful, very

likely, and certainly more orthodox.
"This gentleman has accomplished his easier task, and
I shall shortly print the notice. But
are two sins confessed -- a promise    you will  say there
                                        to you   deferred,
and a duty to the public put by. I can only say that
if I am to state my reasons for believing that Chris
tianity must disappear as all faiths -- qua faiths -- have
disappeared and are disappearing, it must be against

some champion whose lofty and noble purpose does not

constantly disarm my convictions. It would take a long

conversation to justify this feeling and to tell you how
tChhorriostug--hlywhIileshaIreloyookurfofaritmh ainnythaenddivminaenyhuCmharinsittsy
                                                                                      of
                                                                                      to

be. Suffice it if you believe my sincerity and take on

trust the things I cannot now write. I shall preface the

notice  with a mention of the book's great popularity.

  " If  I should ask you shortly to let Julian come home

a week before the statutable time, would that be per

missible ? The reason is, we are going for two months

to Norway with the two elder lads, and it is of great

importance to start early to enjoy the long, sub-arctic

daylight; thus a week's grace would make a valuable
difference in our plans. With best regards from us

both to Mrs. Farrar,

                " I am most sincerely yours,

        "Edwin Arnold."
THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                                        205

                                          "Sept. 1, 1874.

  "My dear Dr. Farrar: Why do you allow the

critics to wound you so deeply. They are, after all, but

heartless units, whereas there are at this moment so

many thousands with hearts who are thanking you for
your interpretation and explanation of the ' Precious
Life,' which will thereby be rendered infinitely more

precious to their souls. In a letter this morning my
friend Mr. Coleridge ends his few favourable lines on

the subject thus : ' In such an age as this, I thank God

for such a book on such a subject.' The sympathy of
many loving hearts and a conscience that you have been
the means of doing much good should at any rate be

elements in mitigating the force of the remarks of the

few adverse critics. Pardon my having written thus,

but we are feeling deeply for your vexation.          both  to

   "With affectionate remembrances from us
Mrs. Farrar and yourself,

        " Believe me, my dear Dr. Farrar,
                             " Most sincerely yours,

                         "Charles J. Leaf."

                         "Florence, Oct. 20th, 1877.

" Reverend and dear Sir : I venture to trouble you
with a note to thank you for the precious delight I have
                                          e'vLeirfebeoefnJ,esours.I'
enjoyed in reading your  truly wonderful
No other book, except    my Bible, has

think ever can be, what yours has been. Therefore,

though a stranger and unknown to you, I trust you will
pardon the liberty I have taken. But I have another
cause for gratitude. A few months ago it pleased the
206 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Lord to take from our home a sweet little boy of five

years. He was taken from us suddenly, and one of the

comforts we had given to us in his removal was the

interest he took in your ' Life.' It happened in this
way. In the evening his mother read a portion of
                                          I
                                                                                                 it,
and next morning after left home to attend to my pro

fessional duties she took our little darling to her own

room and reread to him in child's language the portion

of the previous evening. It awakened in his young mind

a remarkable interest for one so young, and questions

like these were put by him to his mother Then was
                                                             :
                                                                '

                                                                          '
Jesus once little boy like me             a ?'      Did Jesus play with
         ?                                       '
                                          Was Jesus real Falegname (car
           'I a
                             ?'
                                       '
marbles as do

penter)  Why were the Jews so unkind to Jesus                                                              ?'

One day during his reading he suddenly said, Mamma,
                                                        '
                                                                        ?' '
Signor Vitta will not go to Heaven.' Why was his
                  Not unless he changes and believes
mother's answer.
               is
                       it '

                            !
on Jesus, because was his people who killed Jesus.'
Signor Vitta     a Jew
   " Frequently                           day was  wet  and  he was                                        kept
                 when the

with his nurse indoors he would come to his mother and

say, Mamma, read little out of the big brown book                                                          !
                                                                                                               '
-- meaning your Life.' It seemed to touch his heart,
'
                                '

                              a

and we never saw him so interested in any narrative as

in the parts of the book relating to the early life of our

Lord. We desire to thank you most heartily for all the

comfort and joy we have derived from your labour, and
to express the wish that He whose blessed life you have
so touchingly narrated will abundantly bless you and

you"rsN.ow word about myself.             am one of the English
         a

                                                   '

                                  I

                                                       a

                                                                                                        '

                                                                                     a
physicians in practice here, and beg to offer you                                                         warm
invitation to occupy our Prophet's Chamber                                                               should
you ever come to Florence for whole day.
                                                                                                         It will
          THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                  207

give my wife and myself sincere pleasure        to welcome
you to our home.

            "lam,
                      " Reverend and dear sir,

                       "Yours very faithfully,

                                             "A. B."

                                                          "i6/ii/'77.
   " In an illness which confined the writer to his bed

room during the early months of this year, his trained

nurse read aloud to him Canon Farrar's two volumes of
the ' Life of Our Lord,' which he had previously read

with so much satisfaction. In the hours of nightly

wakefulness and suffering, he was often comforted and

refreshed by Canon Farrar's careful and conscientious

setting of the precious jewels, the words and acts, as
the ' Urim and Thummin,' of the High Priest of the
Church of Christ, the Lord of Glory.

                                          "Stockholm, Sept. 17, 1883.

" My dear Archdeacon : I have found your name so

lovingly spoken of by Swedes and Norsemen in my re
          that I feel
cent tour,             it only  kind  to write to tell you of it.
               was at  Lund,    two   years ago, one of the
  I" When
Istudents (a philosophy-faculty student), whom casually
joined in looking over the Museum, told me (in poor
German) that he had read your ' Life of Christ ' in
Swedish, and, not to name several             I(nwaatsivepsa)rtwichuo
have spoken of you in my present      others
                                      town,

larly struck to-day in the fact that the commander (an
artillery captain) of an obscure fortress about twenty
   208 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   five miles east of Stockholm told me that he had read
   your ' Life of Christ,' and that several other works of
   yours, which he did not seem to know, were also trans

   lated into Swedish, and that the ' Life of Christ ' was in

   two forms, an expensive and large form with pictures,

   and a small popular edition ; and unless I misunderstood

   him (he was speaking in Swedish), he said that your
   ' Life of Christ ' had gone into more than one edition.
   The old soldier's face brightened as he talked about it

   and you.

     "Though, I believe, as life gets on, you feel less and

   less to care for criticism, favourable or adverse, than

   you once did, yet it must be a joyous satisfaction to

   you to think that you are the unknown teacher of thou
   sands who will never know your face in the flesh ; and

   that you can afford to appeal to the hearts of these,

   when you are nibbled at by stupid old Mrs. Orthodoxy,
   and priggish Miss Criticism, and bitter Mr.
                                                !
   " I have been wandering alone for seven weeks in

   Norway and Sweden, perhaps more interested than

   instructed. But, if you do not fear the sea voyage, I

   could recommend it from its health-giving character

   (equally with the Engadine), as a very accessible spot

   for an overworked man to run off to in an August, any

   yea"r.Forgive my intrusiveness, and believe me,
                                        " Ever yours faithfully,

                                                    "A. S. F."

   yФ St. Petersburg, August 23 >                  J
   " Reverend Father : Sir,  Sept. 4

   "Your admirable work, 'The Life of Jesus Christ,'
   was translated into Russian, and had several editions.

-
                THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS         209

We have nothing similar in our literature, therefore you
will find this work not only in the metropolis, but in

remote parts of our vast empire. My mother is the

proprietress of a country land in the Sovern of Smo

lensk district, Sytscheoka village, Nashokino, with a very
beautiful orthodox church, at a distance of twenty-two

hours from St. Petersburg, and about fifteen hours
from Moscow. Now I take the liberty to ask your
photographic card for presenting to my mother at the
Iday of her names day the 17/29 Sept. I am assured
that a better present  cannot imagine. In the same
time I must inform you that your admirable book pro

duced many times a real consolation in her solitude,

and not only your name is pronounced with veneration,
but your book read always with a full admiration in our
iamily. Now you see that the aim of this letter was

to inform you of my sincere intention, and of the effect

pro"dIucaemd ,  by your book in    Russia.   your very obedient
                sir, with fullest  respect,

servant,               "A. Lomonosoff, F.R.G.S.C."

   " Rev. Father Mr. Farrar, Chaplain of H. M. the
Queen of Great Britain care Mr. Quaritch editor and

bookseller."

   " Most Reverend Father and honoured Sir ! De

lighted with the depth of the thought, the charm of
the narration and the new clear view of your respected

book, ' The Life of Christ,' the idea occurred to me of

consecrating my time to its translation into Russian,
and of thereby acquainting our society with the English
fathers of the Church, as yet quite unknown to the
Russian public.
   210 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " I therefore beg you will grant me your permission

   and benediction to begin my work.

      " But I find it my duty to add, that as there exists in

   Russia an ecclesiastical censure, jealously guarding not

   only the dogmas, but the traditions and rules, I am

   reduced to the necessity of changing the text in some

   places, for only on this condition the book may be

   pub"liGshueiddedinbyRuysosuirans.aint blessing I shall do my best to

   make my translation, as much as possible, correspond

   to the perfect original.
   "Wit"hMtohset          most profound respect I am,

                          Reverend Father and dear Sir,
                          " Your devoted servant,

                                         "Theodor Matveieo."

                                          "Stockholm, April 15th, 1902.

   " My Reverend Sir : It has been my wish for many

   years to send you a few lines from an unlearned layman,

   but have hesitated as I was sure that you would be

   troubled by receiving from all parts of the world, warm

   affections of thanks for the valuable enlightening con

   ten"tsHoowf eyoveurr,  writings.      read  for  the  third  time  ' The
                           after having
   Bible, Its Meaning and Supremacy,' I feel it impossible

   to refrain from sending you the warmest thanks from

   the bottom of my heart, for all the great, beautiful, and

   glorious benefits I have received from the merciful hand

   of God through your works.

      " I have read ' The Life of Christ,' ' Eternal Hope,'
   ' Mercy and Judgment,' ' Seekers after God,' ' Life of
   Christ represented in Art,' ' Life and Work of St. Paul,'
   and now at last ' The Bible, Its Meaning and Suprem

-
          THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                             211

acy,' and now I can say, through these works God has

become to me greater and more glorious ; Christ, my

Saviour, better understood, more loved and indispensa

ble ; the Bible more precious, and my view of things

wider, brighter, and clearer. I have rejoiced with ad

miration that with your amazing erudition you have the

power of expressing the deepest truths in a language

simple enough to be understood by laymen. Your

brilliant exposition, however valuable, is yet of less value

than the great simplicity with which the most important

vit"alBqeuepslteiaonsesd,artehesreetfofroer,thtoanadcceapntswmeryeddebeyplyyoufe. lt, sin

cere gratitude for all the joy and blessing your writings

have for many years given my spirit in its thirst after

the   things of  eternity.      you and may  His  promise  be
   "  May God     richly bless

fulfilled in you. They that turn many to righteousness

shall shine as the stars for ever and ever.
   " With profound respect, your humble and respectful

servant,                        " C. O. B.,

          " Formerly member of the Swedish Parliament."

                                                                        "Oct. 24, 1879.

  "Dear Canon Farrar: Allow one of your many

readers to thank you heartily and sincerely for much
profit, instruction, and benefit received from your ardu
ous, honest, painstaking labours, in bringing, as it were
to our very doors, the living, ever living, story of the
' Divine Artisan ' in his daily life in Palestine. You
have coloured my life since perusing the pages of His
life as narrated so graphically, so truth-lovingly by you
in this nineteenth century.
212 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" Perhaps it may interest you to know that at the

time it was published one Englishman ' up to the neck

in business ' and for a fortnight employing a cab some

eight hours a day, made it the pleasant companion of

solitude in his cab and elsewhere in this big, busy Lon

don ; and not even the pleasure of reading for the first
time Southey's ' Nelson ' or Boswell's ' Johnson ' or
Lockhart's ' Scott ' (which few forget) was equal to the
zest with which he perused page by page the wondrous

record of Jesus the great philanthropist, physician,
tea"chIehr,adanredadSaNvieoaunrdoefr  all mankind.
                                      and Renan.    The Frenchman's

vivid word-paintings of the ' Surroundings,' his charm

ing landscapes, his vivid colouring and animated style

may interest, but, as water can only rise to its own level,

so his conception of a benevolent Frenchman lacking

the divine, has never taken hold of the common people,

who heard the Divine Founder of our common Chris

tianity so gladly ; presenting a marked contrast to the

audience your book has gained amongst all classes in

England. . . .

                 " Bickley' Vicarage, Kent, May 22, 1874.

" My Dear Farrar : I have seldom welcomed a gift

Ibook more than the two volumes which you have so
kindly sent me.  feel sure that they will live, and that

many men of all parties will acknowledge that you have

done good service to the cause of the Great Master in

Iwri"tiAngndthteom.many thousands,    cannot doubt, they will

come as at once widening their knowledge and by it

strengthening their faith, as showing that freedom and
                  THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                         213

reverence are not only not incompatible with each other,

but attain their true proportions and reach their end

only when they work together. From some sections,

chiefly, I imagine, the Extreme Right and the Extreme

Left, you must expect sharp attacks ; but those who set

things at their true value will see in these attacks almost

Iag"uarafneteele   of excellence.  the  kind,  too  kind,  way in
                  humbled by
which you have mentioned my name in the Preface. I

Ifeel that the book owes very little, directly, to anything

that have been able to contribute, and I have seldom

more regretted the pressure of work and care which has

been on me for the last eight or nine months than when

I found it hindering me in what I would so gladly have
done under happier conditions. I am content to think
Ithat long years ago was, perhaps, enabled to open to

your mind the path in which it has gone on so success

fully, and has attained results which I only dreamed of.

At present I feel as if my lot were rather that of a

hewer of wood and drawer of water for the Temple

than to offer the sacrifice or wave the incense or sit in

Moses' seat.
   " When will you come and see us ?
                           " Ever yours affectionately,

                                   "E. H. P[lumptre]."

                                                    "Nov. 17, 1879.
  "My dear Farrar: Cassell's people have at last
sent me the copy of ' St. Paul ' which you kindly destined
for
   "  me.         value it as being     a treasury of thought  and
                                        always turn with the   cer
      I shall     to which I shall

knowledge
tainty of finding much that I would not And elsewhere.
214 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" I must thank you also for the kindly mention of

my"  name in      the Preface.                is ever  done in the world
     No good
                  work, I imagine,
without a semi-chorus of ' detractions rude,' but in the

long run, or even, as in this case, the short run, this is

more than balanced by the knowledge that the work

has been helpful to those whom it was meant to help.

' Securus judicat orbis terrarum.' I am so glad that
Hil"dWa iathndalMl akrignadreestt
                                   have met.
                                   regards,
                   " Yours affectionately,
                                              " E. H. Plumptre."

                                           " The Temple, May 3, 1879.

" My dear Farrar : I have trespassed unduly on

your long friendship by delaying thus long my expres

I Ision of gratitude for the gift of your book. Hitherto,

   have not been able to read it continuously ; have

dipped here and there into its contents, at points of
special interest, finding always something to admire, if

also (as must be the case where one has lived so long
and so intimately with the subject), something also to

hesitate or to pause upon.

   "You need not words of mine, dear Farrar, to assure

you of the success of your great untertaking, both as a

Imatter of public  interest and    of grateful and       devout   --studthye.
                   of the two      you will most          value,
   know which
heartfelt thanks of those whom you help to enter with

a fuller appreciation into those immortal writings, or

the more superficial applause of people who admire

elo"quIenshceall  and assent        without judgment.    I shall use
                    have the       book always near me.
THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS                                                                 215

   as have used The Life of Christ,' whenever want

to be sure that have not overlooked something vital
in the interpretation or enforcement of the inspired
Word.

   " May the highest and best of blessings be upon your
work and upon the workman

                      " Your attached old friend,
                                              "C. T. Vaughan."
it,

     I
                  I

                                                '
                                                                                  !

                                                       I
                  CHAPTER IX

          st. Margaret's, Westminster

   In 1875 Mr. Disraeli (as he then was) offered my

father the crown living of Halifax, which, after some
hesitation, he declined.

" Confidential.   "The Lodge, Marlborough College.

   "  My dear Vesey    :   I am offered    (strictly entre nous)
the   Crown Living of                      of the most impor
                          Halifax, -- one
tant. I shrink from it utterly and am sorry it has been

offered. Moreover Marlboro' has serious claims on me,
and I feel a most deep conviction of my entire unfitness.

IYou have known me for twenty years : Could I do the

work ? Ought to take it ? The decision must, one way
or other, affect my whole future life. Do let me have

your sympathy, your prayers, and what I shall enor

mously    value,  your advice.
                          " Yours affectionately,

                                            " F. W. Farrar.

"I have written to Disraeli to ask till Monday to

decide."

     "The Lodge, Marlborough College, June 15, 1875.

" My dear Vesey : I have been torn by conflicting

advice  and conflicting views  of  duty, but  this afternoon
        without many a pang    of  misgiving
-- not                                        -- telegraphed

                          216
       ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 217

what is probably a final refusal. I believe Halifax will

soon be a Bp's see. Crushed with work or would write

more.                        " Yours affectionately,

                                           " F. W. Farrar."

   In 1876 my father accepted at Mr. Disraeli's hands

the post of Canon of Westminster and Rector of St.

Margaret's, in succession to Canon Conway. Writing of
Lo"rdToBemaecohnesfiwealds,   he says: --
                                                   kind,  though  he
                             always conspicuously
was perfectly well aware that I belonged to the Liberal
school of politics. It was he who, when I was Master

of Marlborough College, offered me the important and

valuable vicarage of Halifax, which, however, I was un

able to accept. He now offered me the Canonry of
Westminster, which is attached by act of Parliament to

the rectory of St. Margaret's. I kept him long waiting
for an answer ; for at that time I had no experience in

parochial work, and in those days the parish was not only
far more densely populous, but also unspeakably more

wretched than it subsequently became. Had I followed
my own inclination, I should have shrunk from so heavy

a burden, and all the more because the church itself was

then as repellently unattractive, with its churchwardens'

Gothic and hideous galleries, as it subsequently became

beautiful and interesting. But, on consulting friends of

some distinction in the Church, they advised me to ac

cept the offer ; and I did so. Dean Wellesley told me
afterwards that if I had asked his advice he would have

recommended me to decline; and that, in that case, it

was certain a higher office would have speedily been
Iplaced at my disposal.
                             do not, however, in the least
Iregret this, though was assured on the highest author
218 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

ity, that the only reason which deterred Lord Beacons-

field from promoting me later on was the outburst of

denunciation which followed the publishing of my ser

mons on 'Eternal Hope.' This is no more a subject of
regret to me than the other. The determination of our

little destinies lies in hands far higher than our own, and

I have every reason to thank God that, throughout my

life, the lot has, by His mercy, fallen to me in pleasant

places. When some kind friend said to Mr. Disraeli, as

he then was, 'Why, you have given preferment to a
                 '
strong  Radical           remark which certainly        required  modi
                  (a
            he only answered,           with a          that  '  vpieewrhsa.'ps"
fication),  in time be brought           round  laugh,  own
                                                to his
I should

   On    the last occasion  when        my   father     ever     met the
great   statesman he said   to him      at  parting,    " Dr.     Farrar,
I have always felt a sincere regard for you."
    It may here be noted that every successive promotion

in  m"yIrfiashtherri'sse  career, from   Marlborough onwards, was
an                        " in point    of income, involving some

pecuniary loss. The head-mastership of Marlborough

was far less lucrative than the command of a large

house at Harrow, and the position involved a larger

expenditure in hospitality. His Westminster preferment

was, again, less lucrative than Marlborough ; while ac

ceptance of the deanery of Canterbury involved a very

heavy sacrifice of income.
   How reluctant he was to leave his beloved Marl
borough, may be gathered from the following letter : --

                                                                "July 26, 1875.

  " My dear Vesey : I must write to tell you how

much your kind help at St. M.'s has cheered me, and

how grateful I am for this proof of your affection and

sympathy.
v
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 219

" The bitterness of death is past. I start to-morrow

for 1 Marine Parade, Folkestone, where we stay until

we exchange the sweetness and freshness of God's

country -- the air full of roses and jasmine scent, the

garden, the river, the downs, the forest, the West Woods
--Wefsotrmitnhsetecr.hokIincghaantgme ostphheerine exapnlidcabdluestycleaprunrelsiesusof
                                                                                          of
                                                                                           a

good, bright, and most flourishing English school for

the dull, close-fisted suspicions, envies, hatred, malice,
and all uncharitableness of grown traders in the ' big,

brutal, brick-bombarded Babylon.' Misery, you see,

ma"keNso,  sport to mock itself.                  --  should  have gone

            I was not offered Calcutta,
I Iif had been.
                 have the feeling one has in sea-sick
nes"sT:h'ePlperaosoefschwuhcickh
                                  me overboard.'  has brought  that                       I
                                   the last week

have stirred and touched boys' hearts and consciences

are a fresh pang. Why God removes me from this

work I know not. I know that all we have in life is
His, not ours, lent, not given, given sometimes and then

taken away, and then given back (sometimes) in the
same or other forms. May He grant this to me, and
give me back, if not the past, and work so sweet and so

encouraging, and so suited to my powers (for that can
not be), at least the country again !

  " I shall work at St. M.'s, at least I shall try. God

knows what will come of it all.
   " Come and see us, and take a prophet's chamber

when you come to Convocation.
   " We shall be starving, but you shall have a crust.
                       " Yours very affectionately,

                                            " F. W. Farrar."
220 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   His ever affectionate old friend, Dr. Vaughan, wrote
thus from the Temple : --

                                                               "April 19, 1876.

   " My dear Farrar : Your letter reaches me here
                    I                        say ' God bless                 '
to-day,  and           long  to be able  to
                                                                 you

with a voice carrying comfort and reassurance Фto your

soul. Such a change is anxious and formidable, and

one is always asking oneself, ' Why made ? ' But I

have an unshaken trust in the hand that is over us, and
in the love above all love, which takes under its charge

the new life, and makes it quietly and half-consciously

absorb rather than replace the old.
   "You will find a thousand interests arising around
you in your new home and work. It
                                             is a grand work
in itself, though no one knows better
                                             than I that the

charge and love of the young can never be equalled in

pathos and tenderness by any other work or any other

oversight which can be given us in this world. Still, it

will be always coming back upon you in the form of

unexpected gratitudes and imperishable affections, seek

ing you out in your new position and ever looking to you
as their natural rest and home. How happy it will make

me to feel that in the great, and sometimes homeless,

world of London you will find at the Temple a love and

a  s"ymI pkantohwy  at once old and new.
                    that you will suffer
                                             yourself  to  look  only

forward and upward, feeling that the lot has fallen, and

that its disposing is of the Lord. ,
                        " Ever affectionately yours,
                                                  " C. T. Vaughan."

   In spite of the natural pangs he felt in leaving Marl

borough, the Rector soon became deeply attached to his

new cure.
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 221

St. Margaret's is an extremely interesting, and, in

spite of the hideous metamorphosis it had undergone at

the hands of Puritans and eighteenth-century Philistines,

an intrinsically beautiful church. Nestling under the

shadow of the great Abbey, the parish church is as old
as the Abbey itself, being meant for the population,

whereas the Abbey church was mainly for the monks.
The parish of St. Margaret's is mentioned in a charter
of King Edgar as early as a.d. 962. Shortly after
the great Abbey of Westminster was established on

Thorney Island, there gathered round its walls an

ever-increasing community of persons, many of them
engaged in work for the Abbey. Others had settled

there for the sake of protection, for hard by was

the Sanctuary, an historical  connection  "  still  pe"rLpietttule
ated in the names " Broad     Sanctuary       and

Sanctuary." In 1064 Edward the Confessor found that

the spiritual attention required by this settlement dis

tracted the monks from the due exercise of their reli

gious duties and meditations. Accordingly the saintly

secular monarch caused a church to be built within the

precincts of the Abbey, the purpose of this edifice being

to serve as a parish church to the inhabitants of the
infant city of Westminster. The old round-arched
Saxon building stood until the reign of Edward I, when

it was pulled down, and a new church raised in its stead.

In the reign of Edward IV the parishioners modernised

the building into the early Perpendicular Gothic edifice

which still stands. At a later date the church was

saved from destruction by the zeal of the parishioners,

who demolished the scaffolding which Protector Somer

set had raised round it with a view to pulling it down to

make way for a new palace for himself.
   The complete restoration of the anoient and historic
222 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

church was the new Rector's first task. The restora

tion had indeed been contemplated in his predecessor's

time, and a small sum of money had been collected, but

nothing further had been done.

No trait was more characteristic of my father than

his  ardent devotion to        --thenotbeoanulyty    of  God's temple.
     passionately desired                          that  the services of
He

the temple should be, not indeed ornate, but decorous

--andthasttattheely,faabnrdic  resonant with exquisite melody,               but
                               should lack no structural dignity             and

grace which could be bestowed on and should glow
                               a
with the rich and vivid colouring for which he had aa
                                                           it,
passion almost Oriental.                                                      1a

When he went to Marlborough the chapel was a                                                     a

bare and barnlike erection, which was, structurally,
perhaps past praying for; but he never rested till at

least the interior had been beautified and enriched by
Bodley's designs, till the bare walls glowed with frescoed
panels, carved scroll work, and gilded tracery. The

chapel being dedicated to St. Michael and All Angels,

he commissioned Spencer Stanhope to paint series of

frescoes representing the angels of Scripture, which

for beauty of design and delicacy of colouring are among

that artist's masterpieces.

When the new school chapel was built, in 886, these

frescoes, together with the panel work, were transferred

to it. Some exquisite windows by Burne-Jones and
Morris were also added during Farrar's mastership.

On coming to St. Margaret's he found the interior

of what had been originally fine Perpendicular church

metamorphosed into Georgian changeling of the ugliest

and  dreariest   type.         Hteoav"ythegallreercieesd,ingwhifcohrehmeayd  father
was  wont to    compare                                                        of

gorilla," ran round three sides of the building, the choir

     V
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 223

and organ being, as was usual in Georgian churches, in

the west gallery ; a sham apse of lath and plaster,
painted blue with gilt stars, desecrated the chancel ; the

fine Perpendicular mouldings of the windows had been

destroyed   by   P"urtwitao-ndsecokrerms er"e;  Philistines ; the pulpit was
one of the  old                                 and the walls were thickly

plastered with ugly mural tablets setting forth the virtues

of worthy citizens, long since forgotten, while on the
other hand certain beautiful and interesting Tudor monu

ments were plastered up and out of sight. The very

spirit of Georgian apathy and Philistinism seemed to be

brooding over this once beautiful church.

   This was a state of things which the Rector could not
tolerate for a single day. With impetuous energy he

set about the Herculean task of sweeping clean away at

once the accumulated filth and the eighteenth-century
erections which disgraced the fabric. The wooden gal

leries, together with the sham apse, were ruthlessly
demolished, the plaster scraped from the walls, and the

stones pointed. His method of dealing with the hideous

mural tablets was distinctly original. They could not

well be    d"esfatrcouyletdy,,"  but the Rector,  having   obtained  the
requisite                         consigned the   bulk of  them to   the

decent obscurity of the belfry tower ; while the few that

were beautiful and of interest were released from their

plaster shrouds, cleaned, freshly coloured where neces
sary, and placed in appropriate positions. The original
mouldings of the windows, which had been mostly re

placed by a plain and tasteless pattern, were restored

according to the design of the few that fortunately

survived.

The ceiling was covered in with oak, an oak screen

was erected, and the choir and the main body of the

church filled with carved oak pews. A carved stone
224 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

"putwlpoit-depcakinetre.d" with glowing colours replaced the old

The pride and glory of St. Margaret's church is the

noble east window, perhaps the most beautiful and
                                  It was
interesting window in England.            originally  VpIrIe,
sented by the town of Dort, in  Holland,  to Henry

to commemorate the marriage of his son Arthur with

Catharine of Aragon, and contains the only surviving

portrait of that prince. Intended to be erected in

Henry VII's chapel in Westminster Abbey, which

was not yet completed at the time, the window was

VIIIplaced pro tempore in Waltham Abbey. The relations
of Henry  with Catharine of Aragon would not

be likely to inspire him with any wish to claim the

window for Westminster ; and in Waltham Abbey, ac
cordingly, it remained till the dissolution of monasteries,
when it was removed to New Hall. There it remained

till the civil wars, when it was taken down and buried

underground by General Monk to save the treasure

from the violence of the Puritans ; but at the Restora

tion it again saw the light. About 1740 it became the
subject of a bargain, and was sold to a private gentle

man for fifty guineas, whose son, some twenty years

later, realised a handsome profit by selling for four
it

                                                                  ;

                                                                    it,
                                                                                             a
hundred guineas, to the restorers of St. Margaret's,

where has found its permanent resting place.

The authorities of Westminster Abbey instituted

lawsuit to recover what they considered, perhaps not

unjustly, to be their property but the then Rector and

churchwardens of St. Margaret's, holding possession to

be nine points of the law, fought stoutly to retain what

had been for so long their own, and after prolonged liti

gation won the lawsuit and kept the window. When

my father was restoring the church he found that the

\
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 225

window had suffered rather seriously from damp during

its prolonged sojourn in the earth, and that the colour
was flaking off in parts. To preserve it from future

damage it was thought necessary to cover it with a fac

ing of plate glass. This somewhat detracts from the

appearance of the window, but it is hoped that it will

have the desired effect of saving this priceless treasure

of art for future generations. The interstice of masonry,

between the moulding proper to this window and that of

the window put in during the Civil War, was filled with

beautiful fresco work by Clayton and Bell.

The churchyard, when the new Rector came, was

filled with crumbling tombstones with indecipherable

legends, the vacant spaces between which held muddy
pools of water in rainy weather. He boldly determined

to sink these obsolete memorials six feet under the earth.

After obtaining the necessary "faculty," and getting

with infinite labour and the exercise of much tact the

permission of surviving relatives, this was accomplished ;

and Londoners of to-day may well be grateful for the

fine tract of close green turf which forms such an effec

tive foreground to the Abbey. An inner vestry was

added, and the final structural improvement was the

addition of the beautiful  west porch in 1891.      interest
                           the features which give
  I may mention among

to the church a carved reredos in lemon wood, Italian
work -- circa 1768. This represents Our Lord at supper
with the two disciples at Emmaus. One of the disciples

is a portrait of Cardinal Ximenes.

  I have dealt with the restoration of St. Margaret's at

some length, because the story is very characteristic of

my father's zeal for the house of the Lord, and also

of his thoroughness, energy, and diligence. None but

those who remember the church as it was, and are able
226 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

to contrast this picture mentally with its present condi

tion, can realise how gigantic was the task, nothing less

than the transformation of the whole building from roof
to floor. And none but those who were behind the

scenes can realise the labour it cost, the hundreds of

letters it involved, and the efforts needed to raise the

necessary funds, a feat that would have been impossible

for a man of less commanding influence.

Having restored the fabric and made it worthy of its

ancient traditions, my father proceeded further to beau

tify the church, in which he now felt the greatest pride,

by filling the windows with stained glass. When he

came to St. Margaret's there was only one stained glass

window in the building, the glorious east window. The

Rector successfully exerted all his influence with his

friends to procure the erection of a series of windows

commemorative of the history of the church, and made

further interesting by quatrains inscribed under them,

specially  composed for him by some of our   "grMeaetnestI  poets.
            my father has told the story in                 Have
Of these
Known," from which I have introduced some extracts

for the interest of the personal reminiscences involved.
   " The printers of London gave me a beautiful stained

glass window in memory of the first English printer,

who lies buried in the church, and whose signature

occurs in its records as an auditor of its accounts. I

wanted to place four lines under the window, and asked

the Laureate to write them for me, suggesting that he
might make them turn on Caxton's motto, ' Fiat Lux.'

I was with him when he wrote them, in his bedroom at

the deanery of Westminster, and witnessed, so to speak,

their birth throes, until he became satisfied with them.

He declared that they had cost him more trouble than
many a substantial poem. They are : --
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 227

" Thy prayer was ' Light -- more Light -- while Time shall last ! '
  Thou sawest a glory growing on the night,
  But not the shadows which that Light would cast
  Till shadows vanish in the Light of Light.

  " When I     placed  the Jubilee  window   of Queen Vic
               in St.  Margaret's,           Mr. Browning
toria's reign                       I asked

to write the quatrain under it for me. He did so, and
these were the four highly characteristic lines : --

" Fifty years' flight ! wherein should he rejoice
  Who hailed 4heir birth, who as they die decays ?
  This : -- England echoes his attesting voice --
  Wondrous and well : thanks, Ancient Thou of Days.

   "The very quaintness of the lines, -- their charac

teristic oddness of collocation, as in ' Ancient Thou of

Days,' -- the fact that they were written in the poet's

special style of what his critics called ' Browningese,'
made them more interesting to me than if they had been
smooth and commonplace. They illustrate the cause
which made people call him unintelligible; namely,
that his sentences frequently did not 'construe,' but
required some long subauditur to show their dependence.

   " Yet so far was he from being careless about the

lines, that he took the trouble of a long walk to St.
Margaret's to see if they were correctly punctuated on
the brass plate underneath the window. He found that

the engraver had altered a comma, and requested me to

have it at once corrected.
   " When the fine west window to Sir Walter Raleigh

was given to me by Americans to commemorate the

Ifact that the headless body of that great explorer lies

buried in St. Margaret's, chose Mr. Lowell (who was
then the American Ambassador) as the fittest poet to
write the memorial quatrain.
228 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

       " The New World's Sons, from England's breasts we drew
              Such milk as bids remember whence we came ;

         Proud of her Past, whereupon our Future grew :
             This window we inscribe to Raleigh's fame.

  "When I told Mr. Childs (of Philadelphia) how

closely Milton had been connected with St. Margaret's,
where his banns of marriage were published, and where
his dearest wife (' my late espoused saint ') and infant
daughter lie buried, he gladly consented to give a

window to Milton's memory. For this window I asked

Mr. Whittier to write the inscription.

       " The New World honours him whose lofty plea
         For England's freedom made her own more sure,
           Whose song, immortal as its theme, shall be
         Their common freehold while both worlds endure.'1

The bodies of certain Cromwellians were basely

ejected from Westminster Abbey at the Restoration.

Among those thus foully outraged was the body of
Admiral Blake. My father rejoiced to pay a belated

tribute to Blake's memory, by inducing naval officers

and others to subscribe to a window to  his  memory  in

St. Margaret's. He thus writes : --
" His dishonoured resting-place is that promiscuous

and forgotten pit, which to the shame of our indifference

covers the mortal remains of Pym, of Strode, of May

the historian and poet, and of Cromwell's venerable

mother. Into that pit in St. Margaret's churchyard

their bodies were flung, two hundred and twenty-eight

years ago, by the meanest act of revenge upon the dead
which ever disgraced an English king and an English

Parliament. And no honour has ever since been shown

to the man whose splendid courage held Portugal and

France in awe ; who chastised the pirates of Tunis ;
who defended England against the fleets of Van Tromp
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 229

and De Ruyter and De Witt, and who died on his way
from that great victory at Santa Cruz, in which he

attacked and destroyed the Spanish fleet after deeds

unsurpassed even by Grenville or by Nelson."

   For the Blake window the following lines were written
by Sir, then Mr., Lewis Morris : --

Kingdom or Commonwealth was naught to thee,
   But to crown England queen o'er every sea,

Strong sailor, dauntless patriot, true and just,
   Rest here! our Abbey keeps no nobler dust.

For the Lloyd window Sir Edwin Arnold wrote : --

      A master printer of the press, he spake
By mouth of many tongues, he swayed

      The pens which break the sceptres.
                     Good Lord, make

Thy strong ones faithful and thy bold afraid.

" My dear son, Cyril Lytton Farrar, was Lord Lytton's

godson, and was named after him : and when this glad-

hearted and gifted youth died at Peking at the age of
twenty-one, Lord Lytton contributed the lines placed

under the memorial  window in  the vestry of      St.

Margaret's : --

 " Dead almost ere his race of life began,
Far is his boyhood's grave in bright Cathay :

   Farther beyond our reach the future man,

Whose life has now begun the larger Day."

   And -- " Mr. Oliver Wendell HФolmes wrote for me
the quatrain which is carved on his memorial tablet : --

          " Afar he sleeps whose name is graven here
          Where loving hearts his early doom deplore ;

              Youth, promise, virtue, all that made him dear,
          Heaven lent, earth borrowed, sorrowing to restore."
230 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   The death in 1891 of my brother Cyril in China, where
he was an officer in the "Customs," was a great grief

to my father. Cyril was a youth of rare promise, of a
singularly gay and sunny temperament, rich in artistic
talents, and one who amid manifold temptations pre
served the purity and simplicity of his childhood, and
" kept the spell of home affection still alive in his heart."

Of his early death my father wrote : " All life will be

darker to the end because of it." His home letters,

some brimming over with pure fun and merriment, some
describing his life in China with graphic descriptive

touches which gave promise of great literary power,

others, dealing candidly with his religious difficulties and
spiritual aspirations, have been enshrined by his father
in a volume of touching interest, printed for private

circulation, " Memorials of Cyril Lytton Farrar." At
this time Dr. Vaughan wrote to him : --

                                 "The Temple, February 8, 1891.

" My dear old Friend : I could not read unmoved

the tidings of your great sorrow. The loss of a dear

son seems to me (to whom it can only be an imagina
tion) almost too hard a trial to be lived through. But
you are borne up by  a firmer    faith than mine. The  dis
tance adds to the    bitterness   -- depriving you of  the

sorrowful comfort of looking upon the dear face in death

and laying the precious body in its last bed.
I " May God
               comfort   you and the dear patient sufferer
beside you --  and dear
                          Eric too, and the loving sisters.
hope, and I hear, that your great effort of last Mon

day was got through before you actually knew of the

departure from earth.
           " Always, in joy and sorrow,
                 " Affectionately and gr"atCe.fuTll.yVyaouugrsh,an."
ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 231

During the restoration of St. Margaret's, services were

held in the Chapter House of Westminster Abbey, and

with characteristic liberality the Rector seized the oppor

tunity thus afforded him of inviting Max M tiller and

other distinguished laymen to occupy the pulpit.
   The restored church soon became the centre of in

tense spiritual activity, and one of the most popularly
frequented in London. To meet the demand for seats

of the hundreds who flocked from all quarters of the

town to hear the golden-voiced preacher, a system was

adopted which seemed to be equitable to regular parish

ioners and strangers alike. There were no pew-rents,

but sittings were assigned to members of the congre

gation, and reserved for them, if they chose to be
punctual, till the moment the organ began to play. From

that moment all seats became free, and strangers were

at liberty to occupy any pew of which the regular ten
ants were not already in possession. The Rector himself

almost invariably preached on Sunday mornings, and

the sight of the morning congregation was deeply im

pressive. Not only was every pew quite full, but the

chairs in the aisles, the chancel steps, the step of the

altar rails, even the steps of the pulpit itself were eagerly

seized upon. Hassocks were passed out from the pews

to seat others, many were glad to stand throughout the

service, and frequently scores who had been unable to

find even standing room overflowed into the adjacent

Abbey.     Tdihffeers,t--yle boutf  these sermons  has been criticised,
                                     no one dare   deny that the elo
-- tastes

quent pastor fed the spiritual hunger of thousands of

earnest men and women. And his words rang out with

authority, and came home to the hearts and consciences

of men, because his hearers felt that the passionate elo

quence was no mere rhetoric, but the language of utter
    232 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

    sincerity and intense conviction, the language of one
    who was, as has been said of Luther, a " Gott-ertrunkener

    Mensch," a man steeped in God, who preached not for

    effect, but lived the truth he preached, who loved right

    eousness with all the force of his being and hated sin

    with a perfect hatred. The wife of the present writer

    was once walking with the Rector in the Chapter Garden
    at Westminster, and ventured to say, " That was a won

    derful sermon you preached this morning; do you mind
                                               a"ll,Buetvewryhawt owrodu?l"d   "Ab
    my asking do you believe it
    solutely," replied my father.                                             you do

        after death, you found was partly mistake after
    all?" " should go before the throne and say, fol
    I if,                                  it              a
               I
                                                            I
                                                                     I'
    lowed       tmo yguriedaesomn ea.'n"d  my conscience,  the highest things
       had

    To the question of my father's sermons shall recur

    in the next chapter.

    St. Margaret's had long been the church of the House

    of Commons. The Rector strove to render this official

    connection, which had almost fallen into abeyance, real
                                                                              a

    and vital one. Seats were reserved at Sunday morning

    services for members, and the Speaker, several officials

    of the House, and many of the members were regular

    attendants. Special services were held in St. Margaret's

    to commemorate the Queen's Jubilee and on other occa
    sions, and the emphasis thus given to religious observ

    ance in connection with the great council of the nation

    was felt to be of real value.

    The selection, therefore, of the Rector of St. Mar

    garet's to be Chaplain to the House of Commons, in

    1890, was very appropriate. My father held this office

    for five years and greatly enjoyed the opportunities                         it

    gave him of making friends among the members, many

    of whom, from the Speaker downward, were warmly

    attached to their Chaplain.

."
        ST. MARGARET'S, WESTMINSTER 233

   On being appointed Archdeacon of Westminster in

1883, he wrote thus to his friend, Archdeacon Vesey : --

                            "      Dean's  Yard,  Westminster,  April 28.

                               17

" My dear Vesey : It was the greatest pleasure to
                            How odd is one's destiny. Here I am
shteraarndferodm--yoliuk.e
                            a desolate wreck on the lonely shore !
in a title which of all others I could most loudly have

Ideclared should never possess, and which seems to me
of all others to suit me least ! No emoluments, and no

duties, except Ruri-decanal. Certainly no gaiters or

shovel-hat -- father of cooking pots ! only an apron on

grand occasions. My little granddaughter asks whether

I shall carry crumbs in it to the sparrows ? and whether
it will be as pretty as mother's lawn-tennis apron ? I
reply that I shall have it black, because it saves wash
ing. Mrs. Farrar won't let me stir about any change of

dress till I have consulted you. Tell me ought one,

when archidiaconally dressed in an evening, to wear

apron, silk stockings, knee-breeches, and shoes with
        buckles ? I
silver                      am as ignorant as a babe.           Life.'
        am very glad        that you like ' My Object in
  "I                        " Yours very affectionately,

                                                  " F. W. Farrar."
           CHAPTER X

           THE PARISH PRIEST

Of my father as a parish priest three of his former

curates, the Right Rev. Bishop Montgomery, the Rev.
W. E. Sims, Vicar of Aigburth, Liverpool, and the Rev.

W. J. Sommerville, Rector of St. George the Martyr,
Southwark, testify in the present chapter ; my brother,
the Rev. Eric Maurice Farrar, Vicar of St. John's,

Hoxton, also a former curate, writes of his temperance

work. To these testimonies I need not add. They

afford convincing proof that the man who was known to

the world as a great preacher, a profound scholar, and a

man of unparalleled literary activity, was at the same

time the energetic and efficient ruler of one of the best-

organised  "pAartisHheosmeisn,"  London.   From time to time
charming                         to which  every grade of parish

worker was welcomed and truly made to feel "at home"

gave a concrete embodiment of the spirit of loyal and

hearty devotion, which knit together the pastor and his

flock. These cheerful and eminently social parish gath
erings were known in the family as " The Herrings," and
certainly were somewhat densely packed. In reference

to parish work, my father was wont humorously to

allude to himself, his wife, his daughters, and the curates

respectively, as "the Rector, the Director, the Miss Di

rectors, and the Correctors."

                                 334
THE PARISH PRIEST  23s

   Bishop Montgomery writes : --
   "When Canon Farrar came to Westminster in 1876

he had had no experience of the science of parish work.

It is a science, and one in which growth is always pos

sible, for it is a little world to be governed, which includes

every sort of character and problem ; and unless a man
is ever pondering, he is likely to discover one day that
he has omitted even to think of his whole classes of

parishioners in any complete sense : for example, all
the publicans in the parish, or the servants, or the

young men lodgers, or the cabbies, or the police.

  "As almost the first of the Canon's new curates, I

strongly advised him to leave the details of parish work
to us, to whom it was a familiar science, and of course to

the large band of workers under us. It was obvious

that the Canon was not brought to Westminster for
the parish work, but for the sake of the Abbey and of
St. Margaret's pulpit, as a factor in the religious life of
London. Upon the whole, the Rector accepted this

position, whilst he kept himself in constant touch with
parish work, and himself took part in certain work ; for

example, he regularly taught for some years in the
schools, those schools to which he was so deeply

attached, headed as they were by the remarkable man
who was known and loved and trusted by every one con
nected with the parish and the church. The Rector,

with his eager and sympathetic nature, visited of course
to a certain extent. Ere long he encountered an expe
rience novel to him, but familiar to us who had grad
uated in the school of parish life. He called one day
at the house of a parishioner, about whom it might be
said that he was suffering from ' over-exertion in drink.'

The caller was dismissed with contumely. It was long

Ibefore the dear Canon recovered from the shock, and
236 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

suppose we young fellows laughed, and begged him all

the more earnestly to reserve himself for those who

called for him, whilst we did that rougher work for

which our more brutal natures were better fitted.
   " Rough it was indeed in those days in part. Old Pye

Street still stood. I think it would have been difficult
to have found a spot more full of crime. A lay reader

of ours knew London life, and had seen a house in that

street more than once strewn with silver plate. To him
it was ' pewter.' He was no detective, and could never
have shown his face there if he had given information.

The whole street drank hard whilst such plunder lasted.

One case which came under my own experience may be
of interest as an instance of low life under the shadow

of the Abbey. I received a message one day to admin

ister Holy Communion to a dying girl in Pye Street.

She was in the last stages of consumption, and her story

was to the effect that her husband lived on her wages,

which he forced her to obtain by a life of sin. Some
memory of her childhood made her ask for the Sacra

ment before    she died,  more sinned  against than   sinning.
               case for   giving what  she asked for  without
   " It was a

overmuch examination. She summed up her repentance

in one sentence : ' I have worked very hard, and I am

very tired.' The husband was playing dominoes with a

companion whilst his wife was dying behind a screen.
I did what I could to make all decent and in order
Ibehind the screen whilst
                           gave her the Sacrament.

The    game,   however, was not intermitted.       both  as  a
   "  But the   transformation of St. Margaret's,

building and as a spiritual force, was the crown of the

Canon's work as Rector. It is no derogation to the

earnest men who were in power in the parish before him

to say that Canon Farrar revolutionised the church from
THE PARISH PRIEST  237

every point of view. It was simply that the old order

changed. No one who enters the church now can realise
what it was in 1876, with the hideous galleries blocking
the windows, the 'three-decker' with the dirty velvet

cushion (the special aversion of the new Rector), and
the general appearance of neglect caused by the squalid
appointments of the church. With characteristic energy

he determined to sweep the place clean, whatever the

cost might be. He put all his tremendous force into
his appeals : his wonderful voice rang through the
building pleading for the worthy restoration of a build
ing scarcely inferior to any in London for historic
interest. The congregations were of course enormous.

Constantly those who could not gain admittance betook
themselves to the Abbey instead. The House of Com
mons seats (for it is the church of the House of Com
mons) were filled. Americans made it a point to
worship, not only in the Abbey, but also to listen
to Canon Farrar in his parish church. Soon a large
choir was formed, homely in one sense, a truly parochial
choir, composed of men who were never absent, and
whose numbers were only limited by the space in the
chancel. The sidesmen and churchwardens never

failed to be present, and were hard-worked officials in
their attempts to cope with eager throngs collected from

all parts of London, and indeed of the world. I have

seen the church so full, again and again, that it was
almost a painful sight. To many of us it has seemed
that the Rector's ministry in his own church was almost

a greater thing than his preaching in the Abbey. In

the parish church his preaching had a more homely
note. He was addressing his own people, and his

sermons were all the more helpful to earnest-going

people because they were not quite so much tours de
238 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

force. Thousands came to be fed by a man who believed
in righteousness, and was not afraid of thundering

against those who did not. Upon the whole I think his

most helpful sermons^ were  those which explained  a book
of the Bible in its broad                          on the
                            outlines. A sermon

Book of Job haunts me to-day. Equally effective were
his sketches of men and women, whether in the Bible or

outside of it. Indeed I remember the feeling that passed

through the congregation one Sunday evening when he

spoke of a Frenchman named Arouet and of his public

spirit, and then after a thrilling pause reminded them
that he was speaking of Voltaire. No one can doubt

that a very deep and beneficent influence was exerted

on broad Christian lines by the Rector of St. Margaret's,

an influence felt by thousands in all parts of the world.

Voice, manner, and matter, all combined to make men

ready to go back and do a better week's work in conse

quence of the Rector's sermon.

   "The church was shut for about a year, while the
work of restoration went on under Sir Gilbert Scott and

a distinguished committee. Meanwhile the congrega

tion worshipped in the Chapter House, lent by the

Dean and Chapter ; and when the work was nearly com
pleted it was difficult to believe that it was the same

building. A little girl, upon first seeing the effect,

exclaimed, 'Why, mother, this is heaven.' Not much

Iof great importance was discovered during the restora
tion.  remember spending an evening with the Abbey

clerk of works in a vault under the altar, trying to find

Raleigh's head, but without success.
   " One is inclined to linger lovingly over the affection

ate parish life of that period. There was no particle of

disunion ; money was forthcoming for every purpose.

Every worker seemed to consider that there was no

X\
            THE PARISH PRIEST                            239

parish like St. Margaret's. The yearly reunions of old
boys, of churchworkers, of every sort of parish organi
sation, were charming. Nor is it possible to omit (how
ever much she might desire it) some allusion to the
conspicuous, but inobtrusive, part taken by the Rector's

wife in every parish movement. Those who were there
in those days can alone know what it meant. The

Rector was, I think, the first to allow that one depart

ment at least was better in his wife's hands than in his

own. It is still mirth-provoking to recall the subject

of parish accounts during the first few months of the

Rector's reign. Was it not the duty of the Rector to

keep the parish accounts himself? Could a distinguished

Head-master and scholar not cope with so small a matter

as that ? It was but a short time to the end of the
year, and we awaited the result with bated breath. At

length, about Christmas time, the moment came when

the Rector's balance-sheet must be prepared. It was

an occasion not to be forgotten when the distinguished

scholar produced a sheet of paper scored all over, and

crossed with figures, which represented the accounts of

numerous    organisations.  quite  make  these accounts  come

    " ' My  dear, I can't

straight.'

  " I do not think any human being ever made anything
out of them. It was a day of laughter, tender and over

flowing.

  "The Rector's wife after this took charge, with

boundless success.                                       But
   " Parish life is a prosaic subject to the public.

it means a great deal to those who find in it their little

world, and a very happy, human, and useful world.
Some of us think that the St. Margaret's career of Canon

Farrar contains the brightest and most permanently
240 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

useful portion of his life after he left Marlborough, and
that no place is so fitted for a memorial of him as his
parish church."

   The Rev. W. E. Sims writes : --
   " The career of a parish priest whose days are passed

in ministering to the needs of the people committed to
his care, and who finds his reward in the 'joy of doing
good,' whatever may be its real intrinsic value, affords
perhaps little that is interesting to the general reader.
Its success is the result of diligent attention to details
that viewed separately seem to be trifles, and although
' perfection is no trifle ' the consideration of multifari
ous items making up 'the common round, the daily
task,' is apt to be tedious. The annals of a parish are
seldom rich in romantic incident, and a plain unvarnished
tale of industrious devotion to simple duties lacks force
in its appeal to the imagination. And yet no account
of Dr. Farrar would be complete that left out of sight his
labours as Rector of St. Margaret's for the long period
of nineteen years. The world knows that he was an
accomplished scholar, a brilliant writer, and a preacher
of prophetic power, but only those who were brought
into close association with him at Westminster are
fully aware of the influence that he exercised in the less

conspicuous sphere of a pastor. It is no exaggeration

and implies no adverse reflection upon his predecessors
to say that he completely changed the conception of
parochial work that prevailed in the parish of St. Mar
garet's, and made a church, that probably had been saved
from demolition chiefly on account of its historical
associations, the centre of an active and vigorous reli
gious life. His fame as an orator and an author whose
name was 'a household word ' attracted immense con
THE PARISH PRIEST  241

gregations with the result that ample means were found
for the prosecution of enterprises, having as their object
the welfare of the parishioners, that were impossible
under any previous regime. Nor was material provi
sion for the efficient conduct of parochial organisations
the only, or chief, outcome of the Rector's efforts. He

possessed to a remarkable degree the power of com

municating his own enthusiasm to others, and gathered
round himself a large, devoted, and ever increasing band
of workers, both men and women, who derived inspira
tion from his teaching and gave practical effect to
schemes suggested for the social amelioration or reli

gious improvement of the people. It was Dr. Farrar's

policy to allow his colleagues and other helpers an

absolute freedom in the management of these various

agencies when once the particular object had been

approved and the proposed method of attaining it ex
plained. There was no unnecessary interference, but
always the keenest interest and sympathy. Easily ac
cessible at all times the Rector would lay aside the
unfinished sermon or book to listen to reports of the

progress of parish affairs, and apparently the more
minutely they descended into details, the greater satis
faction they gave him. His wonderfully retentive mem

ory, so remarkably displayed in public utterances, enabled
him also to retain a multiplicity of particulars respect

ing the organisations of the parish and the circumstances
of individual parishioners, astonishing to those who

thought not unnaturally that his incessant literary activ
ities and the many important claims made upon his

time and energy as Canon of Westminster as well as
Rector of the parish, must leave but little leisure for the

comparatively minor duties that engross the attention
of less busy men. But Dr. Farrar made it a regular
242 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

part of his work to familiarise himself with everything
that was going on. He required his colleagues to report
all cases of sickness or distress, and presided regularly
at the meetings of district visitors, where the circum
stances of the infirm or indigent were fully discussed
with a view to their relief ; and he frequently requested
the present writer to let him know of any persons in
affliction who might be glad of a personal visit of sym
pathy or condolence. Systematic house-to-house visita
tion had, of course, to be left to the curates ; but where
the Rector's presence could afford any comfort, he was
always ready to go. He 'reckoned nothing human
alien to himself.' When Dr. Farrar was appointed, the
parish of St. Margaret's presented many features of
unusual difficulty. The church, built in close proximity
to the Abbey, was scantily attended, it badly needed
restoration, and was surrounded by a churchyard that
was an eyesore to the neighbourhood. The new Rector
immediately addressed himself to the task of remedying
this unsatisfactory state of things. His sermons at
once attracted enormous and influential congregations,
the services were improved, the church was completely

restored and greatly beautified at a cost of .Б30,000, and

the adjacent desert of dilapidated tombstones was con
verted into a pleasant open space, with wide approaches
to St. Margaret's and the Abbey. What took place in
and around the church was typical of what happened
also in the parish.

  "A large part of the area was occupied by the palace

of Westminster, palatial government buildings, and pub

lic or private offices. In close vicinity to these were
mean streets, inhabited chiefly by the very poor. As the

march of improvement gradually cleared some of these
away, they were replaced by huge blocks of highly
THE PARISH PRIEST  243

rented flats, occupied largely by people with homes
elsewhere who hardly recognise any responsibility
towards the district of their temporary sojourn. No

class of parishioners is more inaccessible to the clergy,

as a rule, than the inhabitants of flats. It would seem
speculatively improbable that in a parish such as I

have described any great work could be done out
side the walls of the church. And yet before long
it had become the home of almost every kind of paro

chial organisation. At Dartmouth Hall, a disused Dis

senting meeting-house situated in a street at that time
notorious for poverty and vice, and acquired by the
Rector for that purpose, there were established mis

sion services, Sunday-schools, clubs for working-men
and working-women, and for young lads and girls,
sewing classes, Bible readings, a Band of Hope, and

popular Saturday evening entertainments. At the new

mission room in another part of the parish there were
Sunday services for children and infants, Bible classes,
mothers' meetings on two days in the week, Girls'

Friendly Society classes, temperance meetings and
concerts, literary and scientific lectures, and a youths'
Institute furnished with a gymnasium. Classes of in
struction for Sunday-school teachers were held in the
vestry of the church and a Bell Ringers' Society met in
a room in the tower under the belfry. In addition to
these organisations of a purely parochial character large
National Schools, fully equipped with every requisite for
the work of education, were maintained for the benefit

of the children of the neighbourhood and used on Sun

days for religious purposes. In all these agencies the
Rector took the keenest personal interest. He presided

invariably at meetings of the managers of the day
schools. He visited the Sunday-schools. He lectured
244 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

on Dante, Milton, and other subjects of interest before
the Literary Society. He kept himself in touch with
the secretaries and treasurers, the teachers, the mem
bers of various committees, the choirmen and all who in
any way helped forward the work of St. Margaret's.
When candidates were being prepared for confirmation,
it was his rule to make the acquaintance of each one

individually and to address them collectively at least
once a week.

   " It is not easy to convey to a reader unfamiliar

with the details of parish life an idea of the inces

sant labour involved in these manifold duties. A

clergyman's work is never finished : at the beck and
call of all who need his services, and they are many ;
the victim of constant interruptions, with a correspon

dence larger than that of many business men, -- Dr.
Farrar usually wrote about twenty letters a day, -- with

a congeries of societies, such as those to which refer
ence has been made, claiming unremitting attention to
maintain their efficiency, for all clerical experience
proves that, however zealous an incumbent's helpers
may be, these organisations cannot be kept in a vigorous
state of usefulness without much personal effort and
self-sacrifice. When we consider these facts and re
member that this constant daily wear and tear was
maintained during all those nineteen years of Dr. Far-
rar's incumbency of St. Margaret's, it becomes a matter
of astonishment that, amid so many distractions, he
found opportunity for the preparation of sermons that

display to perhaps a greater extent than any contem
porary pulpit discourses the fruits of culture, and the
composition of works that have attained a wider celeb
rity than was supposed to be possible for scholarly
productions in the province of theology. But Dr.
THE PARISH PRIEST                                                245

Farrar worked in the spirit of that line of Goethe's

'unhasting, unresting,' and, because he was never idle,
found time for everything. He usually wrote standing
at a table desk near the window of his study which
overlooked Dean's Yard, and there he might be found
immersed in literary production or parochial business
at almost any hour of the day. Sometimes during the
last few years in Westminster he felt that the respon
sibilities attached to the maintenance of a highly
organised parish, in combination with his other work,

involved too great a strain ; but he never spared himself,
and even when absent during his autumn holiday ex
pected to hear from the curate left in charge detailed

narratives of all that was going on in his beloved St.
Margaret's, the church and parish that he raised by his
splendid abilities and untiring energy from a position of
comparative insignificance to one of commanding influ

ence and widespread renown.

   "Aigburth Vicarage, September, 1903."

The Rev. W. J. Sommerville writes: --

" During the whole of Dr. Farrar's life at Westmin

ster, St. Margaret's was thronged from Sunday to Sun

day. When he himself was not preaching on a Sunday

morning, he gave his people opportunities of hearing

all the greatest preachers in the church. Sunday by

Sunday, Bishops, Canons, Deans, occupied the famous

pu"lpPitrawchtiecnalltyhe   Rector   himself was   absent.       in the
                           all the  distinguished     preachers

church, between 1875 and 1895, preached at some time
or other in St. Margaret's. Surely never was congrega

tion so favoured, and never did curates have so much

reason for thankfulness.
   246 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   " But there was another side to his character. The

   world knew him as the great preacher, writer, and

   orator ; but we who served under him knew him as our

   ins"piWreed  leader, guide, counsellor,   and  friend.      clergy
                knew him in the humbler     rdle  of a parish

   man, and never did a parish have a more faithful and

   earnest pastor than he. Dr. Farrar worked for his

   people, thought of them, and prayed for and with

   them.

     "In all the various details of parochial life he took

   the keenest interest. Sunday by Sunday, when he was

   not in residence in the Abbey, he was to be found open

   ing the Sunday-schools (which he rightly regarded as
   the great bulwark of the church) like the humblest
   curate in the land. We knew, too, how keen was the

   interest he took in the mission services, clubs, and

   guilds of the parish, and how ready he always was to

   visit a dying parishioner. I never knew the possibil
   ities and beauty of extempore prayer until I knelt with

   him one day by the bedside of a dying man in a small

   street close to the Aquarium.
      " But perhaps Dr. Farrar was seen at his best in the

   preparation for confirmation. Who that ever heard

   those addresses on the six Saturday evenings after
   Easter will be likely to forget them? The scholar,

   preacher, and writer were laid aside, and one saw only

   the saint of God yearning over those young soldiers of

   Jesus, and desirous, above all, of leading them into the

   paths of righteousness. I shall never forget the last

   night of his ministry at St. Margaret's. He had in

   vited all the young people who had been confirmed under

   his ministry to join with him in the Lord's Supper

   after evening prayer. In spite of the almost tropical

   downpour of rain, nearly six hundred young men and

S
THE PARISH PRIEST                                         247

women responded to his invitation, and joined with him    it,
                                                              is
in the great sacrament of Christ's love. I have seen

letters from many young men and young women in

business addressed to him, thankfully acknowledging

the blessings they had derived from his influence and
teaching ; and this, after all, is the true test of min

isterial success.
   " Nor were his activities confined within the borders

of his own parish. He was a devout and loyal member

of the Church of England, and never had the slightest

inclination to attach himself to any other communion ;
but his great heart beat in sympathy with all forms of
religious activity. No good cause ever appealed to him

in vain. In everything connected with social ameliora

tion he took the keenest interest.
   " The temperance cause never had a more earnest ad

vocate than he. No one ever more strongly denounced
the squalor and degradation in which so many of the

poor were compelled to live. I have been with him on

Sunday afternoons to large gatherings of men in East
and North London, where he spoke on such questions

as purity or home life with marvellous power, and on

week nights to missionary gatherings, temperance dem
onstrations, large assemblies of Boys' Brigades, in all of
which he was equally at home. St. Margaret's, West
minster, was indeed a Rational Church, and worthy of
its great position as the 'Parish Church of the House
of Commons' during his time. He opened its doors

to General Booth and the Salvation Army, to the
Church Army, to Volunteers, to almost every society
doing good work in the church itself or without to
Dr. Barnardo and Dr. Stevenson and their orphanages,

and last but not least, to that great charity for the
blir^d, the Royal Normal College at Norwood. This
248 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

surely what one means by Catholic in the highest sense,
not the obstinate clinging to, or revival of, some puerile
ceremony or custom, but the frank recognition of the
fact that the Christian Church is the sum of all those
who profess and call themselves Christian, the blessed
company of all faithful people."

  The Rev. Eric Farrar writes : --

   " No biography of Frederic William Farrar would be
complete without some allusion, however brief, to his

temperance work. Many, especially working-men, who

knew him not as the author of 'The Life of Christ,'

knew him as one of the most eloquent temperance
preachers of the day. During his University, Harrow,
and Marlborough career he was not convinced of the

necessity for total abstinence ; but as soon as he came

to London his labours as a parish clergyman, where he

was constantly confronted with the ravages of the
' Drink Demon,' caused him to take an active interest
in the temperance cause. He signed the pledge and
preached his first temperance sermon in Westminster

Abbey    on October 8, 1876.   in  New  York  he  himself  gave
         an address delivered
   " In

some of the reasons which induced him to become a

total abstainer.

  I" ' I first became a total abstainer because was easily

convinced that the use of alcohol was not a necessity.

I saw, for instance, that whole nations had not only

a
                        it,

                                          it

                                                              I
lived without  but had flourished without it.                    be

lieve that the human race had existed and had flourished

considerable time before was discovered.'
" Other reasons were because he saw in the carefully

prepared statistics of insurance societies that total ab-

V*.
THE PARISH PRIEST                                                      249

stinence as an indisputable fact contributed to longev

ity ; that greater feats of strength and endurance were

achieved without it than with it ; that a great number of
our most eminent physicians had declared most positively

that, in hundreds of thousands of cases, alcohol was a

prolific source of disease, even in those who took it in

qu"anIttitiweass cothnevnenbteiocnaauslley  deemed moderate.     that  ' total
                                            Dr. Farrar believed

abstinence would tend to simplicity of life, to health, to

strength of body, to clearness of mind, and to length of
days,' that he decided it was a desirable thing for him,

at any rate, to give up alcohol altogether.

   "But to this must be added one more reason, which,

more than all else, made Dr. Farrar, as it has made thou

sands, a total abstainer. It was pity, sheer human pity.
In his ministry at St. Margaret's, under the shadow of

the great Abbey of the Houses of Parliament, he wit
nessed the effects of alcohol. He was ' brought into

almost daily contact with or cognisance of tragedies the

most brutal, miseries the most unspeakable, the depths

of Satan, the horrible degradation of womanhood, the

death and anguish of children, the catastrophe and

devastation of homes, the abnormal debasement of souls,

the chronic and revolting squalor, the unspeakable, im

measurable, and apparently illimitable arrears of human

misery in its most unmitigated forms, which have their

source and origin in the temptations forced upon the

poor by the shameless multiplication of gin-shops and
public houses.' He saw that public houses were, 'to

many of those for whom Christ died, what the flames

of the guttering rushlight are to the wretched moths

who flutter about them and through them and into

them, until they are first singed and maimed, then

shrivelled and scorched to death.' It was the deep
250 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

pity, then, Dr. Farrar felt for all the slaves and victims
of strong drink, that not only made him an abstainer,

but caused him to speak out with impassioned eloquence,

endeavouring to arouse others to their duty towards the

victims of intemperance.

   " Till almost the last year of his life, in spite of many

other laborious works and pressing duties, he threw

himself into the cause. In the pulpit and on the plat

form, he made his voice heard with no uncertain sound.

He spoke to mass meetings of men on the subject in
nearly all the large towns of England. He was made a

vice-president of the Church of England Temperance
Society, of the United Kingdom Alliance, and of the
Temperance League. Many of his sermons were pub

lished by these and kindred societies, the most remark
able of which are perhaps ' The Vow of the Nazarite,'

'A Nation's Curse,' 'The Shadow of Civilisation,'

and ' Individual Responsibility.' His controversy with

Lord Bramwell in the Nineteenth Century was not only

exceedingly powerful, but also most useful in strength

ening the hands of abstainers.  He counted it an

honour and a privilege to have been chosen to deliver

the first Lees and Raper Memorial Lecture. On this

occasion Archbishop Temple presided and Archdeacon
Wilberforce, Sir Wilfrid Lawson, and many other dis

tinguished people were on the platform. It was a great

occasion, and Dr. Farrar -- in spite of the weakness
which was even then growing upon him -- fully sus
tained his reputation. He lectured for an hour and

twenty minutes, gathering up into one terrible in

dictment facts of every kind concerning the evils of

the drink traffic. At the conclusion of the lecture, the
archbishop described Dr. Farrar as a man 'with the

gift of using such language as it was delightful to
   THE PARISH PRIEST                          251

hear and difficult to forget.' The lecture has since

been published in book form and constitutes a repertory

of apt and high-class temperance quotations.

   "But though an impassioned and fervent temperance

preacher and speaker, Dr. Farrar was no fanatic. He

never asserted anything so wrong and so foolish as that

it was a sin to drink wine ; nor was he ever so unchari

table as to pronounce a syllable of condemnation against

moderate drinkers. Though he encouraged all his

family to abstain, there was always wine at hand for
                    it,
guests who desired  and he clearly saw and taught
                               a:
that the question of abstinence or non-abstinence wasa

one which could be only settled by the individual con
science and in connection with individual circumstances.

   " With regard to the political aspect of the question Dr.

Farrar, though he did not shrink from the distinctively

American mode of prohibition, gave his preference to

the more English policy of local option and direct

veto. Long before Mr. Ritchie and Mr. Goschen so

vainly raised the question of compensation (in 1888 and
1890), Dr. Farrar declared 'You might as well talk of

protecting the vested interests of cancer as protecting

the existing conditions of system which, in the lan

guage of the president of one of its own Defence

Leagues, gives us at least 64,000 too many out of our

107,337 licensed houses, of which he describes some as

seething hells of vice, immorality, and crime.' Dr.

Farrar was eager for temperance legislation and used

all his influence in this direction, believing that little

could be done to overcome England's national sin with

out the help of Parliament. In the House of Commons

he was often present on the occasion of temperance

debates, and there he heard Mr. Gladstone declare that

'  the evils wrought by drink were more deadly because
252 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

more continuous than the three great historic scourges

of  war,  famine, and pestilence combined.'
          his death the temperance press unanimously
    " On                                              de

clared that the cause had lost one of its best and most

persuasive champions. God buries His workmen, but

continues their work ; and though dead, Dr. Farrar will

continue to speak for many a long day, until it may be

the deepest shadow of civilisation has given way to the

dawn of a brighter day."

   My father's beautiful but little known Teacher's Hymn
may fitly close this chapter.

                      Soft is the blush of dawn
                          In heaven's serene repose,

                      And bright the dewy lustre gleams
                            Upon the opening rose ;

                         But clouds may dim the day,
                         And evening skies may lower,

                      The dewdrop vanisheth away
                         And cankers kill the flower.

                            Sweet as the dawn, and pure

                         As rose in early dew,
                      The light of Innocence doth shine

                         In childhood's heaven of blue ;
                         Oh, never may that light

                            Be quenched in cloudy gloom ;
                         Oh, that no cankerworm may blight

                         That rose's crimson bloom !

                      The mirth, the beauty pass,
                         We do not bid them stay,

                      We ask Thee not, dear Lord, to keep
                         Thy blessed griefs away ;

                      We pray that sin alone
                         Be conquered by Thy grace,

                      Nor evil in the heart be sown
                         Thine image to efface.
 THE PARISH PRIEST                   253

As lilies by the waves
   Thy childhood grew to man,

In loveliness and graciousness
   Thine early summers ran ;

So may Thy children grow
   To be for ever Thine,

Till onward to noon's perfect glow
   Their golden dawn may shine.

And oh ! to us, dear Lord,
   May grace and aid be given

To save Thy little ones for Thee,
   And guide their feet to heaven ;

To love, as Thou didst love,
   Their tender early days,

Till in Thy Paradise above
   They join our song of praise.
                      CHAPTER XI

   These twenty years at Westminster witnessed the
zenith of my father's power and reputation as a preacher.
His sermons preached to boys at Harrow and Marlbor
ough were in their sphere intensely powerful for good,
and their echoes still live in the ears of many of his old
pupils ; but his influence at Westminster was national,
and his title to rank among the very few great pulpit
orators of the Victorian era cannot be questioned.

    Some critics have thought that Farrar's style was
marred at times by a certain exuberance of diction, and
that his sermons were overloaded with poetical imagery.
There is perhaps some justice in the criticism, but two
facts must be considered in mitigation, if mitigation be
needed. The sermons were delivered in the routine of
an exceptionally busy life by a prophet whose mission it
was to preach the Kingdom to all people, and to as
many as would hear him, and who became all things to
all men that he might by all means save some. Certain
great pulpit orators, as Liddon and Magee, whose out
put of sermons was far less in amount, have had leisure
to prepare discourses, studied, polished, and refined,
which may have been finer as oratorical efforts, though
hardly richer in moral and spiritual influence, than in
dividual sermons of Farrar's. But my father, it must be
remembered, never aimed at the reputation of an orator ;
he had his message to deliver, and could not stop to cull

                                                                  254
     PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 255

phrases or deliberate niceties of rhetoric. His eloquence
was unstudied, and if unchastened, his style was at any

rate absolutely natural, spontaneous, and sincere.

   How could it be otherwise ? He preached to his own

flock always once, and frequently twice, on Sundays,

and  his  sgaryea"t  Nkoin"dntoesrseqoufehstesartto  made it  very  difficult for
him  to                                               preach  away  from home

during the week. Indeed, few men have been more ready

than he was to help his brother clergy when appealed to.

I am, probably, well within the mark when I compute that

he preached not less than one hundred and twenty ser

mons every year. Up to the eyes in pastoral and liter

ary work, burdened with a large correspondence, and

never shrinking from any labour that presented itself to

his sensitive conscience as a duty, he was seldom able

to devote more than three or four hours to the prepara

tion of a sermon.     Scant leisure was his to                      prune and
polish, and, as has  been said, " The ink upon                       the paper

was often damp as the chimes for service marked time

for eager multitudes." These sermons, then, were

written currente calamo, and the manuscripts show very

few erasures ; expression was easy to him ; he poured

out his ardent soul as the Spirit gave him utterance,

and without effort lavished from the rich treasures of

his memory garnered stores of poetic illustration and

historic parallel.

Again, the wealth of poetic imagery which en

riched and embellished his sermons has been held

by some fastidious critics for a defect in style : this

fault, too, if fault it be, was at least absolutely natural.

It may be safely said that my father never paused, as

do some preachers, to choose a quotation which should
illustrate his meaning. We cannot do justice to this

aspect of his preaching unless we try to realise that
256 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

quotation with him was entirely spontaneous, almost
involuntary, because his marvellous memory was stored,
nay, saturated with passages from the poets which had
become, as it were, a part of his very being, and which,
when the appropriate association evoked them, came

unbidden to his lips. To quote was with him as natural

and automatic as to breathe, and even those florid turns
which passed for mere exuberance of diction were not
seldom unconscious or semiconscious quotations which
the sapient critic failed to recognise. But why pause,

after all, to justify these purple patches. In them lay
one of the secrets of his power to touch the heart. He

had in a transcendent degree the art to rivet a great
moral or spiritual truth upon the memory with some
passage of immortal verse which should remain a
KTfjfia e? aei long after the echoes of the sermon had
died away. Again, with what a flood of historic
illustration and parallel were these discourses enriched
and fertilised ! Read, for example, " The Witness of
History to Christ," the Hulsean Lectures for 1870, and
you cannot fail to be amazed with the learning and
research of the preacher, yes, but even more with
the habit of mind which led him to regard all history
and all literature as so many witnesses to God, and to
set store by his vast knowledge only as a trust to be
used in the Master's service.

   The following extract from a newspaper humorously
illustrates my father's prodigality in the use of quota

tions.
   " Those who are acquainted with Dean Farrar's works

know that they swarm with all manner of quotations,
acknowledged and unacknowledged, but we venture to
think (says the Daily News) that the following beats
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 257

the record : In the course of the two sermons that he

preached at Great St. Mary's, Cambridge, he quoted

twenty-three Scriptural phrases or texts, excluding para

phrases, and used altogether upwards of eighty different
quotations. An   analysis will
Dean Farrar has   four Greek     be read    with  orciugrinioaslit--y.
                                quotations   in

Pindar 'the Greek comedian,' ' the Greek father,' and an

unacknowledged passage ; also two Greek words used

by St. Luke, and Latin quotations in the original from
' the Roman Poet,' ' the Roman bard,' ' the gay lyrist,'

St. Augustine, St. Francis Xavier, and Orosius, to say

nothing of the inscriptions on Balliol College and Lin
coln's Inn and such flowers of speech as ' summum

bonum ' and ' toto coelo, toto inferno.' These were, no

doubt, introduced out of compliment to a University

congregation.
   " Some score of sentences, which may be prose or

poetry, are found in the two sermons within quotation

marks and without their source being stated. Dean

Farrar quotes    poetry without mentioning     the    author
(Shakespeare,  Tennyson, etc.) twelve times   in all
                                                      -- the

total amounting to forty-seven lines. He also quotes ' a

late eminent judge,' 'the German writer,' 'a brutal

onlooker,'   and 'one of   our greatest men   of science.'
   " Dean   Farrar quotes  from and mentions  by name the

following list, which is worth setting out after the man

ner of all records --

" Christ (three passages)  St. Francis Xavier (two pas-
  David                       sages, Latin and English)
  Solomon
  St. Peter                Marcus Aurelius
  St. Paul                 ' Cleantha '
  St. John
  St. Luke                 Epictetus
  St. Augustine            Hennas
                           Pindar

                           Pyrrho
258 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Orosius                         Milton (four passages)
                                Browning (ditto)
Leibnitz                        Byron (twice)
Amiel (two passages)            Renan (twice)
Von Hartmann                    Wordsworth
Novalis                         Lord Herbert of Cherbury
                                Emerson
Schopenhauer
Salvator Rosa                   Ruskin

Henry Smith                     Thackeray
William Brown (the boy martyr)  Sir Fitzjames Stephen
Shakespeare (two passages

   acknowledged)

After this it savours of anti-climax to add that the

preacher also alluded by name, without quoting from, to

the prophet Isaiah, Whitefield, Augustus Caesar, Trajan,

St. Louis of France, St. Francis of Assisi, St. Thomas

Aquinas, the author of the ' Imitatio Christi,' Dives,
Lazarus (the subject of miracle), ' the poor, ugly teacher
whom the Greek Pharisees doomed to drink hemlock,'

Mary (Queen), Othello, Desdemona, Cordelia, and Pan.

There has been nothing to equal      ofthLiisfes.i'n"ce  Sir John
Lubbock published his ' Pleasures

The wide range of subjects covered by his sermons

is well exemplified in a volume published in America
under the title " Social and Present Day Questions."
This embraces some of my father's     deeply interesting
biographical studies -- Sir Walter    Raleigh, General

Grant, General Garfield, Dean Stanley, Cardinal New

man,  Charles   Darwin, John Bright,  Garibaldi, and     Count
      Tolstoy,                          " Biography       (The
Leo                and a sermon on

Teachers of     Mankind)," highly   ch"aArratct"eritsoticwhoifch  his
method and      style, a sermon on
                                                                    I

shall recur later, and, among other   subjects,  se"rmNaontisonoanl
" Social Amelioration," " National     Duties,"
Perils," and "The Ideal Citizen." In this volume is
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 259

also included a generous tribute to the national char

acter of the Jews and an appeal against the stupid
ferocities of the Judenhetse which won for him the
gratitude and affection of many of the leaders of that

ancient people.

   To those who have never heard him preach it is im

possible to convey an adequate idea of his personality, a
magnetism which was the birthright of perfect sincerity,
intense conviction, and utter purity of heart, or to de
scribe the matchless music of his voice, now melodious
and even as a flute, now ringing out like a clarion, anon

sinking to a hoarse whisper of passionate emotion. To

many who heard him the tones of that beloved voice,
now hushed in death, are among their dearest memories.

   An American divine, the Rev.            John Reid Shannon,
wri"teDsr.thFuasrr:a--r was a prose poet.   His discourses were
fragrant with the most beautiful flowers of speech. It

was natural for him to speak with golden utterance,

with artistic colouring, and poetic efflorescence. He

was a weird magician of language ; he had a marvel

lously rich flow of good, racy, vigorous, idiomatic Eng

lish, a wonderful command of phrase and range of

expression ; he clothed his ideas with noble, musical,

picturesque words, which were as lenses giving clearest

vision of the thoughts he presented. The splendours of

his rhetoric touched the imagination with flashing lights,

not unlike diamonds whose facets throw back upon the

eye the lustrous rays of the morning sun.

"There was in his discourses a freshness like the

wind that blows around the mountain heights. How he

preached inward righteousness ! How he denounced

formalising priestcraft ! How he inveighed against the
260 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

hollowness and emptiness of religious externalism ! He
would not have the form put for the reality, the shadow
for the substance, which seems to be the trend of things
to-day in the Established Church of England ; for its

glorification of ordinances, its gorgeous outward religious
conformities, are, in many sanctuaries, not far removed
from the ceremonialism of the Church of Rome. The

avowed and uncompromising opponent of all this, Dr.
Farrar stood as a teacher and preacher of spiritual

religion."

IBy courtesy of the editor am permitted to give the

following extract from an             article  by W.     Scott  King  in

the British Monthly : --
" Old St. Philip's, Birmingham, is crowded from altar

to doors with eager-eyed, panting, expectant young men
waiting to hear the brilliant author of ' The Life of

Christ' and 'Seekers after God.' Among them is a

boy student from a neighbouring college. Standing erect

in the far pulpit is a noble, stately figure with pure,

clear-cut features, gentle yet throbbing brow, and sil

vered hair, and a voice -- oh, what a voice ! He is tell

ing a story of shame and wrong, and Tom Hood's

pitiful lines are falling from the angry, quivering lips : --

                             " Mad from life's history,
                               Glad to death's mystery.

Oh, end it ! -- end it ! It is insupportable. The very altar

candles flickered like some torch held low and search-

ingly over the dark waters. The end comes -- ' Young
man ! is this your handiwork ? ' And a deep sob as

of conscience-smitten remonstrance goes up from the

hea"vAinggainm, aists    in  answer.  morning  in  May,  and    the  altar
                       is a  Sunday
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 261

is dressed in white lilies, and two thousand of the city's

wealthiest and most cultured have gathered to hear the

author of 'St. Winifred's' and 'Darkness and Dawn.'

It is Temperance Sunday and the text is awaited almost
with fear. Then it came ! ' Ye shall be hated of all

men for My sake.' Did they look a martyred congre
gation -- stylishly dressed, well fed, complacent ? Then
followed the characteristic sermon -- quotation upon

quotation from Juvenal and Herodotus, from Milton and
Browning, metaphor on the heels of metaphor, gorgeous

in purple and gold diction, illustrations from London

life, Athenian life, from Corinth and Birmingham, anal

ogies from nature, and apothegms from Cicero, from

Dante, from General Booth. It has been said that

Dean Farrar 'thought in quotations,' and indeed so it

seemed ; but the quotations were a-thrill with molten

passion and consuming solicitude, reminding one of what
his old friend and master said of him so long ago, ' In

Farrar  the  oucrusl.t'ur"e  of other  days is  blended  with the
wisdom  of

There is an interesting passage in "Dean Stanley's
Life," in which allusion is made to one of these sermons,

preached on the last Sunday in 1876. The Dean had
picked up Lord Beaconsfield in Whitehall, and carried

him into the Abbey, where the two men, in their different

ways the most remarkable, and, so to say, picturesque,

individuals of the time, stood for a few minutes on the

pedestal of one of the vaster monuments in order to

hear Canon Farrar preach. As they came out into St.

"IMargaret's churchyard, the Premier confided to the
Dean his impressions.                  could not follow him," he
said. "Perhaps I am hard of hearing, and I was not

accustomed to his voice ; but it was a fine delivery and
262 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

suitable to the occasion. But I would not have missed

the sight for anything -- the darkness, the lights, the

marvellous windows, the vast crowd,         the courtesy, the
respect, the devotion -- and fifty          ago there would
                                    ye"ars
not have been fifty persons there
                                    !

I may here add that my father throughout his life

almost invariably wrote his sermons ; but as he did not,

after the manner of some preachers, keep his eyes glued

to the manuscript before him, but was able at a single

glance to take in the substance of a page, his utterances

had a freedom and power which is seldom associated

with written discourses. His style was so easy that

hearers who did not know his practice not seldom

thought they were listening to an extempore sermon.

The intensity of his zeal for God and fervent hatred of

evil gave a vehement force to many of the preacher's
                                              in " Mercy
utterances. On this  point  he says himself,

and Judgment " : --
" It has been laid to my charge, almost as if it were a
fault, that in those sermons I adopted a vehement tone.

Is it a sin to feel strongly and to speak strongly ? Are
the Prophets and the Psalmists never vehement? Is

St. Paul never vehement? Are St. Peter and St.
                                            As for ' adopting
James and St. John never vehement ?
a vehement tone,' my reply is that          I never ' adopt '

any tone at all, but speak as it is given to me to speak,

and use only such language as most spontaneously and

naturally expresses the thoughts and feelings with which

I write. 'Every one,' says Dr. Newman, 'preaches

according to his frame of mind at the time of preaching,'

and it is quite true that at the time when I preached

those sermons [jc. 'Eternal Hope'] my feelings had been

stirred to their inmost depths. I am not the least

ashamed of the ' excitement ' at which party news
        PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 263

papers and reviews have sneered. I do not blush for

the moral indignation which most of what has since been

written on this subject shows to have been intensely

needful. In the ordinary course of parochial work I

had stood by death-beds of men and women which had

left on my mind an indelible impression. I had become

aware   that the minds of   many of the living were hope
lessly                      can use no other word -- devas
        harassed, and -- I

tated by the horror with which they brooded over the
fate of the dead. The happiness of their lives was

shattered, the peace of their souls destroyed, not by the

sense of earthly bereavement, but by the terrible belief

that brother, or son, or wife, or husband had passed

away into physical anguish and physical torment,

endless and beyond all utterance excruciating."

  [*Ehere are not a few who hold that Farrar's chief
service to God and the Church was his outspoken repu

diation of the commonly held doctrine, which attributed

to a loving Creator the everlasting torture of souls which

He has created ;( and who believe that, when all his
other books are forgotten, he will still be remembered
with gratitude as the fearless preacher of "Eternal

 Hope."j

    Though this ghastly doctrine of everlasting torment is
 seldom taught in the present generation, it cannot be too
 strongly asserted that a generation ago it was commonly
 received as a tenet of orthodoxy that sinners were pun
 ished by God with everlasting torment in hell-fire, and
 that only a few souls were exempt from this damnation.
(Even so late as 1880 the devout and earnest Dean Goul-
 cmrn wrote, and dedicated to the Dean of Chichester, an

 elaborate defence of the thesis that God's purpose in

 creation was that the majority of mankind should suffer
 everlasting punishment in hell, and that this purpose
264 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

is not inconsistent with His justice and love. That the

doctrine still found many supporters is shown by the
                                                edition of " Everlasting
fPaucnt isthhamt eantse"cownads  and enlarged  the following year.
                                 published in

The theory, thus nakedly upheld with uncompromis

ing and courageous plainness of utterance, less than a

quarter of a century ago, by a dignitary of the Church,

justly honoured for his learning and piety, was commonly,

almost universally, believed during the first half of the

nineteenth century.)

  It was this doctrine that made of the elder Mill a
professed atheist. "Think," said he, "of a God who

could create mankind with the infallible foreknowledge

and therefore with the intention that the vast majority
of them should suffer                          torment." "What
ever power," says John           everlasting   " such a Being may
                                 Stuart Mill,

have over me, there is one thing He shall not do. He

shall not compel me to worship Him ; and if as a penalty

for my refusal to worship Him, that Being can send me

to hell, then to hell I will go." And it cannot be doubted

that more than any single cause a dogma founded on

the distortion of isolated texts, mostly mistranslated

and all misapplied, elaborated by the sombre imaginings

of mediaeval monasticism, and rivetted upon Protes

tantism by Calvinistic divines, a dogma which imputes

to the God of love the malignant and maleficent attri

butes of a   fiend, has          contributed to     the spread of
atheism and  infidelity.                           Leslie Stephen,
                                 " If this," says

"be the logical result of accepting theories, better

believe in no God at all."
 (The pious author of the " Saints' Rest," after im

pressing on his readers that they are but a small part of
mankind to whom "it is their
                                               Father's    go: o"dThpleeaesvuerer
to give the kingdom," proceeds                 to declare

                                                           1
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 265

lasting flames of hell will not be thought too hot for the

rebellious ; and when they have burned there through

millions of ages, He will not repent him of the evil

which has befallen them. Woe to the soul that is thus

set up as a butt for the wrath of the Almighty to shoot
at ! and as a bush that must burn in the flames of His

jealousy, and never be consumed ! . . . Terrible thing,

when none in   heaven    or earth   cacnalahmelpityth! e"m                but God,
and He shall    rejoice   in their
                                                                          And the

doctrine thus enunciated by the saintly Baxter has been

explicitly  :tau"gThht ebydaJmonnaetdhasnhalEl dwbaerdtosr,mwenhtoeddecinlarethde,
inter alia

presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the

Lamb, so will they be tormented also in the presence of

the glorified saints. Thus the saints will be made more
sensible how great their salvation is. The view of the
misery of the damned will double the ardour of the love

and gratitude   of  the saints  in heaven."   all                  those  terrific
   Dr. Pusey   has   taught :
                                " Apart from

physical miseries of which our Lord speaks, . . . the

society of the damned were misery unutterable. Gather

in one in your mind an assembly of all those men and

women from whom, whether in history or in fiction,

your memory most shrinks ; gather in mind all which

is most loathsome, most revolting. Conceive the fierce

fiery eyes of hate, spite, frenzied rage, were fixed on

thee, looking thee through and through with hate . . .

hear those yells of blasphemy and concentrated hate as

they echo   oanleon"g("thPearloucrhidiavl aSuelrtmoof nhse"l)l.1;  every  one  hat
ing every

Charles Spurgeon wrote : "When thou diest thy

soul will be tormented alone ; that will be a hell for it :

    1 It is fair to add that those views of Dr. Pusey were much modified in

after years.
266 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

but at the day of judgment thy body will join thy soul,

and then thou wilt have twin-hells, thy soul sweating
drops of blood, and thy body suffused with agony. In

fire exactly like that which we have on earth thy body

will lie, asbestos-like, for ever unconsumed, all thy veins

roads for the feet of pain to travel on, every nerve a

sctarlintugneonofwhheiclhl'sthuenudtetevrilabshlealllamfoerntev!e"r  play his diaboli
                                                                     (Sermon on the
Resurrection of the Dead.)
   The   catechism of  the Wesleyan    Methodists describes
hell as                bottomless pit  full of fire and brim
         " a dark and

stone, in which the wicked will be punished by having

their bodies tormented with fire, and their souls by a
sense of the wrath of God. And these torments will

last for eve╗ and ever." The saintly churchman from

jwhom they take their name seems to have held similar

views,

It is true that a silent revolt against this fetich had

been spreading among thoughtful people, and that mur

murs had been whispered even within the pale of ortho

doxy ; that a few broad-minded theologians had hinted

at the revision of current eschatological doctrines, and

that of educated laymen few even professed to be bound

by the clanking chains of Calvinism. But the doctrine

commonly taught was that propounded by                               BaxterJ     in
                                                                     the belief
   It is needful to insist on the fact that

everlasting hell-fire was generally held by orthodox

Christians in the last generation, because we cannot

otherwise appreciate the fearless courage required in a

clergyman to stand up in the National Pulpit and de

nounce this doctrine in language which left no room for

ambiguity.

   In 1877 a discussion was being held in the Nineteenth

Century on the soul and future life ; and the question
        PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 267

raised  by  Mallock,  " Is Life worth  Living           "  had  excited

                                                       ?

the attention of both clergy and laity.

   In reference to this question my father delivered

from the pulpit of Westminster Abbey in November

and December the five sermons, never originally in

tended for publication, and preached in the ordinary

course of his duties, which, when it became necessary

to do so in simple self-defence against the many perver

sions of his real views which were prevalent among

those who had not heard the sermons, he published in

the volume entitled "Eternal Hope."

  It must be borne in mind, therefore, in regard to the

style of the book, and to allegations sometimes made,

that it depends for its effect rather on rhetoric than on

close reasoning ; that this, which was in respect of its

far-reaching influence, perhaps, my father's most im
portant work, and the one by which his name will be

handed down to posterity, was not an elaborately pre

pared theological treatise, but consisted mainly of ser

mons thrown off in the routine of a very laborious life,

and preached Sunday after Sunday to vast popular

audiences.
   It is impossible
a                    "toEtgeirvnealheHreopaen,y"thwinhgichapwprilol,acbheinsigdetso,
   full account of

be familiar to most readers of these pages.

   Its importance as a contribution to systematic theol
ogy resides in the Preface and Excursus, in which the

author pleads   ea"rhneelsl,t"ly  for a revision  of   certain transla
tions rendered                    " damnation,"   and   " everlasting "

in the Authorised Version. He shows that the words

KpiaK, Kplva, tccnaKplva, etc., rendered into "damn"

and its cognates, imply neither more nor less than
"judgment," or "condemnation"; that often words
rendered "hell," "Sheol," "Hades," and "Tartarus"
268 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

(2 Pet. ii. 4) mean simply " the unseen world," or the
world "beyond the grave," and "Gehenna" a punish
ment -- which, to the Jews, as a body, never meant an
endless punishment -- beyond the grave ; and, finally,

that the word amviot, rendered "everlasting," means

"age-long" or "eternal," and confessedly does not and

seventy times out of ninety cannot mean "endless."

But though many of the clergy, including not a few

learned theologians, acknowledged the soundness of his

arguments, and, in several cases, confessed that they

had tacitly held similar views, but had never ventured

to formulate          t"heMmerc; yanadndthoJuudgghmemnyt,"fathsuecrceinssafulslyubsdee
quent book,

fended his         :  v"ieEwtsernagaal inHstoptehe"  criticisms of the   learned
Dr. Pusey                                            was not addressed    to the

ologians, but to the masses of the people ; and was not

primarily designed to convince the clergy, but to deliver

humble believers from the bondage of an intolerable

error, and to bring home to them the love and mercy

of God.

Those sermons, delivered on successive Sunday after

noons in the winter of 1877, will never be forgotten by

those who heard that clarion voice, ringing through the

vast arches of the dim Abbey, amid the hushed silence
of the listening throng. For those who only read them

they abound in passages of matchless eloquence. I will

sel"ecBt ubt utto  one.        comes  the            cry ' Comfort  ye,  comfort
                    all these

ye my people, saith our God.' Your own holier instinct

tells you so. Son, or brother, or friend, or father dies ;

we all have lost them ; it may be that they were not

holy ; not even religious ; perhaps not even moral men ;

and it may be that, after living the common life of man,

they died suddenly, and with no space for repentance ;
      PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 269

and if a state of sin be not a state of grace, then cer

tainly by all rules of  theology they had not repented,
they were not saved.
                         And yet, when you stood -- O
father, O brother -- heavy-hearted by their open grave ;

when you drank in the sweet words of calm and hope

which our Church utters over their poor remains ;

when you laid the white flowers on the coffin ; when

you heard    the dull rattle of 'earth to         earth,   ashes to
ashes, dust                                       knew    their sins
             to dust ' ; -- you, who, if you

and their feelings, knew also all that was good, and

sweet, and amiable, and true within them, -- dared you,

did you, even in the inmost sessions of thought, con
sign them as you ought logically to do, as you ought if

you are sincere in that creed to do, to the unending
anguish of that hell which you teach ? Or does your

heart, your conscience, your sense of justice, your love
of Christ, your faith in God, your belief in Him of whom

you   sing every Sunday that his      mercy is    evtheerlnas?ti"ng,
rise  in revolt against your nominal  profession

   But while he dared not set limits to the infinite mercy
of an all-merciful God and Father, none ever pointed

with sterner   fin"gTehr etomtahne   ineluctable  Nemesis    that at
tends on sin.                       who is sold   under sin  is dead,

morally dead, spiritually dead ; and such a man is a
ghost, far more awful than the soul which was once in

a dead body, for he is a body bearing about with him a

dead soul. Better, far, far better for him to have cut

off the right hand,  or plucked out the           right eye, than  to
have been cast as    he has been, now             in his lifetime
                                                                   --

and as he will be cast until he repents, even beyond the

grave, into that Gehenna of aeonian fire ! It shall purify

him, God grant, in due time ; but oh ! it shall agonise,

because he has made himself, as yet, incapable of any
other redemption. So that if any youth have wickedly
270 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

thoughts in his heart that God is even such an one as
himself -- that he may break with impunity God's awful

commandments, that he may indulge with impunity his

own evil lusts, let him recall the sad experience of Solo

mon, which he heard this morning, ' Walk in the ways

of thine heart and in the sight of thine eyes ; but know

thou that for all these things God will bring thee into

judgment.' Let him remember the stern warning of
Isaiah, 'Woe unto them that call evil good and good

evil ; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness ;

that put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter ! There

fore as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame

consumeth the chaff, so shall their root be as rottenness,

and their blossom shall go up as dust ; because they
shpaiv"seEedtecatrhsntealawwHoarodypetohf"etwhlaaeswHreoogflayrtdhOeendeLboyorfcdeIsrotraafienHl.'coh"sutsrc, hamnedn
                                                                                                                       de
                                                                                                                        as

a challenge, and led to a controversy, conducted on both

sides with perfect courtesy, and finally to a friendly cor

respondence with the learned Dr. Pusey. Dr. Pusey pub
                                                  "What is of Faith as to
lEisvheerldasitningrepPlyuntioshmmyenfatth? e"r,  This controversy and the

correspondence which ensued cleared the air and vindi

cated, if vindication was needed, the orthodoxy of the
preacher of "Eternal Hope"; for, though my father bated

no jot of  his   belief   ahsimexp: re"sIstedis   in that  work,   Dr. Pusey
was able   to   write to                          a great  relief  to me that

you can substitute the conception of a future purification

[instead of a state of probation] for those who have not
utterly extinguished the grace of God in their hearts.
IThis think would put you
                           in                     h"arYmouonsytewmithtothmeewhtooledeonyf
Christendom." And again
                           --
Inothing which believe. You do not deny the eternal
punishment of souls obstinately hard and finally impcni
          PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 271

tent. I believe in the eternal punishment of no other.

Who they are       God alone   knows."         Hope " were, of
   The views       expressed   in " Eternal

course, misunderstood, distorted, and perverted not only

by the working-man who exclaimed, "It's all right --

Farrar says there's no 'ell," but by writers in the ecclesi

astical press, for whose distortions there was less excuse.
In
       1  88 1, therefore, my father followed    up the     sermons
by          book, " Mercy and Judgment,"       in which       he ex
       a

pressed in more permanent form his matured and

deliberate convictions on this great question. As his
real views have been so widely misrepresented, I may

be allowed to reproduce here the closing words of this

book, in which the writer marshals and exhaustively

reviews the whole body of eschatological theology from
                      to modern times : --
the"   Fathers down                                         has  ever
                      then with what the Church
       In accordance
held -- adding nothing to that Catholic creed, and sub
tracting nothing from it ; --
    " I believe that on the subject of man's future it has

been God's will to leave us uninstructed in details, and

that He has vouchsafed to us only so much light as may

serve     to guide our lives.  Father,  the  Creator ;  in  God the
          believe in God the
  "I

Son, the Redeemer ; in God the Holy Ghost, the Com

forter.
    " I believe that God is Love.
    "  I
    "  I  believe  that God willeth all men to  be saved.        of
          believe  that God has given to all    men the gift

immortality, and that the gifts of God are without repent

"Iance.
          believe that every man shall stand before the

judgment seat of Christ and shall be judged according

to his deeds.
272 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" I believe that He who shall be our Judge is He who

died for the sins of the whole world.

  " I believe that ' if any man sin, we have an advocate

with the Father, Jesus Christ the Righteous, and He is
the propitiation for our sins.'

  " I believe in the forgiveness of sins.
  " I believe that all who are saved are saved only by

grace through faith ; and that not of ourselves ; it is the

gift of God.

   " I believe that every penitent and pardoned soul will

pass from this life into a condition of hope, blessedness,

and peace.

   " I believe that man's destiny stops not at the grave,
and that many who knew not Christ here will know Him

"Ithere.

        believe that 'in the depths of the divine com

passion there may be opportunity to win faith in the

future state.'

  " I believe that hereafter -- whether by means of the

' almost-sacrament of death ' or in other ways unknown

to us -- God's mercy may reach many who, to all earthly

appearance, might seem to us to die in a lost and unre-

gejierate state.                    .
I" I believe that as impenitent sin is punished here, so

"Ialso it is punished beyond the grave.
          believe that the punishment is effected, not by
arbitrary inflictions, but by natural and inevitable con

sequences, and therefore that the expressions which

have been interpreted to mean physical and material

agonies by worm and flame are metaphors for a state of

remorse and alienation  from God./     these  agonies  may
                        hope that
   " I see reasons to

be so tempered by the mercy of God, that the soul

may hereafter find some measure of peace and patience,
       PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 273

even if it be not admitted into His vision and His

sabbath.

   " I believe that among the punishments of the world

to come there are ' few stripes ' as well as ' many

stripes,' and I do not see how any fair interpretation of

the metaphor, ' few stripes, ' can be made to involve
the conception of endlessness for all who incur future

retribution.

   " I believe that Christ went and preached to the
spirits in prison, and I see reasons to hope that since

the gospel was thus once preached ' to them that were

dead,' the offers of God's mercy may in some form be

ext"enI dbeedlietvoe  the soul, even   after death.     state of the
                        that there is  an intermediate

soul, and that the great separation of souls into two

classes will not take  place until the final judgment.
                       are permitted to hope that, whether
  " I believe that we

by a process of discipline, or enlightenment, or purifica

tion, or punishment, or by the special mercy of God in

Christ, or in consequence of prayer, the state of many

souls may be one of progress and diminishing sorrow,

Iand"of advancing happiness in the intermediate state.
       believe that there will be degrees of blessedness
and degrees of punishment or deprivation, and I see

reasons to hope that there may be gradual mitigations
of penal doom to all souls that accept the will of God

Ires"pecbteinliegvteheams .Christ has said, that ' all manner of sin

shall be forgiven unto men, and all their blasphemies,
however greatly they shall blaspheme,' and that as
there is but one sin of which He said that it should be

forgiven neither in this aeon nor in the next, there must

be some sins which will be forgiven in the next as well

as in this.
274 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" I believe that without holiness no man can see the

Lord, and that no sinner can be pardoned or accepted
till he has repented, and till his free will is in unison

with the will of God ; and I cannot tell whether some

souls may not resist God for ever, and therefore may
not be for ever shut out from His presence.

  "And I believe that to be without God is 'hell';

and that in this sense there is a hell beyond the grave ;

and that for any soul to fall even for a time into this
condition, though it be through its own hardened im

penitence and resistance of God's grace, is a very awful
and terrible prospect ; and that in this sense there may

be for some souls an endless hell. But I see reason to

hope that through God's mercy, and through the merits

of Christ's sacrifice, the great majority of mankind may
be delivered from this awful doom. For though, accord
oinrg"hotIowbtehitleiewvSeicllriibpnetutehrefefse,crteIesdtk,itnu--otwionnoot fwahlalt
                                                                                         its nature will   be
                                                                                                          be
                                                                                        things ; and I

lieve in the coming of that time when, though in what

Isense cannot pretend to explain or to fathom, God
will be all in all.

                     "AdБa tБ 8eБ."

   If, as has been often thought and said, " Eternal Hope "

cost the fearless preacher high ecclesiastical preferment,
the sermons won for him a far higher reward in the love
and gratitude of thousands who looked up to him as the
deliverer of the faithful from the gloom and terrors of a
fetich worship, which they had been taught to regard
as an essential of right belief, and who rejoiced in the
freedom to worship God as the God of Love, not as the

pitiless Creator whose vengeance had decreed the great

mass of His creatures to a doom of hideous and never
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 275

ending torment. From a very large number of letters

I have selected a few illustrative of the deep gratitude

which those sermons evoked : --

                                                                 "November 26, 1877.

" My dear Sir : Millions will bless you for your brave

and inspired utterance against the most sorrowful super

stition that ever oppressed weary and heavy laden man.

We want again the outright, burning words of old pro
phetic times when men felt that ' the hand of the Lord
was upon ' them.
                      " Heartily yours,
                      "J. P. H."

                      " November 28th.

"My dear Canon Farrar: I must express my

thanks to you for your sermon in the Abbey. God give

you the wisdom and the courage to free our Church from
the incubus of the hell of Dr. Watts k.tX. which has

kept the laity away from us more than ritualism or any

Ithing else. Is your sermon published ? If not might
have the special favour of the loan of the MS.

  I have talked to many persons privately in the last

Ifew years upon this subject, and especially to the Bishops,

and believe that every Bishop on the bench agrees in

his heart with you, but they dare not say it. Don't

trouble to do more than reply on a post-card. I know

how you are pressed.  I" am most truly yours", B. W."

                                "Kalntara, Ceylon, Dec. 18, 1877.

  "My dear Canon Farrar: I seem to draw a new

breath ! to live a new life ! to have heard the best tidings
276 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

of comfort to all men that I have ever yet heard during

the sixty-two years of my life, now that I this moment

read of your sermon preached in the sacred Abbey de
nouncing the doctrine of Eternal Punishment.

   "It seems to me as if all through heaven and earth

there was a general rejoicing on the day you rent
asunder that hideous veil, tore the black hiding cloth,
from top to bottom, and showed God's real face to man.

  I" For a long time past, more especially since the two
years have spent in this island, I have sorrowed in

heart over the blasphemy of representing our Creator as
He is represented by those who preach the doctrine of

eternal damnation and everlasting hell-fire, and make
the devil the triumphant conqueror and our God (our
Almighty God) the helpless God who yields up those
He cannot save by tens of thousands, whilst those He
has saved and will save are counted by scores. Much
as there is of devil worship in the island, there is noth
ing that approaches the intensity of faith in the power
of the devil that is, alas ! so universally preached in our
Church. Sad as it is to see the hopeless, helpless at
tempts of these dear, dark races to propitiate the Devil
in the Swami festivals, bringing the sick forward,
adorning themselves with garlands of flowers, gay robes
of saffron, blue, white, and red, piling edifices of brass

pans, beating tom-toms and kettledrums, making deaf
ening noises and yelling shouts, dancing hideous dances
with savage contortions, dragging a poor solitary goat
along with this deluded crew, and finally sacrificing it
with a red cock and a sheep ; all this to propitiate their
devil, to cure their sick, to avert surrounding pestilence
or threatened famine, or any impending evil : this
devil worship of theirs, so sad to see, is, surely, but
child's play compared with the devil worship of our
      PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 277

Church -- with our creed of the omnipotence of the devil,

with the faith that our God creates a world nine-tenths
of which He dooms or has to see doomed to everlasting
punishment, while He, the Creator, the Redeemer, the
Sanctifier, is content to decree that this should be so,
and is made to say that for this end the human race was
and is created, to feed the everlasting flames of a hun
gry, never satisfied, all devouring hell-fire.

   " May God give you length of days to establish your
new doctrine to man. Dearest F. D. Maurice, from
heaven, he will be glad. May you live to see our Bible
the message of salvation, to see the hell side torn out
of it for ever and ever, and God as He is in His Holy
Majesty, the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever, there
given to us as always Love, Justice, and Mercy, a Heav
enly Father dealing with His children not less tenderly
than a human father with an erring son !

   " Do you remember who it is that troubles you with
this long letter ? Do you remember when you kindly
walked from Farringford to Freshwater one day and in

my dining-room (as I see you standing now) gave your

Holy Book to your ever grateful

                        "Julia Margaret Cameron."

                                                             "Palm Sunday, 1878.

  "My dear Farrar: There is nothing of the kind
I can say quite sincerely which would give me greater

pleasure than to be allowed to sympathise with your
work, and to have my name in any way joined with it.

You cannot have the subject more at heart than I have,

but you can bring it home to men, and that is a great

privilege. I rejoice to hear of the sermons and of
278 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

their effect. May they become a thousand-fold more

fruitful.
   " He whose soul constrains him to speak strong words

will rouse some violent opposition, but sympathy is real

if more commonly silent ; and I am sure that you need
not fear that many hearts are not with you. That is

not to be 'unpopular' in any sense of the word which

Ican

   "
   cause a moment's   pain.  great  joy  to  me.  He will,
   Brooke's success  was a

think, use it as a trust.
          " With kindest regards,
                            " Ever yours sincerely,

                                         "B. F. Westcott."

                                           " Sunday Evening, 14th January, 1883.

  " My dear Canon Farrar : I cannot help writing
to thank you for the sermon of this afternoon ! I had

said so much to Horsley, and other friends, about last

Sunday's sermon, that I hardly dared hope they would

Ihear one as fine. But must say they were as satisfied
Ias was. Horsley said, coming out, ' Do you pretend
that you thought last Sunday's sermon finer? If so,
Iall can say is, I cannot understand how it could be,

/for have never heard anything to equal what we have

heard to-day.' And I feel sure he is right, and the

crowd of young and old men who heard it will thank

Iyou and bless you in their hearts as do most sincerely.

Fierce in your denunciation of sin, you comfort one
and encourage one at the same time by telling us how
to overcome it in words that the first scholar of our

time as well as the humbler people like myself can feel

saItnodfoedeu.l nsdoIergsktrnaaontwedfuyalosutoyowyuiolluinettxehcnaudtseIthmehyyardwslhryiotuinkldngowbtehuhsuo,nwdbeutrot

N
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 279

express my feelings without appearing foolish. Of

course I do not dream of your answering this note.
When we meet I will be able to tell you in better Eng
lish how much I have felt and how you have touched
me. I happened to sit with numbers I knew, and they

joined me in a chorus of delight. The anthem cooled

us down a bit !                                                         "A. B."
                          " Ever yours sincerely,

                                                               "January 2, 1902.

" Most Reverend Sir : I trust you will not deem it

an impertinence on my part in addressing these few

lines to you, but I cannot refrain from expressing the
deep sense of gratitude I feel towards yourself after a

Iperusal of two of your books. Some twenty years back

  frequently went to hear you at St. Margaret's, West

minster ; and at the time derived much pleasure and

comfort : since then, I regret to say, I have not looked
so closely to my future welfare as I should have done,

but an event in my life which recently happened has
                                                                        It was a
recalled  me (I   siIncaetreonlycetrtuusrtn)edto mmy ythsoeungshetss.,
loss by                                                                 or rather
          death.
my thoughts voluntarily returned, to the old days I
mention, and as I could no longer go to hear you, by
some impulse I was led to get one of your books from
the public library. It was ' The Fall of Man,' and I can
assure you I studied it with delight and profit. I have

just finished reading your 'Mercy and Judgment,' and

no book I have ever read so much comforted, instructed,
Iand delighted me. I feel so deeply grateful for such a

well thought out and common-sense book that could

not refrain from attempting in a few feeble words to

convey the sense of heartfelt gratitude I feel. Many
      280 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

      Idoubts which I had have been cleared away, and I think

      understand your meaning in the works referred to. Their

      perusal has made me more than ever determined to strive

      to have the higher life of the hereafter, and the other

      questions do not so much matter ; but at the same time,

      your vivid descriptions of God's love (as against the
      doctrine cf vengeance) have made me think that one's

      shortcomings will be looked upon from a heart of love,

      and not one wishing to put forward all errors so as to
      I Ipunish.
          cannot well express my thoughts, but do
      I Iindeed again and again thank you. I shall, if they are in
      the library, read your works.  wish had done so

      bef"orMe.ight I, as a set-off for troubling you, tell you of a

      little incident connected with yourself ? About eighteen

      Iyears ago went to hear you one Sunday afternoon at

      the Old Victoria Coffee Hall, Waterloo Road. The old

      theatre was packed with persons, mostly from the sur
      rounding slums. Your address was listened to in great

      silence, and at its close a man of the costermonger class,

      sitting next to me, turned to a friend of his, and, slapping

      Ihim on the knee, said, ' Bill, can understand that bloke,'
      meaning yourself. I thought at the time, and still

      think, that this was as eloquent a tribute as was ever

      paid to a man of learning addressing such an audience.

      Again asking your pardon for addressing you and with
                             I
      my  heartfelt  thanks     beg to remain,
                             "
                                Your ever grateful  servant,
                                                    "T. F. D."

                    " Sandes Tolen, Valdres, Norway, Aug. 22, 1903.

         " It will interest you to know that up here, right in

      the wilds, in a Norwegian house, we have found a trans
      lation of your father's 'Eternal Hope' and 'Mercy

S V,
      PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 281

and Judgment.'   It belongs to the farmer here, and is
well worn.
                                            ,,u j> ╗

But if the sermons brought the preacher much grati

tude, they also drew down upon him not a few anathe

mas from those who were wedded to the doctrine of

everlasting torment as a tenet of orthodoxy.  Of these

a single sample shall suffice : --

" Sir : If your sermon has been correctly reported in
the John Bull, which you preached last Sunday after
noon in Westminster Abbey, in which you boldly denied

the doctrine of eternal punishment, which is distinctly

taught in the Church of England, as well as in the

Word of God, for the Church teaches nothing contrary
to God's word ; you will, of course, if you are an honest

man, secede from that church as I believe Sir Samuel
Minton has done. You may be a theologian, but I fear

that you have never been taught by God's Spirit, or you

would not preach such a soul-destroying error as that
which you preached last Sunday, if the report be a cor

rect one. Look, for instance, at one passage, out of

multitudes that can be adduced, Rev. xx. 10: 'And the

devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire

and brimstone, where the beast and false prophet are

and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.'

Then read the 22d chapter, verses 18, 19, and you may
                 I think
well  tremble.            that  aynodurI  position as a clergy
man   is a most  fearful  one,            pray that your eyes

may be opened to see your danger before it be too late,

and you find yourself in the lake of unquenchable fire.

           " I am, sir,
                 " Yours faithfully,

                      "A Student of God's Word."
282 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   The following letter, written by my father to Mrs.
Hypatia Bradlaugh Bonner, daughter of the late Charles
Bradlaugh, is of interest : --

   " Dear Madam : (I do not know a single reasonably
educated Christian who takes the mere symbols of
heaven for heaven. We do not suppose that heaven is

a cubic city, or a pagoda of jewels, or even an endless

   seven-fold chorus of hallelujahs and harping symphonies.

Q Long ago a Christian poet sang: --

" O for a deeper insight into heaven :
  More knowledge of the glory and the joy
  Which there unto the happy souls is given ;

  For it is past belief that Christ hath died

Only that we eternal psalms might sing ;       .
That all the gain Death's awful curtains hide
Is this eternity of antheming,

And this praised rest : shall there be no endeavour ? -

  " If I could find a printed sermon of mine, entitled

' What Heaven Is,' you would see that we regard it as
a place of progress, of fruition of all that is noble, of

growth and progress upward and onward, of endless and

beneficent activity, of a love which knows no fear and

no hatred, of a growing more like to God because we

shall see Him as He is. In Browning's poems you will

see this view of heaven constantly set forth ; and the
eminent theologian, Whichcot, said two centuries ago,

' Heaven is a temper.' I have often quoted with ap

proval the saying of Confucius, ' Heaven means prin
ciple?? The old detestable notions of happy souls

rejoicing over the torments of the lost have long been
exorcised, and if you have time to glance at my ' Eter
nal Hope ' or ' Mercy and Judgment,' which now re
present the best opinions in the Church, you will see
PREACHER OF "ETERNAL HOPE" 283

many proofs that the Calvinistic horrors of an unnatural

theology have never been authorised by many men,

even by greatest Christian fathers and canonised saints

of the mediaeval Church.

  " Let me add, I for one have not uttered a syllable of
disrespect about your father, though I am a convinced
believer. I only met him once, as Chaplain of the

House of Commons, and we exchanged a courteous
greeting. Had I been able to show him Christianity
as I see
          do not think he would have wished to be
          iIt,

                                                            if
counted among the foes of our Gospel -- such was

his attitude. But Christianity has been more sorely

wounded in the house of its friends than by its enemies.
                                 " Yours faithfully,

                                         "F. W. Farrar."
                     CHAPTER XII

                     VISIT TO AMERICA

   In 1885, my father, in company with his friend, Arch

deacon Vesey of Huntingdon, and Mr. W. Ingelow, a
brother of the poetess, paid a long visit to Canada and
America. He landed at Quebec on September 13,
1885, and after visiting Montreal, Toronto, Buffalo, Bal
timore, Philadelphia, Washington, New York, Boston,

Chicago, and other principal cities of America, sailed
from New York on December 5. He was received by

both Canadians and Americans with quite extraordi

nary warmth and enthusiasm, a reception which justified

the  prophecy made   btyhaDt e"anif  Stanley on the occasion of
his  American visit                  Canon Farrar should ever

visit this country, he would create a furore : he is exactly
the kind of man that would suit Americans."

Not only was he already popular in America from his

books and    sermons    ("sebvyerAalmeorficwanhicphu,blbisyhethrse),  way,    had
been freely                                                              but  the
             " pirated

warmth and kindness of his reception was in no small

measure due to the fact that he had won the hearts of

Americans by his magnificent eulogy on General Grant,
delivered in Westminster Abbey in August of the same

year.

   He was engaged to deliver lectures on Dante and

Browning, and he gave besides many sermons, lectures,
and addresses on "Education," "Temperance," "Biblical

                        384
                  VISIT TO AMERICA             285

Exegesis," "Napoleon," "The Press," and "Farewell

Thoughts on America."

His eloquent lecture on Dante sent many Americans

to the study of that poet, and was most warmly received ;

though he used to quote with amusement the comment

of a Chicago journalist, who said that the fact of the

poet having gone over from the Guelphs to the Ghibel-

lines was proof that Dante was a Mugwump, and the

father of Mugwumps ; and the saying            dtoehfaedalneiscstIuunerde,i!a"n"aOpoh,

lis newspaper man, who remarked of             not a dead issue.

yes",  it is all  very well, but Dante   is a
       Dante,"    replied the lecturer,  " is

He taught lessons which are filled with instruction and

inspiration for all time to come." His application of

the moral truths to be learned from the study of Dante

and the poet's message for ourselves is so fine and char

acteristic an example of my father's literary methods

and style that I am tempted to give here an extract

from this lecture.
   " Is vice in this nineteenth century dead, that you

can afford to despise the lessons which would set it

before you in its true nature ? Is any of that pitch on
our hands ? Are any of our tongues tipped with that

envenomed flame ? Are none of us tempted like those

wretches in the vestibule of hell, to stand leisurely neu

tral in the great conflict between good and evil ? If any

of us have followed the example of those whom Dante

saw in that place, then Dante has the same strong and

significant lessons for this century that he had for the
days in which he lived. You have all read the Book

of Wisdom, and you know the lesson of the last chap
ters of that remarkably eloquent book is this : That

wherewithal man sinneth, by the same also shall he

be punished. It is always one sin, and that a favourite
286 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

one, by which souls are destroyed. Sometimes in a

single line Dante infuses a moral lesson which is a

moral gain for life. One lesson he teaches is that the

forgiveness of sin is one thing and the remission of sin

another. The spirits in purgatory do not feel worthy to

see God till the angels have brushed from their fore

  heads the seven letters which stand for the seven sins.

\That punishment is the easiest to bear which follows

 soonest on the sin. Another truth which Dante points
 out is the absolute necessity for repentance. He means

to teach us, too, that there is danger in contact with

evil. He feels the taint of the vices he looks on. He

feels that he becomes base as he listens to the revil-

ing"s   of the  base, and false when he    listens  to treachery.
       Dante's   vision has in it a moral  lesson   worthy to be

pondered long, for it is a faithful allegory of a spiritual

torment, certain to be visited on all who forsake God's

law. The moral hell and moral heaven consist not only

in flames of torment and beatitude, but in tempers ; not

only in flames or golden cities, but in phases of the soul.
His object is to hold up before men the purity of God's

moral government, to arouse them to a sense of the

mystery of their state, to point them to the beauty of

the Christian temper, to teach them the fulness of the

grace of God, to bring the human soul to a conception

of the possibility of rising step by step into a joy not

imaginable by man, and yet of a higher order than the

ideal of earth. His subject is not so much the state of

souls after death, about which Dante knew just as much

and just as little as you or I, because he knew just as

much and just as little as has been revealed to us by

God. He does not mean to describe a kind of hell in

which all mankind has ceased to believe as a reality, but

behind this he means to give the full verity of a moral
                  VISIT TO AMERICA                                    287

hell. His subject is not so much the state of souls after

death as that man is rendering himself liable, by the

exercise of free will, to the rewards and punishments of

justice. It is solely by realising such truths that any

one of us can attain the ideal which Dante wanted to

picture forth before us and help us to attain -- the ideal

of one who in boyhood is gentle and obedient and

modest, in youth is temperate, resolute, and loyal, in

ripe years is prudent, just, and generous, and who in age

has attained to calm wisdom and to perfect peace in

God."

His lecture on Browning was no less eloquent. My

father drew much of his inspiration from Browning, and

seldom preached a sermon without quoting from him.
He had the deepest reverence for his genius, and

counted it among the choicest rewards of his life to be

honoured with     his intimate    p"eArsohnuanl drefrdienndasmheips.      He
says of him in    this lecture :
                                                                      drawn

from the history of all ages would not exhaust Brown

ing's dramatis persona or adequately represent the

many-coloured tapestry on which he has woven so many

figures, now lurid as the thundercloud, now soft as the
summer's eve. No other poet has sounded such depths

of human feeling, or can startle the soul with such a

kindling energy. There is hardly a period, hardly a

human situation, on which he has not flung the light of

his splendid genius."                             in "Men I

   The effect  "  of this  lecture  is described
Have Known
                  :--
" In later years Mr. Browning was particularly cordial

to me, not only because he knew how deep was the

debt of gratitude which I owed to him for all that I had

learnt from his poems, but also because he was kind

enough to believe that I had greatly promoted the sale
288 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

of his writings in America. When, some ten years ago,

I visited America, it had not been at all my original
intention to make what is called 'a lecturing tour,' but

only to deliver a theological course on a particular

foundation to which I had been invited by the Bishop
of Pennsylvania. When, however, I yielded to the

strong pressure which induced me to lecture in some of

the great cities of the States, I chose 'Browning's

Poems ' as the subject for one of my lectures. The

poet's readers and admirers in America could not at
that time have been very numerous, for before I gave
               at Boston -- certainly the
my   lecture   city in the United States              most intellectual
and  literary
                                                     -- I was told that

not half a dozen copies of his poems had been sold there

during the year. The morning after my lecture, every

copy which could be procured either in Boston or in the

neighbourhood was in immediate demand. Mr. Brown

ing more than once expressed his obligation to me for this

service ; but I could not claim the smallest gratitude.

II am sure that he overestimated the effects of my lec

tures upon the sale of his works ; and, in any case,

was only acting in the spirit of the old sentence, Xafitrd-

Sia ev yepdiv e^oire? hiahaxrovaiv aWrfKoii. I was trying

to hand on the torch which had given light to me."

   It would seem from this that Browning's recognition

by the American public was even tardier than it had
         England. In
been in  Have Known   "thitshecofnonlleocwtiionng    my father tells in
                                                     interesting anec
" Men I
Idote, which he had from the poet's own lips : " once

tshpeenmt aastSeur nodfayBaaltlioOl x--foordne  at   the house of Dr.   Jowett,
                                                 of   those charming   Sundays

in which he used to welcome the presence of one or two

congenial guests. Mr. Browning was on that Sunday

the only other guest staying with Dr. Jowett, and I had
                    VISIT TO AMERICA          289

    a long walk and talk with him that afternoon. The
    second volume of ' The Ring and the Book ' had just

    come out, and something turned our conversation in the

    direction of his poems, of which he did not often speak

    voluntarily. He alluded without the least bitterness to

    the long course of years in which his works were doomed

    to something like contemporary oblivion, during which

    very few copies, indeed, of them were sold, and scarcely

    one of them attained to a second edition. I said some

    thing about the Browning Society, which had then been

    recently formed, and he said that there were many who

    professed to laugh at but for his part he was grateful
                    it,
    for this and every other indication of dawning recog
                      'I           a
    nition, considering the dreary time of neglect and
                                a         II
    ignorant insult which he had been doomed to undergo.

    And then he told me the story which he also, believe,

    told to others, but which narrate in the form in which

it 'he told to me that Sunday afternoon. He said that;
    when one of his earlier volumes came out -- think,
         it
     Bells and Pomegranates -- copy fell into the hands of
    Mr. John Stuart Mill, who was then at the zenith of hisJ.
    fame, and whose literary opinion was accepted as orac
                  S. Mill expressed his admiration of the
    ular. Mr.

    poems, and of the originality of the lessons they con

    tained and he wrote to the editor of Taits Magazine,

    then one of the leading literary journals, asking he
                                      a
    might review them in the forthcoming number. The
                                                 it if
    editor wrote back to say that he should always esteem

      an honour and an advantage to receive review from
                    S. Mill, but unfortunately he could
    the pen of Mr.  J.

                              '
    not insert review of Bells and Pomegranates,' as had
               a

    been reviewed in the last number. Mr. Browning had

    the curiosity to look at the last number of the magazine,:

    and there read the so-called review. It was as follows
290 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

' " Bells and Pomegranates," by Robert Browning :

Balderdash:

   " ' It depended, you see,' said Mr. Browning, ' on

what looked like the merest accident, whether the work

of a new and as yet almost unknown writer should receive

an eulogistic review from the pen of the first literary

and philosophic critic of his day, -- a review which would

have rendered him most powerful help, exactly at the

time when it was most needed, -- or whether he should

only receive one insolent epithet from some nameless

nobody. I consider,' he added, 'that this so-called

review   "  retarded  recognition of me by twenty years'
delay.'

The extraordinary enthusiasm with which my father

was   received   by   Americans     is illustrated by     the   fact
that  when he   was   advertised  to deliver a lecture         Edu
                                                        on "

cation" at the Johns Hopkins University at Baltimore, at
least twenty-five hundred persons, not including mem

bers of the University, made written application for

admission to the academy.

   The following extract from a Philadelphia paper gives
a good picture of the multitude which thronged to hear

him preach in the Protestant Episcopal Church of the

Holy Trinity : --
   "The appearance of nave and transept realised the

hackneyed expression of a ' sea of faces ' to the most

jaded imagination. It was a veritable sea, in which all

architectural distinction was drowned. Nothing could
be seen of the dividing lines of pews. The divisions of

the aisles were completely lost, or only indicated by
currents in the ocean of humanity. This marine effect
was heightened by the appearance of the organ loft,
which, hanging in the air above the entrance of the

v
VISIT TO AMERICA                                  291

church, and crowded with a multitude of people so great
as to hardly allow the choristers room to open their
hymnals, looked like a towering rock to which the sea
below had risen, and, falling, left there the debris of the
tide. Only the Holy of Holies was left uninvaded by
the multitude. The steps to the chancel were occupied
by long rows of men and women. One white-haired

old gentleman sat on the very pulpit steps. Between

these places of observation and the chancel were chairs

on which women were seated. The very cushions on
which communicants kneel about the chancel rail were
occupied. The fringe of this crowd was on the steps
of the church and in the street itself."

   The sermon was on Biblical Exegesis, and the
preacher took for his text Hebrews xiii. 27, " And this

word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those

things that are shaken as of things that are made, that

those things which cannot be shaken may remain."

[^People," he said, "often worry themselves because
they cannot believe this or that, when this or that has

nothing to do with true religion, when this or that is
not insisted upon by the Universal Church. You feel
uncertainty about this or that passage in the Old Testa

ment, about the sun standing still, or about the rising

of a dead man at the tomb of Elisha. I counsel you to

study these things humbly, get the best accounts of

them you can, but remember that they are questions

of history, or archaeology, to which you, at the best, can
                                       Finally, if you
only bring intelligent consideration.

cannot understand them, let them go. These are not

generally necessary to salvation. There is not a word

about them in the Apostles', or the Nicene, or the Atha-

nasian Creed, nor in the Thirty-nine Articles of the
   292 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   Christian faith, nor -- more important still -- is there

   a word about them in the Lord's Prayer, nor in the
   Sermon on the Mount. You will not be questioned

   about those things at the bar of Judgment. You will

   *******be asked if you have kept your body in temperance,

   soberness, and chastity ; if you have been rigidly hon
   est ; if you have heightened the moral standard of the
   world by your presence in the world.
   " Do not, I entreat you, confuse the truths of Chris

   tianity with a mass of disputed or disputable questions.

   Christianity does not depend upon this or that particu

   lar view of sacraments or mysteries. Christianity is not

   what St. Augustine taught, nor St. Anselm, nor Bishop
   Pearson, but what Christ taught. Do you believe in

   the Lord Jesus Christ ? Do you keep His command
   ments ? Do you love your brother as yourself ? These
   are the questions for you to ask yourself. In heaven

   there are neither Anglicans, nor Catholics, nor Dissent

   ers ; neither High, Low, nor Broad Churchmen ; neither

   the Damnamus of Augsburg nor the Anathema of
   Trent. It is the abode of saints -- that
                                                                                       is,  of the good.

   So taught the Founder of this, your city of brotherly

   love, saying would be for you to stand or fall as you

   fulfilled the teaching or neglected it. If we are Chris
           if
                    it
   tians,  we are good men, according to our lights,

   nothing can make us afraidTj

   Another extract from sermon preached in the same
                                    a

   fcrhoumrchidoflrsom"  the text " Little children, keep yourselves
                              splendid example of the fiery eloquence
                         is
                            a

   wit"hDwohincohnme yoffatyhoeur,  denounced wickedness and idolatry.
                                      my brethren, worship Moloch, or

   Mammon, or Baal Peor? Have none of you in your

   hearts secret niche for Belial When your heart                                           is
           a

                                                                                    ?

'
                         VISIT TO AMERICA                       293

absorbed in a passion of envy, hatred, and rage ; when

you are determined, if you can, to wound by false words,

by bitter attacks, by open or secret injuries ; when you
display the ' eternal spirit of the populace ' by giving

yourselves up to a passion of reckless depreciation of

social, political, or religious opponents ; when you in

voke the very name of            Genoedmitehsat--yiosu    may emphasise
the curses against your                                 God the God of

your worship ? Of your lips, yes ; of your life, no.

What are you then ? Whatever you may call yourself,

wh"atAnarde  you but a worshipper of Moloch ?               of  nothing,
             when you talk of nothing, think
scheme after nothing, I had almost said, pray for noth

ing, but money, money, money, all the day long ; hasting

to be rich and so not being innocent ; ready, if not down
                                                 ;
right to forge or steal in order to get                     yet ready to
                                                       it,
adulterate goods, to scamp work, to have false balances

and unjust weights, to defraud others of their rights and

claims, to put your whole trade, or commerce, or profession

on footing which, perhaps conventionally honest, yet
a

       it
goes to the very verge of dishonesty toiling for money,

valuing first among earthly goods, looking up to those

who have won             it, itas though they were little human
                            it,
gods, hoarding                 dwelling on;      measuring the sole

success in life by marrying your sons and daughtersitis
                                          a it,
with main reference to -- God the God of your
worship Of your lips, yes of your life, no. What
if
are you then but an idolater,?                 worshipper of Mam
                     ;?

              if is
mon                                              is ;   the current of

  " If you are drunkard, or impure                 if
                         a

your life absorbed and swayed by unholy impulses                ;

you have flung the reins upon the neck of your evil

passions                 the temple of your body full of chambers

in which wicked thoughts are ever banding before the
   294 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   walls which glow with unhallowed imagery -- again is
   God the God of your worship ? Of your lips, yes ; of

   your life, no. What are you then but an idolater ? In

   what respect are you then less guilty than Zirnri, the
   Prince of Simeon, who worshipped Baal Peor ? Not an

   idolater ? Alas ! my brothers, every one of us is an

   idolater who has not God in all his thoughts, and who

   has cast away the laws of God from the government of

   his life. I know not that it is a much worse idolatry to

   deny God altogether and openly deify the brute impulses

   of our lower nature than it is in words to confess God,

   yet not to do, not to intend to do, never seriously to try
   to do what He commands, or to abandon what He for

   bids."

     IMy father was much                              f"ail

   to be, by the cordiality
   have been impressed,"
           touched, as he               could hardly
                                        in America.
           of  hsisaidre, c"epwtiiothn
           he                           the warmth and
   universality of the kindness that I have received on all
   sides. It has come not merely from the bishops of the

   United States and Canada, but also from the representa

   tives of all religious denominations, including Roman

   Catholics, Quakers, and Congregationalists. I have

   been most struck with the enormous power of life,

   energy, and vivacity in every department."
      Of American audiences he says : " Some one has

   spoken of the ' appalling silence of American audiences,'

   and that strikes one as their most remarkable character

   istic. The stillness is absolute, and the attention of the

   audience is perfect, but they are exceedingly undemon
   strative, much more so than English audiences."

   This remark applies to his Dante and Browning lec

   tures, but when he lectured on a subject so near their

   hearts as Temperance, an American audience could be

   demonstrative enough. Of his lecture on Temperance,

-
           VISIT TO AMERICA                             295

delivered under the auspices of the National Temperance
Society in Chickering Hall, New York, a correspond
ent wrote : " Over and over again some enthusiastic

listener, bubbling with excitement, let his feelings run
riot in applause, and when the Archdeacon rose to reply,
the scene for a few moments was of a most extraordinary
kind, so terrific was the outburst of applause. One less

used to public life would assuredly have been tremen
dously embarrassed by the overwhelming cordiality of the
demonstration, but the man of massive, marble brow,

lined with the intense application of his life of study,
stood the very picture of calm self-possession waiting to
be heard."

   The following letter from an American pastor is of

interest in this connection : --

           " Brooklyn, U. S. A., June 4, '77.

" Dear Dr. Farrar : Ever since your incomparable
' Life of Christ ' appeared I have counted you a personal
                                 I read you'r fearless
benefactor. But now whenever     abstinence reform, I   and
eloquent speeches for the total                         hail

you as the benefactor of all Britain and the world.

   " Allow me to thank you -- not only for myself, but

for the Executive Committee of the ' National Temper

ance Society ' -- of which I have the honour to be the

chairman.

   "When in London (in 1872) and addressing meetings
in Exeter Hall, with my intimate friend Rev. Newman

Hall and with Sir Wilfrid Lawson and others, I had not

yet known of you as a battler in our ranks. When next

I visit England, it will give me great delight to take the

hand which has wrought such a service for me as the

preparation of your books and addresses.
296 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" We, too, have an uphill clamber with this movement

aga"inBsut t  the  decanter and the dram shop.        shall  be  won.
               in  God's ' by and by ' the victory

We are fighting the most gigantic curse that desolates
our globe. You in Britain and we in America have a

common partnership in toil for the rescue of our Saxon

race from this monster evil.

   " It will give me great pleasure to receive even a line
from one whom I so revere and even love.

   " Please to present my kind regards to Dean Stanley,

who honoured me with many courtesies when I was

visiting London, as the Deputy to the Presbyterian

General Assembly of Scotland. I cherish the memory

of that rare and saintly woman, the Lady Augusta, as

do other Americans who ever saw or knew her.
" With highest regard,
                      " Believe me,

                      "Yours most sincerely,

                                     "Theo. L. Cuyler,

                      " Pastor of Lafayette Ave. Church."

Considerations of space forbid me to relate in detail
                      of this American tour. In "     Men I
tKhneowinncid"emntys                                             Have
                      father has given reminiscences  of his     pleas

ant intercourse with famous Americans, Oliver Wendell

Holmes, John Greenleaf Whittier, James Russell Lowell,
his dear friend Phillips Brooks, his generous host George

W. Childs of Philadelphia, Cyrus Field, and others.
After this visit especially, reciprocal ties of peculiar
kindliness attached him to the Americans. He fre

quently entertained Americans, both at Westminster,

and afterwards at Canterbury ; an American pew was

set apart in St. Margaret's for their use ; and he took
                VISIT TO AMERICA                      297

especial pleasure in showing parties of quick-witted and

enthusiastic Americans over Westminster Abbey or

Canterbury Cathedral. America was associated for him

with some of the happiest memories of his life, and he

never failed to recall with gratitude the generous en

thusiasm, the warm kindliness, and the boundless hospi

tality which he experienced, both in Canada and among

the citizens of the Great Republic.

His old friend, Archdeacon Vesey, who accompanied

him during a great part of the American tour, has been

Igood enough to contribute some reminiscences which

will preface with a letter which  my father wrote     to urge

him to be his companion : --

   ииииии" 17 Dean's Yard, Westminster, May 5, 1885.

" My Dear Archdeacon :

        и
" As to America -- grasp your nettle ! or rather your
                                                      If you don't come
rose,  with  its odour   a--ndyfoeuwwtihllornnesv.er
now,   you   never will                               see Niagara -- or
the Lake of the Thousand Isles -- or the Rocky Moun
tains -- or Boston -- or an iceberg -- or a humming-bird.
As for the Bishop, he will be only too glad that you

should have a change, and would be horrified to think

Ithat two days with him should keep you. He needs
nothing. I do.  want your company. It would make

all the difference to a neglected and unprosperous man

like me.     We will sail   to  Quebec early in September.
          the Allans of    the
I know                          Allan line, and would get a

good cabin. The fare is only ,Б18 first class. By com

ing with me you would have very little expense. We
should probably get free passes on some, if not all, the

lines, and I have already invitations for self and friend
   298 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   at all the principal cities, so you would be saved all hotel

   bills -- which might not happen another time. We

   should be received very kindly ; it would cost you very

   Бlittle, and you would come back like a giant refreshed

   with wine. What is 50 would not cost you more)
   aa

        I
                                               ?
                                                     !
                         I
                                      it (it
                                                 is
                                        Б
                                                   Б
                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                     is
   to man like you Why,  less than 10 or

   to wretch like me  enlist the powerful aid of Mrs.

   Vesey.  am sure she will wish you not to lose this

   opportunity.  " Yours affectionately,

                                    "F.W. Farrar."

   Archdeacon    Vesey writes as follows --

   " It was my   good fortune to accompany Canon
   a                                                                                                     Farrar
                                      '

                                                                                                        :

                                                                   it,

                                                                                       a
                                                                                             a
   for considerable part of his tour through Canada and

   the United States in 1885. On the voyage out we

   experienced an Atlantic gale. It was approaching on

   our first Sunday, and the conduct of the service held

   in the saloon was, to those responsible for    matter

   of some anxiety. Farrar preached admirably for few
   minutes on the words He bringeth them to the haven

   where they would be,' supporting himself by the handrail

   of the companion ladder, and, in spite of the general un

   comfortable conditions which he shared with the congre

   gation, succeeded in riveting every one's attention. In

   Canada he began delivering his lectures on Dante and

   Browning, preaching always twice on Sundays, and often
   at other times. The first was the popular lecture, and

   was given in many of the large cities. It was always

   highly appreciated, though hint was once given to me
   a
                                                 a

                                                             I
   by great personal admirer of the lecturer, but for

   whom the subject had not an equal attraction, that

   should ask my friend not to talk quite so much about
   'that Dant!'

S
                 VISIT TO AMERICA                     299

" I think his greatest effort was the address at the

opening of term at the Johns Hopkins University at
Baltimore ; this was expected to be delivered to a body

of some 150 or 200 students, but the desire to hear it
was so great that it became necessary to engage the
large theatre of the Academy of Music, where about

3000 people filled stalls, pit, boxes, and gallery to the
roof. From the stage he gave a brilliant address upon

the Educational Value of Philosophy and the claims of

science to occupy a large share in the studies of a great

University. It was illustrated, after his manner, by

abundant quotations, and he held the vast audience

enchained for nearly an hour and a half, not only by the
interesting and attractive way in which a dry subject, as

          '

             it
                                                  ' ! ' it,

                                                                a

                                                                                                  :

                                                                                                 a

                                                                   I
some might have thought was presented, but also by
the charm of his singularly musical voice.

   "Wherever he preached great crowds assembled to

hear him, and there were instances where some, unable

to get into the church, climbed ladders and listened at

the open windows. One lady told me she had travelled

one thousand miles to hear him. At one church --
think was in Baltimore -- the crowd was so great that

hundreds stood outside, and the carriage in which Farrar

was could not get up to the door. When at last he got

out, he was taken in charge by policeman, who called

out Room for the Deacon and when the vestryman

asked where he was, replied, I've got the Deacon under

my"  arm.'  one  could  accuse  Farrar  at  any time  of want
     No

ing the courage of his convictions and so, with most

cordial feeling towards Americans and the deeper appre

ciation of the extreme kindness and hospitality with

which they had received him, he did not hesitate to

speak out on certain points, as may be seen from the
I I [_^      300 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR                                      It

                   ' Farewell Thoughts on America,' an address deliveredit     is a
                 in Boston, Philadelphia, and New York. He smarted
                   occasionally when the interviewers worried him at inop;
                   portune moments, and though always courteous, he could
                   not help alluding in the above-mentioned address to the;
                   ' intrusiveness of the baser portion of your Press,' a
                   complaint which was justified by the conduct of one of ?
                   the journalists, who forced himself into your father's
                   bedroom, and next morning entertained his readers withI
                   a detailed, but not very accurate, description of his
                     dressing-gown and slippers.I

                         Among the remarkable Americans whom he met, or
                   wno showed him hospitality, were President Cleveland,
                   Mr. Bayard, Secretary of State and afterwards Ambas
                 sador to Great Britain, Mr. Cyrus Field, Mr. C. Vander-
                 bilt, Mr. George W. Childs, his friend Phillips Brooks,
                 afterwards Bishop of Massachusetts, the Reverend Dr.
                 McVicar, and many others?1'/

                          cannot better conclude this chapter than with
                   passage from his address, " Farewell Thoughts on

                America": --
                     " have stood astonished before the growth, the

                   power, the irresistible advance, the Niagara rush of
                   sweeping energy, the magnificent apparent destiny of
                   the nation, wondering whereunto would grow.
                   the work of America to show to the nations the true

                ideal of national righteousness. In numbers you are, or

                   soon will inevitably be, the greatest in strength, the
                   most overwhelming in wealth, the most affluent, of all
                 the great nations of the world. In these things you
                 not only equal other people, but excel them. Why
                   Mainly, believe, because your fathers feared God, and

                God has said, 'Him that honours Me will honour.'

"
VISIT TO AMERICA              301

I do not believe that America will turn her back upon
the ideal of her fathers. I believe that she will be

preserved from those perils which lie before her by the

memories of the dead and by the virtues of the living.

I believe that she will help to keep the nations from the
horrors of war. I believe that she will lead us on in a

triumphant path to a legislation that shall fearlessly

Ismite the head of every abuse, to a religion that shall
be free from fetich worship.  believe that she will
justify to humanity her majestic faith in man. I believe

that it is for these objects that God has given her an

exhilarating atmosphere, a constant azure above her

head, and a boundless territory beneath her feet. I
believe that she is linked with us of the Old World

in the bonds of a manly and of a righteous friendship,

and that by the blessing of God's peculiar grace, you

with us and we with you shall be so enabled to work

out a new world for the glory and happiness of mankind,

that hoary-headed selfishness shall feel his death-blow

and go reeling to his grave, and many of the vilest evils

which have hitherto afflicted the corporate life of man

shall live but in the memory of time, which, like the

penitent libertine, shall start, look back, and shudder at

his earlier errors."
CHAPTER XIII

BREAD UPON THE WATERS

Farrar's books are before the world to be judged on

their merits. They do not, of course, appeal to all alike ;

but, in so far as popularity is a true measure of worth,

his reputation may be safely left to the verdict of the

public. That his teaching has been spiritually helpful

to thousands, is proved   not only   bsyucthheweonrkorsmaosus"   de
mand in all parts of the  world for
                                                                The
Life of Christ," "The Life of St. Paul," and "Eternal

Hope," but by the fact that during a long course of

years never a week, hardly a day, passed without his

receiving, from learned and simple alike, earnest letters

expressing the heartfelt gratitude of the writers for in

struction, help, and comfort derived from his books and

sermons. Hundreds of such letters exist, of which I

have only been able to find space for a few examples.

  But the point which I wish now to emphasize is that

there was in his teaching a sympathetic quality, an ele

ment of psychic magnetism, which impelled many to

whom he was personally a stranger to look upon him

as an unknown father confessor and to write to him,

from time to time, letters confiding their spiritual

doubts, difficulties, and aspirations, or the most inti

mate problems of their lives. Such letters, though

they added much to the burden of a heavy corre

spondence, my father, who was one of the most kind

                          302
              BREAD UPON THE WATERS                              303

and generous of men, and grudged neither time nor

trouble in the service of his fellows, never failed to

answer, if only in a few well-chosen words of earnest

sympathy or helpful advice.
   By the courtesy of Mr. Brooks, a correspondent from

India, who, though he had never seen his beloved

teacher, yet  wrote to him    every year or     even oftener to
acknowledge    his spiritual  indebtedness
                                                to his works, I

am permitted to print the following letter, which well

illustrates this gracious quality of accessibility in my

father.

in  "When on the   23d  of  March I      saw the brief       notice
    the Morning   Post                                       'Dean
                        --  an Indian    paper -- that
Farrar is dead,' the shock was so real that I went about

for" dYaoyus  after as one who had  received a heavy blow !
              would not wonder at
                                    it if I could convince you

of what your venerable father had been to me. So far

back as twenty-one years ago it was through him that

I was brought, while reading 'Eternal Hope,' to the

feet of the Saviour whose life he had so uniquely por

trayed, and for whose sake he was ever pleading with

suc"hI  strength and  beauty.       and  hence  it  was  never   my
         have never   left India,

privilege to see the Dean ; but he has been at once so

ennobling and elevating a character to me, and has ever

been so accessible and gracious, that he allowed me to

feel  as if he knew me perfectly    well.           writing  to  him
                                    not resist
   "  Eighteen years ago I could

and begging him to enrich me with his photograph.

That picture for a long time now has been the sole
adornment of my study table, and to-day it stands

below a ledge holding over fifty volumes from the pen
of him whose likeness this is. Two years later my
304 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

request to publish two of the Canon's sermons -- one on
the Salvation Army, the other on the Luther Com
memoration -- was acceded to with the same old-time

andIgra"ceItcourtesy.of  him  that he      never  failed  to  reply
was       so good

to a letter.  wrote to him once, sometimes twice,

every year, and without a single failure, and punctually

by return mail, the cheering, comforting, inspiring an

swer would come. Precious as these letters undoubt

edly are, they are doubly more so when I remember that

with an environment of incessant pressure and a thou

sand calls on his time, the Dean yet would reward every

one with an autograph answer. If punctuality is the

politeness of kings, accessibility is, if anything, a higher

virtue ; and how preeminently both these shine out in
Dean Farrar, while it seems an impertinence to empha

it,
    is

     I
           I

                           '
                                is
                                        a
size what could humbly bear very strong testi

mo"nHy etoo. nce wrote, It                 pleasure to me to know that

one whom      have never seen . . . entertains a kind

feeling for me.' How characteristic a remark, when            !I

could frame   everything have had from him                in gold

   "Another   letter -- very short one indeed             -- betok
                         a

                          I

ens the pressure of his surroundings --
                                           :

                     "'House of Commons, August           8,  1892.

" Dear Mr. Brooks                          write this line to offer you
a

         '

               is

                       a

                          :I
sincere thanks for your birthday congratulations re

ceived this morning. May God be with you.'

" Here        quotation from another letter -- also dat
ing from the House of Commons -- which has been as

'"Itguiding star to me in my profession of life.
         rejoices me to know that you have attained so

*.
          BREAD UPON THE WATERS                           305

useful and blessed a post as that of Head master of so

large a school. It is a most important and respon

sible opportunity of doing good to those who are the

trustees of posterity, and you can render no service to
God more valuable than that of trying to win to faith

and true holiness the hearts of the young.'

  "Would it occasion any surprise if I said that my
duties have received quite a new shape as I try to per

form them in the light cf these words ?

  " I owe, and my family owe, to this scholar-saint what

we cannot even faintly acknowledge. My youngest
brother and my eldest boy are both called ' Farrar,' and

they are conscious that the name is an incentive to the
doing of all that is ' lovely and honourable and of good

report.'

  "Almost the last letter I had from the Dean con
cluded with the words, ' I offer up for you at the throne

of grace an earnest prayer that God's care may keep

you safe  from all evil.' There are some who would re
gard the
          language as conventional ; but I would say, in

all humility, that to me and mine, most truly the prayers

of "thYisourigwhoteuoldusnomtanacchuasvee  availed much.  for writing  as
                                           me of egotism
I have done. I am writing to a son, and feel I cannot
Iadequately speak of the goodness of the father, as

exp"eSriuenchceda    it.      as his was, could    only be happy       in
                   character
Iblessing others, and suppose I am only one of a host
who, though personally unknown to Dean Farrar, still

enjoyed the high favour of his counsel and the benefit of
his prayers. His was a large heart, and he was always

gra"cIitouisslyinoapnedn  to speak  to everybody.  the    Kingdom      of
                          through   such men that

the Christ is exalted, and sons and daughters are won
306 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

to Heaven. Can we ever be sufficiently grateful to

them, or exhaust ourselves in expressing our deep appre
                              "T. Archd. Brooks."
ciation ?

  I have also ventured to give anonymously, and with

such reservations as shall secure from discovery the iden
tity of the writers, a few letters which show how men and
women, seeking comfort for their souls, turned instinc
tively for help to the author whose books and sermons
had been to them as dew in the wilderness, and who

felt justly confident that in appealing to him for a more
personal and individual measure of counsel and sym
pathy they would not appeal in vain. More of these
letters, many of them human documents of touching

interest and pathos, might be given, if space per

mitted ; I think, however, these are enough for my pres

ent purpose.

                                  "April 27, 1901.

" My dear Sir : I cannot help writing just a few
Ilines to you, to say how very glad I am that you have
got through your severe illness.  have watched the
Ipapers every day to see how you were going on. I am
so glad that you are better.      do hope that such a

great man as you will long be spared to preach and

write as you have done. I have a few of your books,
some of them written thirty years ago, 'The Silence

and Voices of God,' 'Seekers after God,' 'Eternal

Hope.' I work ten hours a day in a cotton-mill, but
never a week passes but I take one of your books down

Iand read some portion of it. They are really charming
to me. I only wish that could go and hear such a

man speak or preach, but I am only poor, having been
       BREAD UPON THE WATERS                          307

somewhat unfortunate, and I have four children to bring
up ; one boy I am trying to keep at school till he is put

some   trade.

" But  I shall
Ito                               of              if
                 try to get more      your books      can,

and leave them to my boy, and tell him that he must

read such books. I have only been to London once, a
long time ago. If I could come again sometime, I

should try to come to see you and perhaps hear you

preach, about which I have read so much. You gave an

address on temperance at Oxford a long time ago, the

best that ever I read. I am a temperance man, never
touches drink in any form. Allow me to say again how
glad I am that you are better.
                 " I am, sir,
                                " Yours truly,
                                              " F. S
                                                             ."

  " Dear Sir : I am a Jew by birth, and have given

my heart to Christ through your work, ' Life of Christ.'

Twenty times I have read the chapter of the Cruci
fixion, and twenty times I have bitterly weeped. I am
a Russian Jew, and your valuable work I have read in

Russian language. Being persecuted of my brethren,

I have corned in London, and now I am in a Christian

establishment  mfeortocbolnisvse,rtIedcannJeowt sf.orgeBtu, tanmd ynomwedbieciinng,
what has lead
in England five months, I have wished to read the origi
nal of ' Life of Christ.' But alas ! I cannot find it. To
buy I am poor, and to read it in the free librias I have
not time ; have I decided to ask of you, in memory of
my salvation, the book 'Life of Christ.' I trust in your

Christian love.  " Your truly disciple in mind,

                                       " Ben-Zion Lensman."
308 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" Frederic W. Farrar, D.D.             " February 6, 1879.

" Well-beloved though unknown friend : Although
                                                   and I a
you are    chaplain to the   Queen of  England,             poor
isolated,   world-hidden,   neglected              cannot   help
                                       invalid, I
Iloving you, and beg you to lend me your eye and heart

a few moments.
I" You perhaps remember that
                                       wrote you several
years ago, when you were yet at Marlborough. Your re
sponse, although brief,                                ' the law of
the Spirit of Life,' and  was the very marrow of
                                                       I was then
                          I prize it above rubies.

clinging in remorse and torturing apprehension to the

edge of the precipice that slopes into bottomless perdi

tion. Your letter awakened me fully to a sense of my

ruin and the absolute necessity of an immediate, final,

and self-sacrificing grapple with the legion of devils
Iwhich had taken possession of me.
                                       would have writ

ten to you sooner in acknowledgment of your kindness,
but thought it best to defer till I could honestly say that,
through the grace of Christ, I had been more or less
Ivictorious over my enemies.
                              have lost many a battle

since you wrote me, but not the burning desire and ever

increasing effort to be more than conqueror through

Him that loved me. I am still a poor sinner, but have

broken many of my fetters, and hope, through grace,
        to be the Lord's freeman.
Isoo"n                                             of  the great
        have no words to express my sense

ness and grandeur of the Christian life inspired by your

writings. Although I cannot go with you in your view

of the ultimate destiny of those who perish in their sins,
my heart has gone a thousand times across the Atlantic

in warmly affectionate greetings for your sweet, lofty,

soul-guiding, soul-elevating words."
         BREAD UPON THE WATERS                                              309

  " Dear Sir : I write to you in awful trouble, because

you are so good and merciful. Oh, help me ! My brother
is dead -- has destroyed himself. Not on purpose --oh !
do not think that, -- he was ill, worried, not himself,

and in a moment of madness it was done. But I cannot

      it,

            I
bear cannot be resigned, cannot pray.                       feel as
                                               ;                            I
could never    believe in God or love Him again.                            so truly,I if iIf
                 come to you, because you believe  I
   " And so

because you are so sincere, so merciful because have

more faith in you than in any man on earth. Oh!

you have any pity, write one little line and help me.

am only poor weak girl, whom you have never met.a
But you will forgive me because am crushed with
                                            I

...mis"eDryi.rect to  "

                                   "North Dakota, U.S.A.

" Reverend Sir Pardon stranger for intruding
                      :

                              Ia
                                          a
                                     I
                                                                         a
upon your valuable time, and believe that only the desire

for the information asked for below prompts me to do so.

Many years ago, when but boy, read, in some publi

cation, the name of which have forgotten, sermon

preached by you at Westminster. The text was John
xvi.
      9-1 1.   deep  into my mind  and      fifteen  years  of pioneer
   "
      It sunk

life on this Western frontier have not effaced the domi

                         'Christ judging the Prince of this
nant thought of      it,
                                        it
world.'        have tried to find           among your published
'
works in this country, but so far have been unsuccessful,
       I
hence this letter to you. Will you please inform me
        I                it,
where can procure either in pamphlet form or among

your published works           I  have your Life of Christ,''

                         '
                            ?
 Seekers after God,' Early Days of Christianity,' and

'In the Days of thy Youth'; and though belonging to
310 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

no church, those books have often steadied me by their

high ideals in this rushing life of the West, when other
wise I might have gone utterly
                                 astray ; for the life of an
attorney -- my profession -- is  here full of temptation.
   " Trusting that you will not think me too presumptu

ous in thus trespassing upon you,

            "I am, sir,
                 " Respectfully yours,

                                        "S. B. M ."

                                        " March 17, 1902.

I  "Dear Dr. Farrar: Though       Ian insignificant stranger,

   am venturing to write to you,   as would like you to

know how    one  of your books has  been used by God.
   " Some  five                     a copy of your ' Lord's
                 years ago, I gave
Prayer ' to a lady to whose sister I am betrothed. She
lent the book, humanly speaking by chance, to a friend,

upon whom it made a great impression. It was the

beginning of a new life for him. Of course he had gone

through certain forms before, but apparently did not

have any real love for Christ. But all that is changed

now, and I know from my own personal knowledge that

he has experienced a very real conversion. He has

been working for God ever since, and on Saturday night
there was opened at Smithwicks a Gospel Hall which he

has largely, if not entirely, built. The lady I mentioned

went to the opening meeting, when about five hundred

people were present. The gentleman told her how

rejoiced he was that God had so blessed his efforts, and
added this sentence -- ' All through Dean Farrar's book.'
   I"Those are the words
                          was desirous you should

know. My friend has joined the Plymouth Brethren,

Iwhilst I am as keen as ever upon the Church of England,

but know you will agree that the denomination is of
            BREAD UPON THE WATERS                                    311

secondary importance, -- that the belonging to the real

Ch"urTchhanokf iCnhgriysotu  is the essential   thing.       I have  done
                              for help myself,    as indeed

before,                      " Yours very respectfully,

                                              "E. W. J               ."

                                                                       "November 7, 1899.

    " Reverend and dear Sir : Loving reverence and

deep gratitude constrain me now to write thus to you,
            I have
as  indeed           thought  of doing for some years past.
            all the  work in  which you are engaged for God
    " Amid

and His Church, and among the many claims, which

even perhaps as you read this are upon thought and

time, will you pause for a brief moment to receive the

thanks of one who owes, perhaps more than pen and

ink may express, of deep and earnest thanks for all the

spiritual and intellectual help your writings have been

to me.

   "For twenty years your 'Life of Christ,' that beauti

ful study of the grandest theme that has ever occupied

the mind and thought of man, has been beside my Bag-

Ister's Bible almost as a daily text-book ; and want to
Itell you that some years ago, when for months was

going through a dark time of doubt and soul-question

ing, when through looking too much at Christians repre

senting the Christ, I had lost sight of Himself lor a time :

then it was that glancing again at that ' Life of Christ,'

and knowing that to one of your great intellect and

questioning mind, Jesus Christ was a living blessed
reality, my soul found anchor and my heart could rest,
in spite of storm and stress. God bless you, dear Dean

Farrar, and reward you ten-thousand fold by flooding

and filling your heart with that same rest and peace.
   312 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   ..." Then since the ' mists have rolled away ' your other
   books have been a great joy to me.  ' From Dark
   ness to Dawn ' I have read and re-read, for it opens up

   that page of history in an intensely fascinating way.

   My children like it better than any of their story-books.

   I am reading now to my three little girls at home, on

   Sunday afternoons, 'Gathering Clouds,' to which they
   look forward with much pleasure. And though you may

   smile at her precociousness, the youngest, who is only six,

   is deeply interested in the story of Philip and Eutyches

   entwined with the history of the great Chrysostom. . . .

   You will forgive my telling you all this, but I thought

   you would like to know how the children love your books,

   as well as those of a larger growth.
      " With many apologies for thus trespassing on your

   time, and with earnest prayer that our God may spare

   you yet for years to His church, which has so much

   need of your faithful voice and fearless pen, and with

   deep and affectionate gratitude,

           " I am, dear and Reverend Sir,

                                  " Your obedient servant,

                                       ФC. K. T ."

      "Will the Dean allow a woman to whom his writings

   gave great help and light doctrinally (twenty years ago,
   and more, now), to thank him again, not only for that
   but for more personal comfort and strengthening in a

   time of spiritual depression -- which she has received

   from hearing his rendering of the lessons lately, in the

   Morning Prayer at the Cathedral? As a pastor of

   souls, he will, she trusts, think it no intrusion on her

   part, to tell him of this good gift which God has sent

   through him."

r
     CHAPTER XIV

     DEAN OF CANTERBURY

In 1895 my father was nominated by Lord Rosebery
to the Deanery of Canterbury, rendered vacant by the

death of Dean Payne-Smith. Although its acceptance

involved a considerable sacrifice of income, having lived

to see most of his sons and daughters settled in life,

he had little hesitation in accepting the appointment.

Canterbury is the premier Deanery of England, and the

new Dean, the thirty-first since the Reformation, took

over the rule of the great Cathedral, imbued with a

profound sense of the value to the Church of England

of its historic associations.
An extract from his inaugural sermon may be given to

illustrate the spirit in which he assumed his new duties,

and his high ideal of the Cathedral as a factor in the

life and thought of the nation : --

"Canterbury Cathedral surpasses even Westminster

Abbey in the closeness of its connection with the eccle
siastical history of the English race. What the Abbey

is for the history of the English nation, that the Cathe
                                                    It has
IIdral is fortheofthaendEnogflisEhdwCahrudrchI.II,          its
of                                                    and   its
memories
     history
     Henry
tomb of Henry IV, and relics of the flower of English

chivalry. Here lie many of the English Primates ; here

are concentrated the memories of thirteen centuries of

our Church's history -- memories of St. Augustine of

                               3╗3
314 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

Canterbury, and the Bretwalda Ethelbert ; of St. Dun-
stan and King Edwy ; of St. Alphege and the Danes ;

IIof Lanfranc and the Conqueror; of St. Anselm and

William Rufus ; of St. Thomas a Becket and Henry ;
of Stephen Langton and Magna Charta; of Chaucer
and the Canterbury Pilgrims ; of St. Edmund of Canter
bury (one of the loveliest of our holy examples); of

IIIArchbishop Parker and Queen Elizabeth; of William

     and the saintly Tillotson; of the tragic martyrdoms
and violent deaths of Archbishop Sudbury, of Arch
bishop Alphege, of Archbishop Cranmer, and of Arch
bis"hoApndLaeuvde.ry English Cathedral, by its structural mag
nificence and its historic reminiscences, is a noble wit
ness for two most precious heritages of the Church of
God : the continuity of worship and the continuity of
faith.

   " These glorious cathedrals evinced the intensity of
that belief, stimulating a princely munificence which
must almost be said to exist no more. We do not, and
could not, alas ! in these days build Canterbury Cathe
drals or Westminster Abbeys, though they were built,
not by a nation of thirty-nine million, but by a nation
of less than five million, which is now the population of
London alone, and they were built by a nation of which
the wealth was but a drop compared to the Pactolus of
riches which now rolls into our coffers over its sands
of gold. They are the costly legacy from the poor ages

of faith to the wealthy ages of selfishness. It cannot
be denied that in those days -- in spite of error, igno

rance, and superstition -- the saints of God held their
faith with a more burning and self-sacrificing conviction
than in these more feverish and worldly times. Happy
f
                DEAN OF CANTERBURY                               315

is it for us that their faith has been eternised in these

lovely legacies, for --

    " They dreamt not of a perishable home
      Who thus could build. Be mine, in hours of fear,
      Or grovelling thought, to seek a refuge here ;
      Or thro' the aisles of Westminster to roam,

      Where bubbles burst, and folly's dancing foam

      Melts if it cross the threshold.

of  " Only let   us all,  from the highest to the                lowest, be
                          without sincerity, without             reverence,
    one mind,   -- that

without thoroughness, without attention, there can be

no acceptable service, no beauty of holiness. The in

cense will but smoulder distressfully on the altar if it be

not enkindled with the flame of true devotion. Oh, let

no familiarity, let no frequency in our services, cause
them to sink into mere idle functions. Let our songs,

our anthems, our services, our Scripture lessons, our

sermons, always mean something; let no professional
ism, no careless lolling, lounging indifference, or lack of

due reverence, ever degrade their pure gold into odious
dross ; and even you, my boys of the choir, -- in whose
    hinatpepreinset,ss--adndiffifcuutlutreaswelfakrneowI
Ipresent                                                  shall  always feel
                                                           the   effort may
a deep

often be to you, yet learn habitually to regard this sa
cred scene as ' the place of angels and archangels, the

Court of God and the image of heaven.' Never whis

per together ; never stare about you to right or to left

as you enter this holy place ; never enter in a straggling
or irregular manner. Let no wandering thoughts taint

with worldliness or sin the prayers and praises which

will be so blessed if you learn to offer them with a pure
heart fervently. May God take you under His gracious

care and keeping, and make you, in heart as well as in

name, the children of His Sanctuary I
316 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

" But, apart from its architectural glory, and beyond

the sphere of its daily worship, a Cathedral should be
an impulse, a source of elevation, ' a centre of all civilis

ing influences, material, intellectual, social, in the world

around it.' The City, the Diocese, the whole Church

of God, should rejoice in                  and be the better for it-
          ;a

                             it

                                           a
                                               it,

                                                                               it
Each separate class and guild of Art and Science, of

Commerce and Soldiership, of Philanthropy and Educa

tion, as well as all ranks and degrees of our ordinary

life, should look to as source of strength. It should

extend sympathetic love and generous influence to the

young the boys and girls who grow up under its purple

shadows should be the better in life, and the richer in

memories, from its influence. Sometimes, at least,

should gather the little ones of Christ under its roof in

the Name of Him who loved them, took them up in His
arms, laid His hands upon them, and blessed them."

What the Dean did for the structure of the Cathedral

    briefly told  nbayrramtiyvebro--ther,  the  Rev.  Ivor Farrar,  in
the following
is                :
       a
                                      ;Б

                                                           a
        " Like many another English Dean, Dr. Farrar had

to bear the punishment for the negligence of those who

preceded him. During the palmy days of the eighteenth

century, when the Dean received                    10,000     year, the

Cathedral buildings had been suffered to fall into sad

decay. Then followed the days of agricultural depres
sion, and the stipend of the Dean dropped to jБiooo a

year, and tottering walls and leaking roofs called loudly

for fabric fund to save them from utter ruin. The

work of preservation had been begun by Dean Payne-
Smith, but he had only appealed to the county of Kent,

too poor to render much assistance. On his appoint

ment in 1895, Dean Farrar issued wider appeal to all
                                                a
      DEAN OF CANTERBURY                                  317

churchmen to come to the rescue of their premier Cathe

dral. Б20,000 was needed for absolutely necessary work,

and by three years of incessant and ungrudging labour
Dr. Farrar raised some .Б19,000, which with care was

made sufficient to carry out the greater part of his de

signs. Of this large sum the main portion was spent on

work which made no show, and could only appeal to
genuine lovers of the old Cathedral. The roof of the

Chapter-house, the Cloisters, and portions of the Nave

had to be releaded before anything else could be thought

of, and only a small sum was left to restore the Crypt

and Chapter-house to something of their ancient beauty.

In the Chapter-house the neglect of centuries was pain
fully apparent. The ancient ceiling, once gorgeous in

blue and scarlet and gold, and bearing on its bosses the

escutcheons of the pious donors who had helped to

build the Cathedral, was in a lamentable and even dan

gerous state of decay ; the rain swept in through the

broken windows, and the walls streamed with moisture.

In commemoration of the thirteenth centenary of Augus
tine's mission, the Freemasons of Kent filled the great

East window with stained glass, depicting the heroes and

benefactors of Canterbury from Augustine and Bertha

of the sixth century down to Victoria and Benson of the

nineteenth. The ceiling was restored to its ancient col

ours and design, the remaining windows were reglazed,

and"  a new floor replaced   the old and broken tiles.    A
      The Crypt was in a    yet more pitiable condition.

long wall running east and west cut off the south aisle

from the rest of the Crypt, which is the largest in Eu

rope : the windows were unglazed, and the floor was two
feet above its proper level. The result of Dean Far-

rar's restoration enables the tourists of to-day to see the

fine proportions of the Crypt as they existed in the days
318 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

of King Henry VIII, without however the rich votive

offerings which once made the chapel of ' Our Lady of
the Undercroft ' the wealthiest treasure chamber in Eng
land. The side Chapel dedicated to the Holy Innocents
was furnished for occasional services. There was much
else that Dean Farrar wished to do. He had it in his
heart to make a marble floor for the choir, to repolish
the lovely marble pillars in the Trinity Chapel, and to
fill the west window of the Chapter-house with stained

glass. All this still remains for another Dean of Can

terbury to do ; but the paintings which adorn the screen
above the Holy Table, the splendid brass Communion
rails, the mosaic floor of the Sanctuary, and the beauty
and reverence of the Cathedral services bear eloquent
witness to the high zeal of the great and saintly Dean,
mwhaogntihfuicsals.'o"ught to make the House of God ' exceeding

   My father's loving care of the structure of Canterbury
Cathedral was the outcome, not only of his characteris
tic zeal for the structure of God's House, which he had

before so effectively exercised at Marlborough and at
St. Margaret's, but also of the ideal, which he felt so
profoundly, and constantly strove to make others realise,
of the Cathedral as the living centre of social and spirit
ual life in the city.

  At Canterbury, my father, by constant personal at

tendance and unceasing exercise of personal influence,
strove to bring it about that the daily services in the
Cathedral should be not only reverently and seemly
conducted, but imbued with the living spirit of worship ;
and, further, that every citizen in Canterbury should
realise and take pride in the Cathedral as part of his
own inheritance.
      DEAN OF CANTERBURY                                  319

The impression contributed by an American to the

American Sunday School Times may be introduced here

as giving an adequate portrait of the Dean in his

Cathedral.
   " So many Americans have had much more than a

glimpse of the famous Dean of Canterbury that there

might seem to be no reason for writing this impression
of a Sunday afternoon at Canterbury. Yet somehow

that service, with all that went to make it up, has always

remained fixed in memory as one of the whole and per

fect impressions of my life. I had been on ' a cathedral

tour ' on the Continent, but the English cathedrals, after

Iall, had been the ones which I always figured to myself
in the years when I kept hoping that some day should

see"  cathedrals.  was  my  first in  England,  and  not  one
      Canterbury

single element of all that my boyish and later imagina

tion had pictured out to me as the proper circumstance

and atmosphere of a cathedral was wanting. The altar,

the highest and remotest I ever saw, gleamed off and

up in the distance with its lights. The congregation

was made up of people from all parts of the earth,

among whom, here and there, appeared the bright-

coated soldiers. I remember the face of one of them
now. All around us were the tombs, and just beyond

the screen, at the foot of the steps, the Martyrdom.

The organ broke the silence now and then with one

of those restless, preliminary groanings which make an

organ seem like a living thing, and then, beginning

softly, I heard on the stone flags of the aisles in the dis

tance the scuff of the feet of the choir as they came

do"wnAtfotrhetheensdervoicfe.the procession came Dean Farrar,

and for the time Canterbury summed itself up for me in
320 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

him, just as Westminster always does in Stanley. The

thing that impressed me about him most, and at once,

was his apparently utter obliviousness of himself or his
position. The Dean walked on to his place, with his

head bowed, and seemingly with no sense of being

anything but a part of it all. Professor Palmer says

that one of the signs of being spiritually mature is in

feeling that one is only a part. Well, then, I never saw

a great man in a great position from whose whole being

that feeling seemed to go forth as from Dean Farrar.
He was evidently at his own disposal for that service,
and wholly so. The service was all; he was simply

a part.
   " But the crowning impression for me that afternoon

Iwas when the time came for the second lesson, which,

believe, is always read by the Dean, when he is present,

as his regular part of the service. In the same absorbed
manner, as if seeing nothing around him, but wholly

devoted to the thing he was doing, he went up to the

reading-desk, found the lesson of the day, and began to
read words which, of all Scripture, were to me the most

perfect and wonderful to express what I was feeling,

and which said out the very heart of an occasion, as
words had never said for me before, ' Wherefore, seeing

we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of

witnesses.' I sat spellbound by the appropriateness of

it all, and feeling something beyond good fortune in my
                           which that lesson fell. And now
being  there the  day  on
Dean              one  of  the witnesses, but I shall always
       Farrar is

think of him as he stood reading those words.

                                   -- John Sheridan Zelic."

   The Dean kept in warm touch, through the Mayor
and Corporation, with the municipal life of Canterbury ;

V
              DEAN OF CANTERBURY                            321

through his friends Colonel Abadie and Colonel Frith,
and subsequently through his friend -- an old Harrow
pupil -- Colonel Hegan, with the soldiers in the barracks,

who after his death testified their respect by volunteering

to line the nave at his funeral; with St. Augustine's

College ; with the parish churches of Canterbury ; with

the hospital; with every organisation for good in the

old city.     instance,  -- he  revived  an old  kindly  custom,
   For one

which had fallen into desuetude, that the Dean and

Chapter should go down into the nave and shake hands

with each member of the congregation at the close of

the evening service on Christmas Day. How much this

custom was valued by the citizens, and its effect in giv.

ing a sense of personal relation between the Cathedral

body and the humblest worshippers, the following letter

will show : --
  " ' Cheer up, mother ! Please God I shall be with you

again Christmas Day and shake the clear Dean's hand

again.'

  " ' Ah ! mother, I so often think of our Sunday even
ings, when I see in the "Press" that the dear Dean is
                     '
going to  preach   1
" My first sentence was uttered on the platform of

the S. E. R. Station at Canterbury, when my dear boy
started for South Africa, where after a few months' service

he succumbed to enteric fever ; the other sentence is an

extract from my boy's letter who is serving with his
regiment in Burmah. My youngest boy is a member of
the Y. M. C. A. and a constant attendant at the Bible

Classes, and I feel sure that, after God, we are indebted

to Dean Farrar for the influence his sermons (more
                                         on the ' Prodigal       '
particularly  the  course  preached                         Son
                                                                  )
have had on the lives of these boys. May God help the
                        322 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

                        Dean and spare him long to minister in the Cathedral

                        he has done so much to beautify !              ,,

                        "Christmas, 1901."

                        At Canterbury his perennial love of young people
                        found ample and beautiful scope. His numerous grand

/) ** ^                 children whose highest privilege was a visit to the

                        Deanery ; the boys of King Edward's School ; the boys

                        of the Simon_ Lan^jnvSchopJ1S ; the boys of the Cathedral
                        choir; "aria most of all perhaps the boys of the King's
                        School, -- on all these he
*-"'       4t *<'o*ifc  which was one of his best   lavished the paternal affection
                                                    characteristics and which con-
      "**$

/'^vr╗e                 tact with the young never failed to elicit.

Б l^r^J                 An extract from some reminiscences contributed by
                        my brother, Ivor Farrar, to an article in the British

                        Monthly, which the editor has courteously allowed me to

                        quote, gives  a good  picture of this side of  his Canterbury

                        life: --
                        " No mention of my father's work at Canterbury would

                        be complete without an allusion to his work among the

                        boys of the King's School and Cathedral choir, for he

                        had a wonderful gift of imparting to boys his own im

                        mense love of all that is best and noblest in English
                                      The boys were frequent guests at the
                        literature.

                        Deanery. Four of the senior boys were invited to break

                        fast every Sunday morning, while the younger boys
                        Iwere invited during the summer months to tea in the
                        garden.       was always struck by the high tone which he

                        gave to the conversation among these boys. He spoke

                        of the past history of the Cathedral, of the stories of

                        great and noble men in all ages and countries, and of

                        the poets, especially his four supreme favourites --

                        Milton, Dante, Coleridge, Tennyson. He never cared
              DEAN OF CANTERBURY  323

to talk of things of merely passing interest; but how

ever deep the subject might be, he never failed to make
it intelligible even to boys of thirteen and fourteen.
Still more wonderful was his influence among the little
boys of the Cathedral choir. My father dreaded lest
their frequent attendance at long Cathedral services
should make their religion formal and unreal. To

avert this danger, he devoted Sunday afternoons, from
two to three, to teaching them himself. Other and

less great men would have taken such a class without

any special preparation ; but on Monday morning' the
Dean began thinking of next Sunday's class, and he de
voted a portion of every day to preparing for it. After

his strength began to fail, I was often able to help him

by reading aloud to him when his poor hands were too

weak to hold a book, or even turn a page. And I noticed

that Driver, Cheyne, Stanley, Ellicott, and Westcott were
only a few of the books used in preparing to teach these
little boys of twelve and under. Still more remarkable,
when the lesson came to be given, the learned comments
of great scholars had become delightful stories, full of
life and thrilling interest, with lessons that any boy could
both understand and use. The choir boys never failed
to enjoy his class, and the very last piece of work which
mnigyhftatbheeforredidheondieeadrt!h" was preparing for this class the

The following testimony by a King's School boy is
              the obituary notice to The Cantuarian: --
taken from
   " He ever   took the kindest interest in our work and

in our play. His delight at the success of some indi
vidual member of the school was unbounded. His

words of consolation and encouragement have many

a time -- we speak from experience -- taken away the
324 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

bitterness of failure. Those who were privileged to
enjoy the hospitality of his house -- and they were not
few -- will count as some of the happiest in their lives
those hours spent in the quiet bowling green, or over
the chess board, or walking along the old city wall while
the Dean advised and counselled or poured lavishly
forth from his wonderful fund of anecdotes. Often,
too, the monotony of the sick house was relieved by
a visit from the Dean, and if he was unable to come
himself he would send round some dainty for the in
mates with kind and thoughtful messages. For O. K. S.
he maintained the same regard as he had for the school.
He was ever anxious to hear of their doings, and re
joic"eMdainnythheairvesuchceeasrsdes.him say that at his death the
names of Marlborough, Harrow, and our own King's
School would be found written on his heart. We feel
sure that his name will ever be treasured in the hearts
of all King Scholars."

  A sidelight on his enthusiasm for the young is given

in the following letter to one of my sisters : --

                 "The Deanery, Canterbury, July 8th.

  " My darling Lilian : Just now I am unusually

pressed with work, and the Garden Party, with its three

Ihundred guests, drove out of my head my loving con
gratulations on your birthday.  need not tell you, my
dear child, how earnestly I wish and pray that, now

and ever, God's best blessings may be richly outpoured

upon you, making you very happy in your marriage,

and causing your life to be most useful for the spread
of His Kingdom.
r
            DEAN OF CANTERBURY                325

"I enclose the autograph, and with kindest regards to
            Mrs. Darlington, I am
John  and
                 " Your very loving
                                     father,
                                     " F. W. Farrar.

" We had such a happy function at the Cathedral

yesterday.     More  than eight hundred       boys and girls
from the    Sunday   Schools came, sang
                                              hymns, and I

gave them a ten minutes' talk on Missions. They pro

cseinssgeidngrohuynmd ntsh!e" Cathedral with trumpets and banners,

Even at some risk of overlapping, I give here three

further sketches by different hands, portraying my

father as Dean.

The first is an appreciation of his beloved chief con

tributed to this Memoir by his devoted colleague, Canon

Page Roberts ; the second an extract from the beautiful
memorial sermon preached on Sunday, March 29, in

Canterbury Cathedral by a colleague no less loyal and

devoted, Dr. Mason, Master of Pembroke College,

Cambridge; the third an extract contributed by my
sister, the Hon. Mrs. J. S. Northcote, to the British
Monthly.    This last extract refers in       part to earlier
periods of  my father's life with which
                                              I have already
dealt, but I could not find it in my heart to share it into

fragments, and have preferred to introduce it here in its

entirety.

  "ICanon Page Roberts writes : --

         had only known Dr. Farrar slightly before he
became Dean of Canterbury. Occasionally we chanced
to meet in London, and more than once I preached for

him at St. Margaret's. Soon after I had been appointed
326 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

to a Canonry in Canterbury Cathedral I remember say

ing to him, Archdeacon of Westminster as he then was,

that I hoped he might become Dean of Canterbury,
that place being then vacant. He shook his head and

with an air of depression said there was no chance of

further preferment for him. It had long been felt by

many that both Liberal and Conservative Governments
had overlooked the preeminent claims which Dr. Farrar

had upon the highest distinctions of the Anglican Church;

that both Liberal and Conservative Prime Ministers

deserved blame for ignoring such merits as his while

elevating less distinguished persons to the highest places.

It was thought by many that he was best qualified to
succeed Stanley in the Deanery of Westminster. Lord
Rosebery removed the reproach and Dr. Farrar became

De"aInt  of Canterbury.   load  of  suspicion  and  depreciation
         was as though a

had been removed from his shoulders, as though his

deserts, so long disregarded, had at length been acknow

ledged, that Dr. Farrar entered upon his new position.

Old friends and acquaintances perceived in him an un

usual contentment. Eager always and incessantly active,

he had now the air of cheerful satisfaction. At this time

he was certainly the best-known clergyman in the Eng

lish Church. Throughout the whole land, throughout

the whole English-speaking peoples, his name was famil

iar, the brilliance of his eloquence known. Wherever

he went he attracted crowds to the pulpits from which

he preached and the platforms from which he spoke.

Canterbury felt that a very conspicuous person had

come to occupy the decanal stall, was proud of the dis

tinction conferred on the city, and at once was fascinated

by the fervour of his splendid rhetoric, the richness of

his historic knowledge, and the high moral inspiration
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  327

of his aims. He called attention to the Mother Church
of England, till then too little considered. Looked upon

with favour by his Sovereign and the Royal family, the
King and Queen, at that time Prince and Princess of
Wales, honoured Canterbury by their presence at the
reopening of the Chapter house; and many eminent
persons visited her, attracted by his urgent appeals.

   "The need of the Cathedral for serious structural
repairs was felt by the Chapter. ' Our holy Mother
Canterbury sat with tattered robes.' The revenues of

the Cathedral had been gradually declining while the
permanent charges remained as large as ever, the Dean

and Canons alone suffering from the diminished yearly
income. The fabric was carefully maintained ; but there
were no funds available for large structural restoration.
With all the eagerness and pertinacity of his nature the
new Dean initiated a movement in cooperation with the

Canons of the Cathedral for the purpose of accomplish
ing the necessary work. The main burden of collecting
the funds required was undertaken by the Dean. To all
sorts and conditions of men he wrote, setting forth the

needs of the Cathedral and its historic and national

claims. Thousands of letters he wrote with his own

hands, those hands so soon to become tremulous and

helpless. To our kindred across the Atlantic, whose

response did not come up to his expectations, to whom
we may say the Cathedral belongs as well as to our
selves, he made appeal. From week to week, taxing

a strength which the unresting labour of years had

severely tried, he preached and spoke for the purpose
on which he had set his heart. From one end of Great

Britain to the other he pleaded the cause of the Cathe
dral he had come to love so well. What no other man

could have done, he did. Twenty thousand pounds were
328 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

collected by his untiring efforts and were expended dur

ing his tenure, too brief, of the decanal office. There is

little to catch the eye which can tell of the good work

which has been done. It is hidden in roofs and walls.

Not for decoration but for the preservation of the noble

fabric the funds were provided; and into that fabric,

making it secure for years, those funds have been

poured.

   "But in the care for the building itself -- and with

all its history, national and artistic, he was minutely ac

quainted   and   ever loved    to communicate it to   those  who
came to   visit                not lose sight of the  moral  and
                 it -- he did

spiritual purposes for which it exists. He preached

frequently at the popular Sunday Evening service, and

vast numbers crowded to hear him. He had a large cir
cle of friends among the clergy, and the most eminent of
these he invited to occupy the Cathedral pulpit. He was
the most generous and appreciative of critics. Few

could dream of equalling his eloquence or the extent of
his ever available knowledge. He took a certain amount

of pleasure in his own success, -- although he had a
tincture of pessimism, -- at least he liked to tell how

great were the numbers he from time to time addressed.

But he imagined that others could be as attractive as he
if they chose. While averse from the ritualism which

symbolised sacerdotal dogmas, he was careful of dignity
in worship. The ceremony appropriate to great eccle

siastical functions was studiously considered by him.
He never failed, whether it were at an assemblage of

bishops, the enthronement of a primate, or the solemn

pageant of an archbishop's funeral, to represent with
dignity the Cathedral of which he was chief. He insti
tuted a yearly meeting of the Deans of Cathedrals, the
first of which took place in Canterbury. He revived an
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  329

ancient custom of personally greeting, together with the

Canons, the citizens of Canterbury in the nave of the
Cathedral, at the conclusion of Evensong on Christmas
Day. He also organised a yearly service for the com

memoration of benefactors of the Cathedral. In the

boys of the choir he took the deepest interest, solemnly

admitting them to their office, encouraging them with

parental caresses, providing places for them when their

term of work was over, and each Sunday afternoon

teaching them himself in a Bible Class, -- a class for

which the widely read scholar made special preparation.
He was never more attractive than when with boys.
His interest in the King's School was unceasing and
that of an expert. The masters looked up to him as a
chief in their own profession. The boys recognised in
him a friend who sympathised with them because he
understood them. No one could speak to them as he
could. The brilliance of his meditated rhetoric disap

peared when he addressed them. Playfulness, sim

plicity, tenderness, memories of thoughts and things

from various ages, made a speech from him invigorating

and delightful. It was good to hear Archbishop Tem

ple, who had also been a schoolmaster, delivering his

rugged remarks with paternal benignity -- sunshine on

wintry rocks; but the Dean was incomparable; his

speech was like a thoroughbred, easy, graceful, and
free. The sixth form in the school received his frequent
hospitality and knew him intimately. Indeed, the hos
pitality of the Deanery was unbounded. Until the
completion of the new Palace the archbishops were
entertained by him. The Sunday afternoon and even
ing preachers received his welcome. On every possible

occasion the citizens of Canterbury were invited to his
home. His conversation was delightful without being
   330 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

    monopolising, and the timid and retiring were encour

   aged by his graciousness. At all the civic celebrations

    of Canterbury he was careful to be present and was the
    chief speaker; and some preferred his spontaneous
    utterances to his prepared productions. There were
    persons who thought his taste too florid. Certain dec
    orative additions to the Cathedral buildings, while
    admired by some, by others were looked upon with less

   favour. In these he was not alone responsible. Nothing

    was done without the assent of the Chapter, and the

   whole Chapter must take the praise or blame. If the

    Dean had a fault, and most of us have more than one,
    it was that when some idea entered into his mind, it
    became, for the time, a part of his life, to be pursued
    with unyielding determination. Opposition inflicted a

   wound. He could not bear it; and at times his col

    leagues yielded to his insistence from a sense of the
    quivering pain refusal would inflict. The Dean's nature
    was highly sensitive, and it was anguish to his colleagues
     to bruise it.

       " But patience came at last, -- that rarest product of

    Divine Grace, and with him it had its ' perfect work.'
    Gradually the silvery voice became inaudible. The fluent
    pen refused to answer to the will. The energy which
    never flagged, but carried the orator and advocate from
    one end of Great Britain to the other, ebbed away into
    trembling helplessness. No word of complaint was
    uttered. Carried to his stall, from time to time he strove
    to utter the words of benediction, and like St. John at
    Ephesus, to the last he sought his Church. Perhaps no
    one did so much in the nineteenth century to enlighten
    what have been called the Philistine religious classes as
    he did. While his learning was wider than that of the
    majority of scholars, it was used to elevate that stratum

\
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  331

it,of unintelligent piety which is the largest constituent of
the Churches. Lightfoot instructed the few. Farrar
educated the many. They read his books with delight
and without suspicion, imbibing almost unconsciously
a more liberal spirit. For he was liberal in spirit rather

than rationalistic in conclusion, -- more a preacher than

a theologian. Suspected as unsound by some because
of the very modest and almost hesitating book called
' Eternal Hope,' those who knew him clearly saw how

truly conservative was his faith. Not to doubt but to
pray was his ideal. For religion was paramount with
him. Theology was subordinate. Therefore it was that
the insinuations and virulence of certain critics failed to
alienate the middle classes of the various denominations
from his writings. Religion was the touch of nature
which made them kin. There is no one to take his place.
Other men will do other work, in some respects higher
work, than he did. His work was unique, and he ' being
dead yet speaketh.' His light still shines : --

                                         " Oh, never star

                            Was lost here but it rose afar."

   From Canon Mason's eloquent and beautiful memo

*иии*иrial sermon I take the following extracts : --
            и
   " How well he allowed us to know him. It was a part

of his great generosity that he did not shut himself up,
as some students might have done, in the retirement,
well though he loved of his study, or in the sacred
seclusion of his home life, though few men have ever
been so blessed in their home life as he. That home
was itself thrown open with the most liberal hospitality,
and we felt that the Dean not only came out to us from
   332 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

   time to time, but that he lived among us. There was

   nothing going on in Canterbury, -- nothing, I mean, of a

   wholesome kind, nothing that concerned the welfare of

   the City or of any class which it contained -- without
   the Dean having his share in it. At all kinds of gath

   erings the Dean was there, pouring out lavishly of his

   wonderful store of knowledge, and of his renowned elo
   'Iquence. A respected citizen of Canterbury said to me
   yesterday,  feel that Canterbury has lost the best

   friend it ever had." Especially where the happiness and

   the well-being of the young were concerned, his time,

   his powers, his possessions, were bestowed without stint.

   Many in Canterbury of all classes of society have life

   long reason to be thankful to him for the pains he took

   to procure suitable situations and employments for their
   sons. His great influence was exerted for that purpose,

   in letters and interviews, which cost him what money
   could not buy. What he did for the Cathedral choris

   ters, whom he taught every Sunday with a fatherly ten

   derness, and for whom he was preparing a lesson as

   usual last Sunday, when the hand of God summoned
   him; what he did for the King's School, and for the

   individual members of will not soon be forgotten. It
   a

                               it it,

                                                                         !

                                           it
                                                                                             ;
                                                          if
   was a characteristic of all his life at Canterbury that his

   last public act, the very day before he died, was to drive

   out in the high March wind to bestow his loved and

   honoured presence upon the King's School sports. Then,

   what life of industry was It seemed as he did

   not know how to be idle. When he came back from

   what were called his holidays, we usually found that he
   had preached in the principal -- sometimes also in the

   lowliest -- churches of the neighbourhood and that his

   pen had been even busier than was here, where all

   sorts of avocations interrupted it. Can you form any

v

\
              DEAN OF CANTERBURY        333

estimate of the number of letters which he must have

written -- letters with a rare force of persuasion in them
-- to gather nearly .Б20,000 together for the repair and

adornment of this church ? Most of his books were

written before he came to Canterbury, but he went in

cessantly on with his writing here, in his library, or

sometimes in summer in the arbour on his garden wall,

until that most pathetic of infirmities fastened upon his

hand, and for ever stopped his active pen. Few men

have ever written so much as he, and still fewer have
Iwritten what has been so widely read.
                                        have been

able to count up more than thirty separate books of his,

some of which are books in two large volumes, without

reckoning the innumerable articles which he wrote for

magazines. If you glance at the list of them, you see

that many of these books are in their third, fourth, and

fifth editions, while one is in its twelfth, another in its

fourteenth, another in its eighteenth thousand, while one

is in its twenty-fourth edition. This last is, of course, his
           '  sLpifeeakofarCeharilslt,E' nagnlidshtheedtitwioennst.y-foIudroendoittioknnsoowf
famous
which   I

whether there is any civilised language into which his

' Life of Christ ' has not been translated. He told me

himself of two independent translations of it into Russian.

I know that when I first travelled in Scandinavia some

years ago, there were two names of   Englishmen, and
only two, which were known to every
                                     Dane, -- as famil

iarly known as that of any born Scandinavian ; the two

were those of Spurgeon and Farrar. It would be idle

to pretend that the world was unanimous in its judg
ment upon the value of some of our Dean's works. His

impetuous and rapid intellect sometimes carried him to
conclusions which might perhaps have been modified if

he could have lent himself seriously to thinking out an
334 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

o--ppgoesniteeravlileywt.he  But those are --  at least for  the moment
                                                who, like    Erasmus or
                             ineffective men

Maurice, see both sides of a question and plead for the

recognition of what is valuable in beliefs or practices

other than their own. Farrar was not of that ineffective

order of mind. What he was convinced of, he was con

vinced of, and all his ardent soul went into the procla

и*ииииmation of whoever might take the other side. He was

conscious of having no wish but to follow and to enforce
the truth as he apprehended it.

             и
   it,
            it
                        it
                                                       a; a
" You must not think that this characteristic intensity

of conviction derogated from the largeness of his soul.

On the contrary made all the more remarkable -- all
the more a sign of Divine Grace -- that he should have

been so forbearing and so charitable towards those who

at any time differed from him. He felt more acutely
than other men do the pain of difference. His was a

peculiarly sensitive nature. He had more than ordi

nary longing to be approved and loved and any sign that

others disagreed with him caused him degree of suffer

ing beyond what rougher men could sympathise with.
But his heart went out tenderly towards those who in

flicted the suffering, and he was incapable of bearing

them ill-will.

  " It was said of Cranmer that the way to gain his          ;

affection was to do him an injury and to repent of it.           II
have reason to know that this was the way with Dean

Farrar. All Canterbury was proud of its Dean but

believe that when we look back upon those eight years

we shall feel that he helped us even more during the
last part of the time than he did during the first. Great

V
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  335

as was his work for the City and the Cathedral in the days
of his brilliant energy, he did yet more for us when his

powers began to decay, and he showed us by example

Ihow to suffer. If I may dare to say what appeared to

me to be the case, think the Dean himself was happier

during the last two years or so than I ever knew him
before ; and I am sure that he deserved to be so, for the

presence of the Spirit of God shone out more and more
conspicuously from his wasting frame. That busy right
hand lost its cunning, till he could not so much as turn

the pages of his sermon for himself, but had one of the
King's scholars beside him in this pulpit to turn them for
him ; then that wonderful voice which used to set the

hearts of thousands vibrating as he spoke of righteous

ness and temperance and judgment to come became

husky and feeble, and he was compelled even to give up
reading the lessons. But he never murmured. Not

even in his utmost privacy did he complain. All impa

tience, all fretfulness, were banished. We saw nothing
but cheerfulness, gratitude, ever growing thoughtfulness
for others, the courageous determination to go on doing
what he could and as long as he could. Not the greatest
of his sermons at Cambridge, or at Westminster, or here,
was so eloquent as the sight of our speechless Dean car
ried day after day to his place in the choir. Not the
most influential of his books was so convincing a wit
ness to Christ as that ' epistle known and read of all
men,' -- the epistle of his infirmities, not paraded, but
not concealed -- after the example of Him who confessed

upon the cross, ' I thirst,' where we saw exhibited the

transforming power of faith, so that it might be said of
the Dean, as it was said of one of the ancient martyrs,
that, ' Christ suffering in him achieved a great triumph,
showing in a pattern for the rest to copy that there is
336 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

nothing to be feared where the love of the Father is, and

nothing painful where is the glory of Christ.' Even if
we should forget ' the word of the Lord ' which the Dean

I' spake to us' with his lips while he 'had the rule over

us,' it will, believe, be impossible for us to forget 'the
issue of his life and conversation ' in the months of his

brave and calm advance towards a Christian death.
God grant'that as we 'consider' it -- especially you, the
                                             so dearly -- we may
young men and boys      whom     "he  loved
learn to ' imitate his  faith.'

   My sister,  the  Hon.  Mrs.   J.   S.     Northcote,  writes  as
follows : --
" My earliest recollection of my father goes back to

1869, when he was a Harrow master, and we children

delighted to look out of the nursery window on a winter's

afternoon, and watch him return from a game of foot

ball, looking so fresh and vigorous, his muddied dress

betraying the activity of his play. Another recollection,

relating to days when we had grown a little older, is of

our walking with him in the park at Harrow, when he

took us to feed the tame swans, and delighted our child

ish ears with stories, -- stories of Solomon and the Hoo-

poo birds, and other beautiful legends ; or of wandering

with him on the Marlborough Downs while he recited to

us such poems as ' O Mary, go and call the cattle home.'
His mind was such a beautiful storehouse of all that is

noblest in English literature, and I shall always love to

remember that the best part of our education was our

walks and talks with him. He simply loved Marlbor
ough. As we climbed the Downs he taught us to spy

out the blue-and-pink milkwort and tiny shepherd's purse,

to look for the rare orchids that were to be found in the

copses, or to gather the wild geraniums in the hedges.

V
* & :.' *:и' a;i' Era;
                 thefts
                wgct'i

                war

                Irites

                      -

                )sии

                :.-

                
f
         DEAN OF CANTERBURY                               337

My father always walked with his hat off, usually giving
it to one of us children to carry, while the wind blew the

hair from his forehead. He was a great walker when

ever he had leisure, as in the summer holidays, when he

invariably stayed some weeks at the seaside. Swanage,

in Dorsetshire, was a favourite resort for many years,

also Llanfairfechan, in North Wales, and Newquay, in

Cornwall. These summer holidays are particularly treas
ured in our memories as most delightful times. We

were a family of ten children, all healthy and strong, and

we went out in large parties with my father for long

walks over the mountains and along the seashore. These

rambles were always enriched by his wonderful talk. He

was very athletic. A Scotchman whom he used to visit

describes how he went up the mountains with ' the agil

ity"oIf  a young    deer.'  how  in  those  same  summer  holidays
         can also  recall

my father possessed a marvellous power of absorbing

himself in his work, in spite of so many children always

around him. Many of his books were largely written in

the leisure of these holidays, he sitting in the garden,

never disturbed by our merry games, or in a room where

other occupations were going on around him. In Lon

don his sermons were all written in a study that was only

separated by folding doors from a drawing-room where

his five daughters practised on the piano in succession.

His power of concentration prevented him minding in

the slightest degree what would have driven so many

men distracted. Those sermons in St. Margaret's !

Ihow wonderful they were, preached to such vast crowds

as, suppose, no other preacher ever gathered there.

Not only were the aisles crowded up with extra chairs,

but people sitting on the chancel steps, the pulpit steps,

on hassocks put out from the pews, and crowds standing
338 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

the whole service through to listen to the golden words

wh"icThhehavseocciahlanlgifeed   for good  so many lives.  charming.
                                at Dean's
                                           Yard was very

Around his table he gathered the historians, poets,

churchmen, and the eminent in science and art of his day,

and by his exceptional geniality and charm of manner

not only fascinated them one and all, but got even the

most reticent and silent to open out and talk as he did.

He also yearly filled his rooms with the rich and the

poor alike among his Church workers, having most

delightful 'At Homes,' which, as his enthusiasm for

social and philanthropic work widened, grew to many

sco"reDsu. ring the last years of his life my father preached

comparatively seldom, but he strove to make the Deanery

the centre of the Cathedral and town life of Canterbury.

The Deanery was filled with beautiful objects and rich

with colour. It was a quaint old house, and my father

was very proud of it and of the interesting collection of

Deans' portraits, of which not one was missing, from

the Dean of Queen Elizabeth's time down to his own.
Gradually the last sad illness, which began two years

ago, robbed him of his bodily, though never of his

mental, activity. It was atrophy of the muscles,

brought about by a slight fall some years before. But
it gradually stole over his whole body, till his hands and

arms were so helpless that he could not raise them even

to feed himself, and he could no longer hold up his head.

Then one by     one he had to surrender the    occupations
that he loved,                                 and serving
                -- writing, reading, walking,

in God's house. One by one they were laid aside with

unmurmuring sweetness, though it was a sorrow un

speakable to him not to be able to administer the Holy

Communion, or to read the lessons in the Cathedral, or
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  339

even to read prayers in his own household. He had to
be carried into the Cathedral for the daily services, yet
he bore it all with cheerfulness and a sweet dignity that

was very touching.1
   " But to the last his wonderful memory remained, and

his power of clear, full expression of thought in articles
and letters that could only be dictated. The last months
of his life were happy and peaceful, nevertheless. His
sons and daughters, who constantly gathered at the
Deanery from their different homes, felt themselves to
be in a holy presence, and never left him without a sense
of calm and strength and uplifting. He was cheered

by the diligent presence of many friends who loved to
be with him, and he was sustained and comforted by no
hands less loving and tender than those of her who for

forty-three years had been his beautiful helpmate, and

to whom he owed more than ordinary husbands ever can
owe to their wives. There was no distress of farewell
at the end. He sank quietly to sleep at the age of
seventy-one, on Sunday, March 22. The grave in the
quiet cloister that he loved is a fitting resting-place for
one who not only himself has entered into the joy of his
Lord, but who had set the feet of thousands on the same

shining road thither. In Christo vixit -- In Christo
vivit."

   The Deanery of Canterbury, the structure of which
dates back in part to the fifteenth, and in its older por
tions to the thirteeenth century, is in respect of its fine

   1 Extract from a poem by another sister, Mrs. J. S. Thomas : --

How the light of love streamed round him when his noble frame was
        bowed I

In what a Sabbath calmness did the last long shadows fall !
Hushed was the wondrous voice that used to thrill the listening crowd,
But this his latest sermon was the holiest of all.
340 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

reception rooms and lovely garden one of the stateliest

of the English Deaneries, and the joint taste of my

father and mother made of it a very beautiful home. A

striking feature of the Deanery is a very valuable series

of contemporary portraits of all the Deans of Canterbury
since the Reformation. To the restoration of these

portraits my father generously devoted a sum of money

which formed part of the farewell gift of his parishioners

at St. Margaret's. Very proud was he to be the custo

dian of the unique collection. He knew by heart the

history of all his predecessors (among whom was Dean

Bargrave, who had been, like himself, Rector of St.

Margaret's and a Royal Chaplain); and even in his

latest days, when he could no longer raise his head to

see the portraits, he was never weary of explaining them

with characteristic fulness of historical detail to the

numerous guests at the Deanery. The walls of every

room in the Deanery were clothed with beautiful and

interesting pictures which my father had gradually

amassed, and especially with copies, prints, or photo
graphs from sacred art. His passionate love of Art,

especially of sacred art, was one of his strongest char

acteristics. He was not a connoisseur of technique or

an amateur of style : he did not value pictures for their

froarr,ity"  or costliness;        he knew    little of,   and  cared less
                        "          loved his  pictures    with  a Catholic
             processes      ;  he

taste, partly as ministering to the refined colour sense

which he possessed in a very high degree, but chiefly

as the beautiful embodiments of deep moral and re

ligious truths. He could not endure walls bare of

pictures. As a schoolmaster, he loved to clothe with

prints or with the reproductions of the Arundel Society

the walls of his class rooms. Even the servants' hall

was thus beautified.
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  341

   He had travelled a good deal on the Continent, es

pecially in his earlier Harrow days, and the range of
his knowledge of sacred art in Continental galleries

and our own National Gallery was almost Ruskinian.
   This knowledge bore fruit in one of his later works,

the beautiful " Life of Christ in Art," published in

1894, a thesauron of reproductions of some of the most

exquisite sacred pictures in the world.
   One of his best sermons is the Sermon on Art, pub

lished in " Social and Present Day Questions," from

which I am tempted to give the following extract, to

show the preacher's power of seizing on the moral les

sons conveyed by a great picture : --

   " There was yet a deeper lesson in another strange
picture by Mr. Burne-Jones, called ' The Depths of the

Sea.' A mermaid, beautiful in face, but hideously

repellent in her scaly train, has flung her arms around a
youth, and is dragging him down through the green

waters to her cave. In her face is the intense malignity

of cruel triumph and cruel scorn ; in the youth's face is
the agony of frustration and of death. And the motto be

low is : ' Habes tota quod mente petisti, Infelix ! ' -- Thou

hast what thou soughtest with all thy soul, unhappy one.
Oh, that it were in my power to preach to all young men
a sermon of meaning so intense as that picture ! The

mermaid, like the Siren of mythology, like the strange
woman of the Proverbs, is the harlot Sense. She is the
type of carnal temptation, ending in disillusion, shame,

anguish, death. It is the meaning of that saying of the

rabbis, ' The demons come to us smiling and beautiful ;

when they have done their work, they drop their mask.'

It is the meaning of Solomon : ' But he knoweth not

that the dead are there, and that her guests are in the

depths of hell.' God has granted to that youth his
342 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

heart's desire, and sent leanness withal into his bones.

He has got what he passionately longed for, and it is --

dea"thOr!, once more !  If a youth needs not so much a

warning against the idolatries of sense as hope to secure

the conquest over them, could he learn the lesson in

a more inspiring form than by going into our National

Gallery, and there reading the meaning of Turner's
great pictures of Apollo and the Python ? The youthful

Sun-God, the emblem of victorious purity, is seated in

his circle of light, launching arrow after arrow at that
huge, loathly monster of corruption. Awful and terrible

as that destructive monster looks, it is but a colossal

worm. When the arrow pierces  bursts asunder in
   '

      I
                             it,
                              it
                                   is
                                                is
the midst. Any youth, think, who had in his soul one

gleam of noble imagination, might well, as he looked at

that picture, be inspired to hate the foulness of that im

purity which can so frightfully crush to death all who

put themselves in its power, but which yet weak as a

worm to those who walk in the light as Christ in the

light,' and who pierce the pestilent foulness with the

arrows of the dawn."

   In reference to his love   of art the two following
letters are of interest --
                                  " Bologna, Oct. ist, 1891.
  "My dearest Lilian:           began letter to you
:  a

         it
                   :
             I
                 I
                                            a
                                                                      a
week ago, but the pressure and exigencies of daily

travelling, and the absorbing demands of Venice, pre

vented me from finishing it.  therefore send this line

to tell you that you and all my children, as well as
Mother, are always in my thoughts. You had all the

enjoyments of delightful trip last year, so you can
judge how pleasant has been to Eric and me, and how
         DEAN OF CANTERBURY                             343

much we have learnt. Venice was as enchanting as

ever, to the last ; and I have greatly enjoyed my brief
visits to Ferrara and Bologna, where I have learnt more

about Giotto, Mantegna, Ercole Grandi, Dossi Dossi,

IGarofalo, and other painters than ever knew before.
At Bergamo I learnt to know the sweetness and power

of Lorenzo Lotto, and at Brescia the splendours of
IMoretto and Romanino.
                        have kept art steadily in
Iview, and it has been a great delight to me.
                                                        am

bringing home no presents. Your mother objurgated,

or rather adjured me, not to waste money on Salviati

glass and wooden figures, or pictures for which we have

no room ; and Eric bullied me out of buying an original
                      I could have got for
Paolo Vanino (which                            Б--3s)o  and an
inkstand copied from  the Porta della Salute,
                                                        I shall
have no presents this time. I am much distressed to

think that dear Mother has practically had no holiday

at all. We shall all miss Ivor. It is my earnest hope
that he will be happy and do well. You, I know, will
throw yourself heartily into all Parish work, and will

go on educating yourself. Good-bye. I am, dearest
Lilian,
                 " Your loving father,

                                   "F. W. Farrar."

                                               Ф Oct. 8th.

" My darling Lilian : We were so glad to hear from

your letter that you are enjoying delightful Venice

so much; but we were sorry to hear of mosquitoes.

Eric and I, by the help of pastilles burnt inside the

Zazezicri, carbolic acid soap, eucalyptus oil, and other

Jhings, escaped without one bite,           I knew when

l^" Tennyson is  dead.   What a loss ! but  day with him
Phillips Brooks         spent that happy
                 and I
344 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

at Aldworth last July that I should never see him

again. Since my youth he has been a delight and a

teacher to me ; and for twenty-five years a most kind

personal friend.  One of the poems in his forthcoming

volume -- a very  noble one -- was written at my sug

goef s"tthiDoeno?F^yreosucorenmicei,mIbethr intkh,e  picture shop at     the left hand
                                                     a little after you  turn from the

left out of the Calle which leads to the Hotel Britannia,

where I saw, and have ever since coveted, a little picture

by Padovanicino, of a child Christ with His arm on a
        ? If it is still there, and                       man will
globe                                                the  will take      lБet2)y,ouI  have
it for  Б2 (he will ask double,                      but                              wish

you would buy it for me. Miss Winthrop would doubt
Iless be kind enough to advance the money, and I would
pay her the moment you return.                            hope that the rest

of your stay and your return will be very happy. Kind

est regards to Miss Winthrop. I am

                         " Your loving father,
                                             " F. W. Farrar.

  " P. S. I write in great haste. I shall probably preach

twice on Tennyson at St. Margaret's on Sunday."

   In his beautiful Deanery my father, who was one of

the most hospitable of men, delighted to entertain a con

stant succession of guests. On one occasion he had the

honour of entertaining to lunch the Prince of Wales (now
our King), who came with the Princess of Wales and a
distinguished company to the opening of the restored

and beautified Chapter House. It was his constant aim

to secure illustrious and able preachers to edify and in
terest the congregations in the Cathedral. The preachers

were almost invariably entertained at the Deanery, so

XV
DEAN OF CANTERBURY                                              345

that he had generally one, frequently two, clergymen

staying with him from Saturday to Monday. It was

his practice to invite two of the King's scholars in turn

to breakfast on Sunday morning, and some guests were

almost sure to be invited to the charming and informal

suppers on Sunday evenings.

The visitors' book kept at Canterbury, as at Marl

borough and Westminster, showed a long roll of names,

including many of the most illustrious.

   Of all his guests at Canterbury none were more

welcome or more honoured than the two successive

Archbishops, Benson and Temple. The old Arch

bishop's Palace at Canterbury was accidentally burnt in
the time of Cranmer, and was left in ruins till Arch
bishop Parker, came, in 1559. He rebuilt the Palace
and resided in  but after his time part was pulled
              a
down and part converted into tenements. Since then,it,

                                              it a it

                                                             a
until 1899, when the portion remaining was restored, in

Archbishop Temple's reign, and now forms once more

the Archbishop's official residence, was the traditional

custom for the Archbishop when at Canterbury to be,

together with his chaplain, the guest of the Dean. For
the short, all too short, period -- about year -- that in

tervened between my father's appointment to Canter

bury and the death of Archbishop Benson, -- who died

on his knees in the House of God, death in beautiful

harmony with most saintly life, -- was my father's

constant privilege to receive the Archbishop and Mrs.

Benson as his guests whenever they came to Canterbury.
The friendship which had always subsisted between them

ripened in this intercourse into the deepest affection.

My father obtained from the Home Secretary permis

sion to bury Archbishop Temple in the Cathedral, where

no Archbishop of the Reformed Church had ever before
      346 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

       been buried. The last Archbishop interred in the
        Cathedral had been Cardinal Pole, in 1558. When
        Archbishop Temple succeeded Benson, the same cus
        tom obtained until the restoration of the Archbishop's
        Palace. For him, too, my father had the profoundest
       respect and almost the same affection as he had felt
        for his predecessor. On the last occasion when he en
        tertained him, Archbishop Temple, one of the least
        effusive of men, took my father's hand in both of his
       and said to him, "Words fail me to express my sense
        of your kindness to me."

           The closing years of my dear father's life at Canter
       bury will always be thought of by those who knew and
        loved him as the most beautiful years of a life of saintly

         service.

          An accidental fall, some years before, had set up an

        insidious process of degeneration in the spinal cord, the
        results of which gradually became manifest in progres
       sive muscular atrophy, and finally robbed him of all
        power in the upper extremities. Already, in 1899, he

      began to lose the use first of his right hand, -- that right
       hand which had toiled so long and so fruitfully in the
       service of mankind. The beautiful " Life of Lives,"
      published in 1900, was his last important book, -- the
       most precious, in some respects, of all his books. The
       atrophy spread till both hands hung helpless from

        the shoulders. Even the muscles of the neck were
       attacked, till he could no longer hold his noble head
        erect ; and finally atrophy of the muscles of respiration
        brought his life to a peaceful and painless end. But to
        the last his memory and his powers of mind were quite
        unimpaired, and his touching progressive weakness was
        concomitant with a wonderful and beautiful exaltation
        of the spiritual life.

X^
DEAN OF CANTERBURY                                       347

Truly -- for such as he --

The soul's dark cottage, battered and decayed,
Lets in new light through chinks that time has made.

   If, in the ardent zeal of youth and manhood, he hada
                      a
ever been impetuous or impatient ; in his hatred of
                               a if,
overweening sacerdotal claims, he had ever been unduly                                   ;
                                                   if
vigorous in denunciation -- intolerant he never was
is
any gusts of controversy had ever ruffled the surface of
             :that strenuous and noble life, all petty flecks and flaws
were now stilled in the calm of deeper spiritual insight,
all clouds were banished by fuller light of love. Whena  a
he could no longer gird himself to go forth and preach
                                                               :
the Gospel, there was granted to him closer walk with                          :

the God whom he had served.

   Often in suffering, daily growing weaker, he bore
both weakness and suffering not only with unmurmur
ing patience but with unfailing cheerfulness; and the

dogged courage with which he faced his duties to the
last day of his life, comparable to that of Browning's
heroic Grammarian.

   As his weakness grew upon him, he talked often of

resigning the Deanery, but his friend Archbishop Tem
ple would not suffer this and indeed he carried out to

the end, and most effectively, his duties as Dean.
   His colleagues can testify that to the last his experi

ence, his moderation, and his wise counsels guided to

the best ends all the deliberations of the Chapter when
he could no longer walk to the Cathedral, he was daily
carried thither in a chair by strong attendants, whom
he never failed to reward with few words of friendly
gratitude, and the spectacle of that once powerful,
now helpless frame daily borne to worship in the
House of God was more eloquent than many sermon
348 LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

to the last the social influence of the Deanery and the
generous hospitality of the beloved Dean were a power
for good in Canterbury, even though the gracious host
sat among his guests, cheerful, witty, kindly, full of
anecdotes and interesting historical reminiscences, as of
old, though wholly unable to lift a hand to feed himself,
or even to raise his head.

   Wholly dependent for his physical needs on the min
istrations of others, he was enabled to bear his disabili

ties by an absence of self-consciousness as rare as it was
beautiful. He never developed the peevishness or ex
acting selfishness which so often mars the character of
invalids, but was touchingly grateful for every little ser

vice, -- to his kind and devoted physician, Dr. Reid,
whom he was wont to greet with a shower of kindly

chaff ; to his children or guests when they read to him ;
to visitors when they brought him some little offering of
flowers or fruit.

   To my dear mother, who throughout his long decay
of physical powers hardly left his side for an hour, love
gave strength to minister to him by night as well as by
day, and, aided only by our old family nurse, to do the
work of two trained nurses. How faithful, how tender,
how lovely was her devotion, even those who best knew
my father in his home can only partially guess.

  I think my father was never happier, certainly never

more serene and cheerful, with a serenity that often
found its expression in a gracious playfulness, than in
the last three years of his life. Certainly he won the
love of others in fuller and more unstinted measure than
ever before. Many letters of sympathy reached him
from all quarters, among others a gracious message of
enquiry from the highest lady in the land.
v
             DEAN OF CANTERBURY          349

One of these letters is given here : --

                                                  "London, April 13, 1901.

"The Very Revd. Dean Farrar.
   " Sir : I do pray God will soon restore you to health.

SoEtfnt. egMnlaanIrdgaanrhdeats'tshfoe--uwsahinof dwsanoyfmteognroedI lhyhaavmveeendbeelepiknleorpeyrdoivuiy.leoguerOdhle, taovhiolniswg
ten to your never to be forgotten sermons. I thank God
I had that privilege -- and your books, full of comfort to
the dying. Oh, may God spare you. I am only a poor
woman, but I hope to see you in Heaven. There will be

a crown of glory awaiting you.
                                       " From a devoted hearer."

  I may be allowed to give here, for the sake of the

touching review of his life with which it concludes, the

last letter I ever received from his own hand, -- a letter

written on the type-writer, which for a time he was able

to use, when no longer able to guide a pen. It was

Iaddressed to me in India, where was at the time en

gaged on Famine duty : --

             "The Deanery, Canterbury, April 19, 1900.

   " My dearest Reggie : Your letter reached me this

morning. I need not assure you, for you will be sure
             ?

               I

                            it,
                                                                it

                                                                                                 a!
without my saying that you are constantly in our

thoughts, and are remembered daily before God in our
prayers. What wonderful experiences you are having

They must at times be very fatiguing, but must at the
same time be full of interest, and will always remain in

your memory. Have you ever thought of putting down

your adventures, and publishing them in the form of

little book  cannot really say whether would be
3SO LIFE OF DEAN FARRAR

wise or not, for, in these days more than ever, 'of

making many books there is no end,' and there are
shoals of books, and even some which are not devoid

of merit, which fall from the Press still-born. Have you

ever heard how many novels are published every single
day in the year ? No less than five ! One wonders

how    many of  these survive for a single week.     your
   "  We most   earnestly trust that you may keep

health in the midst of all your most useful labours, and

I feel sure that you will be sustained by the thought

that you are thus called to take your part in the Imperial

duties involved in the possession of our vast Empire.

It must require no little fortitude, and the assistance of

good spirits, to be moving day after day in the midst of
pestilence and famine ; but it will help you to know that

Iyou" are doing your best to alleviate both.         of my
        have been to two experts about the weakness  They
right hand, -- to Dr. Buzzard and to Dr. Ferrier.

both recommended the same line of treatment, namely,

daily injection of strychnia and weekly electrifying of

the arm. I tell Dr. Reid that he is constantly guilty of

assault and battery, and tell him that, like Henry the Sixth,

       " My anointed body
         By him is punched full of deadly holes.

  "Whether it does any good or not I really cannot

tell, but although the hand does not seem to get any
better, it does not seem to get rapidly worse. My ter

ииииииrible dread is lest the muscular atrophy should spread

and make me a cripple ; but I must bear whatever it

may please God to send.

              и

  " I can most honestly say that throughout my whole
life I have been kind to many, have earnestly striven
DEAN OF CANTERBURY  351

and desired to be kind to all, and have never once in
my life done any intentional harm to any human being.
That is enough for me, and

           " If powers Divine

                 Behold our human actions, as they do,

              I doubt not then that Innocence shall make

                 False accusation blush.

"With best love from mother and me, I am, my

dearest Reggie,  " Your most loving father,

                                     " F. W. Farrar."

   On March 21st, in spite of a bitterly cold east wind,

rather than disappoint the boys of his beloved King's
School, my father insisted on being driven to witness

their school sports. On the evening of the same day
he was busy in preparing with his usual conscientious

thoroughness the lesson which he was accustomed to

give on Sundays to the boys of the Cathedral choir.
   On Sunday, March 22, 1903, faithful unto death, he

passed away to receive his Crown of Life.

   " They that be wise shall shine as the brightness of
the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness
as the stars for ever and ever."
s

     \
                                   INDEX

Abadie, Colonel, 320.                                 " Biography (The Teachers of Man
"AbAbidostt,toDRr.e, fl1e4c5t.ion," Coleridge's, 14,       kind)," sermon, 258.
                                                      Black,
                                                                     , 76.
Alford, Dean, 39.                                     Blake, Admiral, 228, 229.
American Sunday School Times,                         Blake, Dr. T. W. Jex, 57, 116, 117,
"                                  319.
"  Apostles," society of, 39.      poem                   127.
   Arctic Regions, The," Farrar's
                                                      Bombay, Fort of, 1.
   on, 48-50, 137.                                    Bonner, Mrs. Hypatia       Bradlaugh,

Aristophanes, "The Birds," allusion                       382.
  ╗, 54.
                                                      Booth, General, 247, 261.
Arnold, Dr., 65, 89.                                  Bowen, Mr. E. E., 89, 117, 138.
Arnold, Sir Edwin, 26, 145, 203, 204,                 Bradby, Dr. E. H., 124-126, 141.
                                                      Bradlaugh, Charles, 282.
    229.                                              Bradley, Dr. (Dean of Westminster),

Arnold, Kerchever, 17.                                    142, 147-149, 151, 160, 161, 164, 165,
Arnold, Matthew, 25, 11o. 111, 177,
                                                          179, 180.
    189.
                                                      Bramwell, Lord, 250.
Art, sermon on, 258, 341, 342.                        Brazenose, 269.
Arundel Society, 340.                                 Brewer, Professor, 23.
                                                      Bright, John, 258.
Aylesbury, 1, 4, 10.                                  British Association, 106.
Aylesbury Latin School, 4.
                                                      British Monthly, 260, 322, 325.
Bapuji, Appaji, 9.                                    British Museum, 35.
Barnardo, Dr., 247.                                   Brixton, 19.
                                                      Brooks, Phillips, 296, 300, 343.
Bargrave, Dean, 340.                                  Brooks, T. Archd., 303-306.
Baxter, Richard, 265.                                 Brown, Rev. T. R., 15, 76.
Bayard, Mr., ambassador                               Browne, Harold (Bishop of Ely and
                                to Great
   Britain, 300.                 Disraeli,               Winchester), 46, 146.
Beaconsfield, Lord.                                   Browning, Robert, 177, 178, 189, 227,
                       Set

   Benjamin.

Beesly, Professor E. Spencer, 16, 53,

   56, 68-70, 75-77, 126-131.                              287-290.
Bell, Canon   Henry, 56, 145.                         Browning Society, 289.
" Bells and  Pomegranates,"                                    ,56,69,138.
                               review  of,            Bull.-^

    289.                                              Buller, Sir A., 39.
                                                      Burne-Jones, Edward, 145, 222, 341.
Benson, Archbishop, 317, 345, 346.                    Burne-Jones, Philip, 145.
Benson, Mrs., 345.                                    Butler, Dr. H. Montagu, 82, 104, 117,
Bentham, Jeremy, 23.
"BeBrieb,leC, hTahrele, sI,ts56M. eaning and Suprem       120, 123, 124, 135.

   acy," 310.                                         Buzzard, Dr., 350.
                                                      Byron, Lord, 13.

                                                      353
354 INDEX

Cameron, Julia Margaret, 277.             " Darkness and Dawn," 199, 20a
Canterbury Cathedral, 313-319, 327,
                                          Darlington, Mrs., 325.
                                          Darwin, Charles,
    3╗8-                                  " Dean Stanley's       104, 107-110,       258.
Canterbury, Deanery of, 339, 340.                               Life," 261.
                                          "
Cantuarian, The, 323.                     "  Deluge," article on, 112, 113.      108.
Cardew, Mr. Frederic, 117.                   Descent of Man," Darwin's,
Cardew, Lucy Mary. See Farrar, Mrs.
                                          Dicey, Edward, C.B., 29.
   Frederic William.                      Dickens, Charles, 73.
                                          Disraeli, Benjamin (Lord
Carmarthen, 11, 61,                                                              Beacons-

Castleton Bay, 12.                           field), 216-218, 261.

Caxton, William, 226.                     Dixon, Rev. Dr., 10, 76.
" Chapter on Language," 106, 107.
Childs, George W.,                        "  Early Days       of Christianity," 196.
" Christian Doctrine  228, 296, 300.      "                      Polity," Hooker's,    14.
                       of the Atonement   "  Ecclesiastical
                                             Education,"       lecture, 290.
   not inconsistent with the Justice and
   Goodness of God," essay, 47.           Edward, King, 344.
Church Army, 247.                         Edward the Confessor, 221.
Church of England Temperance Soci
                                          Edwards,     Jonathan, 265.
    ety, 250.                             Elliot's "  Horae Apocalypticae,"          25, 47.

Clerkenwell, 21, 31.                      Erasmus,      334.    by Little,"
                                          " Eric, or    Little
Cleveland, President, 300.                                                     1-4,  11,   12,
Close, Dean, 22.
                                          "   14. 15. 33. 41.   71-81.
Cobb,    , 70, 130.                          Essay on the       Origin     of Language,"

Colenso, Bishop (Natal), 113-117.         "   106, 107.         26,   34,  210,  218,      267,
Colenso Defence Fund, 116, 117,
                                             Eternal Hope,"

Coleridge, Mr., 205.                         268, 270, 271, 274, 280, 302, 303, 306,

Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 11, 14, 35,        33░-
                                          Evening Courant, The, 76.
    45. 48, 77. 85, 136, 322.             Examiner, The, 76.

Coliseum, the, 132.                       " Fall of Man, and Other Sermons,"
Congreve, Mr., 126, 163.
"Connection between the Old and

New Testaments," Prideaux's, 14.          "   86, 112,  279.

Contemporary, The, 156.                      Families    of   Speech,"     lectures,       106,

Cooper,  , servant at Dean Farrar's,      "   107.

    118.                                     Farewell   Thoughts           on    America,"

Cooper, Fenimore, 13.                        address, 300.
Cornkill Magazine, 172.                   Farquhar,
Cotton, G. E. L. (Bishop of Calcutta),                        , 132.
                                          Farrar, Rev. Charles Pinhorn, 1, 4, 5.
                                             8-10, 21.
   53-55. 59. 64. 65. 137. 138. 146-
Cranmcr, Archbishop, 11, 61 Ф., 334.      Farrar, Mrs. Charles Pinhorn, 5-7. 21.
Creighton, Bishop, 145.                   Farrar, Cyril Lytton, 144, 145, 229, 230.
Critic, The, 76.                          Farrar, Rev. Eric Maurice, 25, 234,
Cromwellians, 228.
Cuyler, Theo. L., 295, 296.                  248-252, 342, 343.
                                          Farrar, Frederic William, birth, 1 ; sent

Daily Express, The, 76.                      to England, 1 ; trained by his aunts,
Daily News, The, 76, 256.                    1, 2; childhood, 1-4; love of books,
Dale, Canon, 22.
Dante, 285, 322.                             3, 13; sent to school at Aylesbury,
                                             4 ; at King William's College, Isle of
                                             Man, 4, 10; not on intimate terms
       INDEX                                                                                           355

with his father, 5 ; his affection for                         for ordination, 59, 60; his first ser
his mother, 5-8 ; letttr to a Harrow                           mon, 60 ; sketch by one of his pupils,
pupil, 6 ; letters concerning his par                          62; extract from sermon preached

ents, 8,9; vacations at Aylesbury, 10 ;                        at Marlborough, 63-67; lines in
                                                               memory of Dr. Wilkinson, 67;
visits Bishop Short of Sodor and
Man, 10 ; love of nature, 12 ; fond of
                                                               hymn, 68 ; his letters to E. S. Beesly,

walking and swimming, 12, 13, 88;                              68-70, 75-77, 126-131 ; assistant mas
                                                               ter at Harrow, 71-140; as a writer
phenomenal memory, 13, 14 ; sermon
                                                               of schoolboy fiction, 71; pseudonym,
that influenced his character, 14;                             71; "Eric," "Julian Home," "St.
                                                               Winifred's," and "The Three
King William's College destroyed

by fire, 15 ; Professor E. S. Beesly's                         Homes," 71-82; "Eric" compared
reminiscences, 16 ; fond of football,                          with "Tom Brown's School Days,"

18, 89; an example to his school                                                                 to "  Eric,"
                                                                                                 Eric  " and
mates, 18 ; description of, 19, 20 ;                           72 ;      Dr. Magee's tribute
goes to London, 19; at King's Col                              7" 4S;t.  letters referring to "

lege, 21 ; Milton bis model, si ; his                                    Winifred's," 75-81 ; as a teacher,

college reports, 22 ; gains a London                           82-94; sketch by Mr. George Rus

University scholarship, 22; defrays                            sell, 84-86; his interest in natural

expenses of his education, 22, 38;                             history, 84, 88, 139; Walter Leafs

appointed Honorary Fellow of                                   recollections, 92-96; visit to Pales

King's College, 22 ; a Sunday School                           tine, 95, 191, 192; his companions,
teacher, 22; intimacy with F. D.
                                                               95 ; calls on Holman Hunt at Jeru
Maurice and Dr. Plumptre, 22-28 ;                              salem, 95 ; incident of the revolver,
Dr. Hayman and Sir Edwin Ar                                    95; his "Greek Syntax," 96-99;

nold's reminiscences, 26-35; letter                            lecture on education delivered be
from a college friend, 35; "sizar"
                                                               fore the Royal Institution, 99-106;
at Trinity College, Cambridge, 38;                             letters from Charles Darwin, 104,

his poverty and self-denial, 38 ; ob                           107; from Frederic Harrison, 105;

tains  oTf rinsoitcyietyschooflar"shAipp,os3tl8es; ,"me3m9     proposed by Darwin for Fellowship
ber
                                                            ;  of the Royal Society, and elected,

despondent over mathematics, 39;                               107; his views on evolution, 108;
extract from "Julian Home" illus
                                                               preaches sermon at Darwin's funeral,

trating his college life, 41-45; Pro                           109; his friendship with Thomas

fessor Harold Browne and Dr. Mil!,                             Huxley, 11o; Matthew Arnold, 11o,
                                                                             " Seekers
46; prizes and graduation, 47 ; anec                           i11 ; writes  on " The    after         God,"
dotes of Dr. Whewell, 47-49; his                               also sermons             Fall of        Man "
poem on " The Arctic Regions," 48,                             and " The Witness of History to

49, 137; wins Chancellor's gold                                Christ: Hulsean Lectures," 112;

medal, 49, 137 ; letter from William                           appointed Honorary Chaplain to
E. Robinson, 50; Judge Vernon
                                                               thФ Queen, 112; promoted Chap-

Lushington's recollections, 51, 52;                            lain-in-Ordinary, 112; his article on

assistant master at Marlborough                                the "Deluge," 112; his Broad

College, 53-70; colleague of Dr.                               Church views, and Bishop Colenso,
Cotton, Bishop of Calcutta, 53;
                                                               113-117; organises Colenso Defence
sketch by Canon Henry Bell, 56 ;                               Fund, 116; letter from T. W. Jex
devotion of his pupils, 56 ; parody                            Blake, 116, 117; marries Miss Lucy
on one of Horace's Epistles, 57;
Sixth Form, 53-58, 147-171 ; holiday                           Mary Cardew, 117; domestic life, 118,
at Stonehenge, 58 ; goes to Salisbury
                                                               119; his children, 118 ; removal to the

                                                               Park, 118; letters illustrative of the
356 INDEX

Harrow period, 120-140; holiday                                                                     ers in memory of Cazton, 226;

tour to Rome, 132; lines on Hadri                                                                   Jubilee window of Queen Victoria's
                                                                                                    reign, 227; window to Sir Walter
an's villa, 133; visit to Overbeck's
                                                                                                    Raleigh, 227; to Milton, 238; to
"stuMdaior,ria1g3e3,";  lines on  picture called                                                    Admiral Blake, 228 ; the Lloyd win
                                  Dr. Butler's
                           133 ;
recollections, 135-140; founder of                                                                  dow, 229; window in memory of
                                                                                                    Cyril Lytton Farrar, 229; lines for
Natural History Society, 139; his
school sermons at Harrow, 139;                                                                      memorial windows written by Tenny

candidate for head-mastership of                                                                    son, Browning, J. R. Lowell, J. G.

Haileybury, and his defeat, 141 ;                                                                   Whittier, Lewis Morris, Sir Edwin
head-master of          Marlborough,                                                                Arnold, Lord Lytton, and O. W.
190 ; sermons on         " The Silence   141-                                                       Holmes, 226-229; death of Cyril
Voices of God,"         and " In the      and                                                       Lytton Farrar in China, 229, 230;
                                                                                                    his father's grief, 230 ; writes " Me
                                        Days                                                        morials of Cyril Lytton Farrar," 230;
                                                                                                    his eloquence and influence as a
of Thy Youth," 142; home life at
Marlborough, 144, 158, 163 ; Mr. P.
E. Thompson's reminiscences, 145-

159; his appearance, 146, 147; shy                                                                  preacher, 231 ; enormous congrega
                                                                                                    tions, 231, 237; selected to be Chap
ness, 155 ; sketch by Rev. Dr. James,
159-164 ; Professor C. E. Vaughan's                                                                 lain to the House of Commons, 232 ;
recollections, 164-169 ; C. L. Graves's                                                             appointed Archdeacon of Westmin
reminiscences, 169-172; article in
                                                                                                    ster, 233 ; as a parish priest, 234-253 ;
"Cornhill Magazine" by one of his                                                                   his temperance work, 235-252, 294-
                                                                                                    296 ; Bishop Montgomery's recollec
old pupils, 172-181; grandeur of his
manner, 173 ; his reading of Job and                                                                tions, 235-240; sketch by Rev. W.
Isaiah, 174; his voice, 174, 175, 259;                                                              E. Sims, 240-245 ; Rev. W. F. Som-

industry, 175, 176; his advice to his                                                               merville's reminiscences, 245-248;

pupils, 177 ; his friends, 177, 189 ; as                                                            Rev. Eric Farrar's account of his
a disciplinarian, 178; sketch of his                                                                temperance work, 248-252; his first

domestic life, by his daughter, 181-                                                                temperance sermon in Westminster
190 ; his curates, 188, 234 ; " Life of                                                                                "
Christ," 191-197, 202-215; author's                                                                 Abbey, 248 ; his  of  Teacher's   Hymn,"
                                                                                                    252 ; preacher         " Eternal   Hope,"

preface, 191, 192 ; his critics, 194 ; in                                                           254-283 ; ranks among the few great
                                                                                                    pulpit orators, 254 ; criticisms of bis
tense application, 195 ; enormous de                                                                style, 254, 262 ; his use of quotations,
m"19Ea6na-d2rl1yf5or;D"tahyLeisfbeoooof kf C,Sht1.9r6iPsat; iuateln,s"ittiym1,9"o6n-i11a99ls68,
                                                                                                 ;  256, 261; subjects covered by his
                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                    sermons, 258; splendour of his

atrophy of right hand, 196, 197;                                                                    rhetoric, 259 ; opposes ceremonial
pa"rTnehdfaec"e,GLia1fe9th7 e;or"finDgLaivrCeklsno,eu"sdss1,9a"6n,d119D99a7-2w;0n2its";
                                                                                                    ism, 260; Dean Stanley and Lord

                                                                                                    Beaconsfield, 261; repudiates doc

declines crown living of Halifax,                                                                   trine of everlasting torment, 263, 266 ;
                                                                                                    Baxter and Jonathan Edwards, 265 ;
offered by Disraeli, 2i6; accepts                                                                   Dr. Pusey's teachings, 265 ; Charles
                                                                                                    Spurgeon's views, 265, 266 ; descrip
from Disraeli the Canonry of West
                                                                                                    tion of hell, 265, 266; defends his
minster, 217 ; his promotions involve                                                               views against Dr. Pusey's criticisms,
pecuniary loss, 218; reluctance at

leaving Marlborough, 218, 219; be                                                                   268; corresponds with Dr. Pusey,
                                                                                                    270 ; his convictions on the question
comes attached to his new cure,                                                                     of eternal punishment, in his book
                                                                                                    " Mercy and Judgment," 271-274 ;
22o; restores St. Margaret's, 221-

2a6 ; window given by London print
                               INDEX                                                            357

letters occasioned by his sermons            Farrar, Percival, 118.
on " Eternal Hope," 275-283 ; visits         Farrar, Reginald, 126, 135, 349.
Canada and the United States, 284-           Farrar, Robert, Bishop of St. David's,

301; his companions, 284, 297-299;              11,61 H.

received with enthusiasm, 284, 290,          Ferrier, Dr., 350.

297; his eulogy on General Grant,            Field, Cyrus, 296, 300.

284 ; lecture on Dante, 284-287, 298 ;       Fleuss,          , 69.
lecture on Browning, 287 ; Browning
                                             "FoFlkoe'cst'solnee,Ya2rn19s.," 15.
and J. S. Mill, 288, 289; in Balti           Fort of Bombay, 1.

more, 290, 299; preaches in Phila            Fortnightly, Tie, 156.

delphia, 290-294; on American                Forum, The, 132.

audiences, 294; lectures in New              Fowler,

York, on temperance, 294-296;                                 , 131.

meets famous Americans,     "  296, 300 ;    Frances,         , servant at Dean                 Far
annoyed by reporters, 300;
                                Farewell     "   rar's, 118.
                                                Friendship
Thoughts on America," 300, 301 ;                              of Books, The,"          25.
letters from readers of his books,
                                             Frith, Colonel, 189, 320.
302-312 ; Dean of Canterbury, 313-
351; nominated by Lord Rosebery,             Fryer.         , 57.

313; his inaugural sermon, 3^-316;           Garfield, General, 258.
his restoration of the Cathedral, nar        --"GGaraibthaeldriin, g25C8l.ouds," 199.
rated by Rev. Ivor Farrar, 316-318;          Gauron,          -, servant at            Dean     Far
sketch of, by an American, 319, 320;

in touch with municipal life, 320;              rar's, 118.

revives custom of shaking hands,             Gerizim, Mount, 95, 96.
321 ; love of young people, 322-324 ;        Gilmore,
Ivor Farrar's reminiscences, 322;                             , 57.
his favorite poets, 322; teaches
choir boys, 323; letters to his              Gladstone, 251.
                                             Goethe, 33.
daughter, 324, 342, 343; sketch by           Goldsmith, 13.
Canon Page Roberts, 325-331 ; ex             Goschen, Mr., 251.
tract from Canon Mason's memorial            Goulburn, Dean, 263.
                                             Grant, General, 258, 284.
sermon, 331-336; Hon. Mrs. J. S.                            C. L., 169-172.
                                             "GrGarveeesk,  Card," 92, 96.
Northcote's recollections, 336-339;          " Greek        Syntax," 92, 96.
the Deanery of Canterbury, 339, 340 ;
his love of sacred art, 340, 341;            Griffiths, Mr., 106.

illustrious guests at the Deanery, Grove, Sir G., 106.

344-346; increasing atrophy of

muscles, 346; his patience and               Hales, Professor, 105.                    (Bishop    of
                                             Hall, Rev. Newman, 295.
cheerfulness, 347, 348; not allowed          Hal lam, Arthur, 39.
to resign, 347 ; carried in a chair to       Hamilton, Walter Ker
the Cathedral, 347; letters of sym

   pathy, 348; death, 351.                      Salisbury), 59.
Farrar, Mrs. Frederic William, 117,          Hammond, J. L., 47.
                                             Hanbury,         , 69, 13a
    158, 164, 168, 187, 233, 239, 342, 343,
                                             Harris, Mr., 120, 138.
    348.                                     Harrison, Frederic, 105.
                                             Harrow, 71-140.
Farrar, Henry, 1, 4, 22.                     Harrow Natural History Society,
Farrar, Rev. Ivor, 118, 316, 322, 343.                                                       84.
Farrar, Lilian, 324, 342, 343.
358 INDEX

Hart, F. T., 39.                                          King, W. Scott, 260.
Hawkins,                                                  King's College, 21-35.
                     , 70.                                King's College Magazine, 39.
Hayman, Dr., 26.                                          King's School, 322-324, 329, 332, 351.
                                                          Kipling, Rudyard, 72.
Heber, Reginald, 49, 185.
"MeHgisatno, ryColaonndel,
                            321.      of   a     Public   " Language and Languages," 107.

                            Hopes

   School," sermon, 63.                                   L" aLnasrdkowannde,thLeorCda, bb23a.ge, The," 40.
Holland, Sir Henry, 103.                                  Lawson, Sir Wilfrid,
Holmes, Oliver Wendell, 229, 296.                                                       250,  295.
Holte, Mrs. Orford, 145.                                  Leaf, Charles J., 205.
Holy Land, 95.                                            Leaf, Walter, 92, 192.
Hood, Thomas, 260.

Hooker, Sir Joseph, 84,               109.                Leeds, 79.
Hooker's " Ecclesiastical                                 Lees and Raper Memorial Lecture,
                                       Polity,"  14.
            F. T. L., pseudonym,
"HoHpoep,e   in Christ," sermon,            71.              250.
                                          86.             Lensman, Ben-Zion, 307.

Houghton, Lord, 39, 105.                                  "LiLdidfeona, nd      , 254.
Hubert,         , i2i.                                                                  St. Paul"
                                                                            Work of                  2io.
Hughes, Judge Thomas, 145, 189.                           " Life of Christ," 8,          34, 156,
Hulsean Lectures, 9, 112, 193, 256.                                                                 163,     175.
Hunt, Holman, 95, 189.
Huxley, Thomas Henry, 102, 106, 108-                      "   191-215, 302, 307, 333.               in Art,"
                                                             Life of Christ represented

   111, 139.                                                  210,  341.
                                                                    of Lives," 196, 197, 346.
" Ideal Citizen, The," sermon, 258.                       " Life    of St. Paul," 196, 197, 198,      302.
                                                          " Life

Ilbert,             , 69, 127, 129.                       Lightfoot,        Bishop, 148,   194.
" In the                                                  " Lives of        the Fathers,"    199.
                Days of Thy Youth,"
                                           sermons,       Llanfairfechan, North Wales, 337.

"   63, 142, 143.                                         Lloyd memorial window, 229.
                                                          Lockyer, E. Normand, 145.
   Individual Responsibility,"             250.

Ingelow, Jean, 189.                                       Lomonosoff, A., 208, 209.
Ingelow, William F., 95, 96, 192, 284.                    London University, 22, 27.
Isaiah, Book of, 174.                                     Lowell, James Russell, 109, 337, 296.
Isle of Man,                                              Lubbock, Sir John, 109, 258.
" Ivanhoe,"      3,  4,     11,  13,  71, 73.
                4.
                                                          Lucas, Mr., 144.
                                                          Lushington, Judge Vernon, 51, 52.
James, Rev.      Dr., 159,             Ф.                 Lytton, Lord, 229.
Jelf. Dr. R.    W., 22-24.       163

Jerusalem, 95.'                                           Macaulay, Lord, 14, 49.
Job, Book of,                                             McVickar, Rev. Dr., 300.
" John Bull,"    174        ;  sermon     on, 238.        Magee, Dr. (Bishop of Peterborough) ,

                Ф8i.

Johns Hopkins University, 299.                               74.254.
Journol of Education, 157.                                Maine, Sir Henry, 39.
"JoJwuelitatn,  Dr., 116, 288.                            Mallock,                            <и╗.*.
                Home," 35, 38,                                              , 267.
                                                          Margoliouth, Professor, 197, 198.
                                 41-46,    71,   78, 83.

Juvenal, 37.                                              Marlborough College, 53-68, 141-190.
                                                          Marliurian, The, 159, 164.
                                                          Marryat, Captain, 13.
Keats, John, 35, 132.                                     Mason, Canon, 325, 331.
King Edward's School, 322.                                Matveieo, Theodor, 309, 210.
King William's College, 4, 10, 15-19.
                                              INDEX                                                                                                               359

Maurice, Frederick Denison, 22, 23-28,                                                                        " Paradise  Lost," 4.
                                                                                                              " Paradise  Regained," 21.
  39. 136. ML MS, 173. *77. 334-
Maxwell, Professor J. Clerk, 39.                                                                              Parker, Archbishop, 345.
May,                                                                                                          Parker, C. S., M.P., 105.
              , 228.

Mayor,        , 129.                                                                                          Patteson, Bishop Coleridge, 163.

Melville, Canon,       22.    Lytton    Farrar,"                                                              Payne-Smith, Dean,        313, 316.        35.
" Memorials of                                                                                                " Pearson upon the
                      Cyril                                                                                                            Creed," 31,

"   144,230.   Known,"                                                                                        Percival, Dr., 157.
                                                                                                              Perowne, Dr. (Bishop of Worcester),
   Men I Have                 22,  46,  103,  11o,

"   226, 287, 296.            210,      268,  271,                                                            "  "3-            of   the  Inductive               Sci

   Mercy and Judgment,"                                                                                          Philosophy

    279.                                                                                                         ences," 47.
                                                                                                              Plumptre, E. H. (Dean of Wells), 22,
Mill, John Stuart, 264, 289.
Mill, Professor, 46.                                                                                             23, 212-214.                            between  the
Millais, Everett, 145.                                                                                        Pole, Cardinal, 346.
Millais, Sir John Everett, 145, 189.                                                                          PPrraideed,auMx'asck"wCoornthn,ec4t9io. n
Milton, John, 4, 21, 44, 45, 85, 88, 138,

   173. 32*-                                                                                                     Old and New Testaments,"                14.
Minton, Sir Samuel, 281.                                                                                      " Primer," the Latin, 98, 99.
                                                                                                              Pusey, Dr., 265, 268, 270.
Monk, General, 224.                                                                                           Pym, John, 228.
Monro, Cecil, 127.
Montgomery, Bishop, 234-240.
Moore, Thomas, 13.                                                                                            Quiver, The, 71.                           use of, 256-
Morning Advertiser, The, 90.                                                                                  Quotations, Dr. Farrar's
Morris, Sir Lewis, 222, 229.
Mount Gerizim, 95, 96.                                                                                            258.

MUller, Max,  107,     141, 148,                                                                              Raleigh, Sir Walter, 227, 258.
Myer"s poem                        231.                                                                       Reid, Dr., 348,
              of "    St. Paul,"   93.                                                                        " Reminiscences   350.   Bishop            Colenso,"

                                                                                                                                   of

Nana,         , servant at Dean Farrar's,                                                                     "   113-117.          ef Lord Tennyson,"
                                                                                                                 Reminiscences
    118.
                                                                                                                  49-
"""NaNNNsaaaitttkiii,ooonnnIn'aasdll iCaDPu,eurrst1ieil,es, s8,",,A"9s,."seermsrmeoronmn,o, n2,255828. 5. 0.
Newman, Cardinal, 258, 262.                                                                                   Renan, Ernest, 106, 212.
Newquay, Cornwall, 337.
                                                                                                              Kendall,       , 138.
Nineteenth Century, The, 250, 266.
Morris, Leslie, 145.                                                                                          Ritchie, Mr., 251.
                                                                                                              Roberts, Canon Page, 325.
Northcote, Hon. Mrs. J. S., 325, 336.                                                                         Robinson, WJUiam E., 50.

                                                                                                              Rome, 132.
                                                                                                              Rosebery, Lord, 313, 326.
                                                                                                              Rowsell, Canon, 145.
                                                                                                              Royal Normal College, 247.
" On Some Defects in Public School                                                                            Ruskin, John, 85, 139, 177.

    Education," lecture, 99-106.                                                                              Russell, George, 84.
   Origin of Language," 107.
"                                                                                                             " Sacrifice of Iphigenia, The," 30.
                                                                                                              Safed, 95, 96.
Overbeck, Friedrich, 133.                                                                                     St. David's, 11, 61 n.
                                                                                                              St. James, Clerkenwell, 21.
Oxenham,              , 128.                                                                                  St Margaret's, Westminster, 217-233,

Palestine, 95, 191.                                                                                              236 et sea.
Palmer, Professor, 32a
3<5o INDEX

St. Mary's Church, Cambridge, 89.                          Sterling,   , 39.
"St. Winifred's, or the World of
                                                           Stevenson, Dr., 247.
   School," 14, 15, 71, 72, 73, 79, 81, 83.
Salisbury, 59.                                             Stonehenge, 58.
Salisbury Infirmary, 60.                                   Storr, F., 145.

                                                           Strode,     , 228.

Salvation Army, 247.                                       Sunday School Times, Amer.. 319.
Saturday Review, The, 77.                                  Swanage, Dorsetshire, 337.
Scott, Edward Ashley, 53, 56, 69, 129.                     Swanston, Clement Tudway, 29.
Scott, Sir Gilbert, 238.
Scott, Sir Walter, 4, 13, 199.                              Tail's Magazine, 289.
                                                           Taylor, Jeremy, 162.
Sedgwick,           Professor, 105.  210,  306.            Teacher's Hymn, 252.
" Seekers          after God," 112,                        Temperance League, 250.
                                                           Temperance work of Dr. Farrar, 248-
Seeley, Professor, 105.
Sellick, Mr., 150.
"Shadow of Civilization, The," 250.                           252, 294-296.
                                                           Temple, Archbishop, 116, 250, 329, 345,
Shakespeare, 32, 143.
                                                               346, 347-
Shannon, Rev. John Reid, 259.
Shelley, Percy Bysshe, 13, 35, 132.                        Temple Magazine, 39.
Shenstone, William, 54.                                    Tennyson, Hallam, 145.
Short, Bishop (Sodor and Man) , 10, 11.                    Tennyson, Lord, 5, 39, 49, 50, 71, 177,
Short, Mrs., 10, 11.
                                                           178, 189, 227, 322, 343, 344.
Shrewsbury School,                                         Theobald,
" Silence and Voices          80,    104.                                            , 70, 120.

                              of    God,"  sermons,        Thomas, Rev. John Shearm, 142, 148,

    142,306.                                               156.
                                                           Thomas, Mrs. J. S., 181-190. 339.
Simon   E,Langton Schools, 322.
Sims,   Rev. W.      234, 240-245.                         Thompson, Sir             HPe. nEry,,   145.
                                                           Thompson, Mr.                          39, 145-159.
S" mSmithit,hA'sssDheicttoino,na1r5y7.of the Bible," 112.  " Three Homes,             The,"
                                                                                                  71.
                                                           T" hTriirnngb,ucDtor.o, ,"84.49, 50.
Smyth, Professor, 49.                                      Tivoli, 132, 133.
"Social   Amelioration," sermon, 258.
" Social  and Present Day Questions,"                                                Leo, 258.
                                                                                     School Days,"
    258, 341-                                              "ToTlosmtoy,BrCoowunn'st                   72.

Sodor and Man, 10, 11.                                     Tomkinson,

Somerset, Protector, 221.                                                            , 56, 129.

Sommerville, Rev. W. F., 234, 245-248.                     Trench, Archbishop, 39.
                                                           Trinity College, Cambridge, 38-52, 71.
Spectator, The, 76.                                        Turner,
Spencer, Herbert, 106.
Spottiswoode, W., 103, 109, 116.                                       , 69.         See Farrar, Mrs,
                                                           Turner, Caroline.

"SpSutraglekoyn,&  Charles,   265,  333.                   Charles Pinhorn.
                   Co.," 72,  74.                          Turner, Joseph Mallord William, 34a.

Stanhope, Spencer, 222.                                    Tyndall, John, 103, 106, 139.
Stanley, Arthur Penrhyn (Dean of
                                                           United Kingdom Alliance, 250.
   Westminster), 177, 189,258,261, 284,

    296, 326.                                              Vanderbilt, Mr. C,
Stanley, Lady Augusta, 296.
                                                           Vaughan, Professor        300.         E,
Steel,     , 138.                                                                                     164-169.
                                                                                     C.
                                                           Vaughan, Charles T. (Dean of Llan-
Steel, A. G., 172.                                         daff), 71, 122, 123, 130, 138, 147, 202,
Stephen, Sir J. Fitzjames, 39.
Stephen, Leslie, 264.                                      203, 214, 215, 220, 230.

\V
                            INDEX                                            36i

Vaughan, Mrs. C. T., 202.                  Wellesley, Dean, 217.
Vesey, Archdeacon, 131, 216-219, 233,      Westcott, B. F. (Bishop of Durham),

284, 297-300.                                  92, 122, 138, 194, 277, 278.
Vesey, Mrs., 298.
Voltaire, 238.                             Whewell, Dr., 47-49, 85, 137.
                                           Whittier, John G., 228, 296.
Volunteers,     247.        The," sermon,  Wilberforce, Archdeacon, 22, 250.
" Vow of     the Nazarite,                 Wilkinson, Dr. M. M,, 64, 67, 159,

250.                                       Wilson, Archdeacon, 105, 106.

Wales, Prince and Princess of, 344.        Wiltshire College, 53.
Wallace, A. R., 109.                       Winthrop,  Miss, 3^-1
                                           " Witness  of History   to  Christ," ser

Warren,         , 69, 127.                    mons, 112, 256.
                                           Wordsworth, William, 13, 45, 85.
Watson, H. W., 127, 138.
Watts, Dr., 275.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 107.                  Zelic, John Sheridan, 320.
      mmm

 A FINE IS INCURRED IF THIS BOOK IS
 NOT RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON
 OR BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED
  BELOW.

C

Mil&fc H

                   /
I> *

                                      . 1*--

                                              ╗K "  

                                                       

                                                      
                                                           I t

