AN

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

                                          BY

        HERBERT SPENCER

                             ILLUSTRATED

                      IN TWO VOLUMES

                           VOL. I

                     NEW YORK
     D. APPLETON AND COMPANY

                                    1904

                                 Copyright, 1904, by
                   D. APPLETON AND COMPANY

Published April, /90J

        NOTE BY THE TRUSTEES.

  This Autobiography is published as it was left by Mr. Spencer,

with a few modifications, the most important of which relates to the

division of the volumes. It was Mr. Spencer's original intention
that the first volume should end with Chapter XlXa. His reason

was thus stated in a letter to his American publishers : " The first
volume ends my engineering and miscellaneous life, and the second
volume begins my literary life." This, he said, was a " natural
division." But in order to obviate the very great inequality in
thickness that would have thus existed between the two volumes,
we, his trustees, in the exercise of our discretion, have ventured to
adopt another " natural division," making the first volume end
with the termination of his miscellaneous work and the second
volume begin with the planning of the Synthetic Philosophy.

   The illustrations for Part I. having been of somewhat inferior
execution, improved blocks have been prepared, from which the
portraits have been printed. A sentence on page 118 referring to
a photograph of Hinton Parsonage, taken from a drawing made by
Mr. Spencer when a boy, has been omitted because the photograph
could not be found. Some renumbering of Parts and Chapters,
repagination, and a few necessary verbal corrections are the only

other changes that have been made.

                                                          V

                 NOTE BY THE TRUSTEES

manufactured in the United States the royalty paid by Messrs.

Appleton was ten per cent, instead of fifteen per cent. It
   a                                                                                              how
                                                a

                                                               by
                                                                                             is,
ever, well worthy of note that over long series of years, from i860

onwards, royalty payment was made    Messrs. Appleton to

Mr. Spencer, although he had no legal protection for his writings

in the United States.                Auberon Herbert,

                                     H. Charlton Bastian,

                                     David Duncan.

       feel in signing this note, drawn up by my co-trustees, uponI
whom the whole trouble of making the arrangements has fallen --
                                               in
trouble in which have not been able to share, owing to my absenceI
in Egypt -- that personally should have been in favor of dividingI
the volume, which over large, into two parts, and thus conformingisI

more nearly to Mr. Spencer's wish. But at the same time feelI Ia

that my colleagues know all the circumstances of the case, both

past and present, far better thanI   know them; and  am quite

ready to believe that they may have judged more truly than myself

as regards what Mr. Spencer would have wished  the matter.

regret very much the additional trouble that my absence has en

tailed on them.                      Auberon Herbert.

Post Office, Cairo,           (Sgd)

   March         3,    1904.

                              VI

                      PREFACE.

  It has seemed to me that a natural history of myself

would be a useful accompaniment to the books which it

has been the chief occupation of my life to write. In the

following chapters I have attempted to give such a
natural history. That I have fully succeeded is not to be
supposed ; but perhaps I have succeeded partially. At any

rate, one significant truth has been made clear -- that in
the genesis of a system of thought the emotional nature
is a large factor: perhaps as large a factor as the intel

lectual nature.
    Some peculiarities in the instruction given to me ought

not to pass without remark. That neither in boyhood nor

youth did I receive a single lesson in English, and that I

have remained entirely without formal knowledge of
syntax down to the present hour, are facts which should
be known ; since their implications are at variance with
assumptions universally accepted. And there should be
noted other large omissions, as well as considerable ad
ditions, which gave to my education a character unlike
that of the ordinary education.

    Further, some advantage is likely to result from pre
senting in their order of genesis the evolutionary ideas set
 forth in my works ; beginning with certain vague adum
brations of them dating back to 1842 and 1844, passing
on to the definite germs which made their appearance in

                                          vii

PREFACE

1850, and showing the successive stages through which

the developed form of the Doctrine of Evolution was

reached in 1869. Apart from such interest as this piece
of mental history has, the delineation of it will, perhaps,

yield aids to the readers of The Synthetic Philosophy. The

ultimate product may be rendered more comprehensible

by contemplation of its growth.

Before proceeding with this volume, the reader should

glance at the Note which follows. After learning from

it how irregular has been the order in which the different

parts of the work have been written, he will not be sur

prised by certain small repetitions, and possibly other

anomalies, with which he will meet.

                                      H. S.

64, Avenue Road,
         Regent's Park, London,

                 2 yt/i April, 1894.

vill

                         NOTE.

                         (Of an Earlier Date. Probably 1889.)

   When, in 1886, my health, failing for some years be
fore, became such that work involving any mental strain
proved impracticable ; and when, to partially fill the
hours otherwise wholly vacant, a small amount of occupa

tion appeared desirable; I bethought me of certain bio

graphical memoranda set down in previous years, and
gradually fell into the habit of passing a little time daily
in putting these into shape.

    Where to begin was a question which presented itself.

Thinking it probable that I should not survive to write
the whole, I decided to write first the portions of chief

importance. Though some incidents of the years passed
as a civil engineer might not prove wholly uninteresting,
yet, manifestly, the chief interest felt, whatever it may
amount to, in an account of my life must centre in that
part of it which narrates my career as an author. Hence,

after the division devoted to early life and education, I

passed at once to later divisions in the order of their rela

tive importance : first Part VII, then Parts V and VI,
and then Parts VIII, IX, X and XI.

   As the work advanced I became conscious that' a con

stitutional lack of reticence is displayed throughout
to an extent which renders present publication undesir
able. In years to come, when shall be no longer con
scious, the frankness with which the book written may

                                           ix
I

                       is
                                          it,

                        NOTE

add to whatever value it has; but while I am alive it
would, I think, be out of taste to address the public as

though it consisted of personal friends.

Meanwhile, for the use of personal friends, or such of

them as care to read    ; iIt,  have had the volumes printed.

To take finished impression from the stereo-plates was
a
      a
needful as precaution since fire at the printer's
                                  a
                                           a
would, otherwise, leave me without                 copy containing

the final corrections. Instead of taking one impression,

decided to take half-a-dozen so that select few might
I                               ;

             is                                 a
                    a

                    if
see the book they wished.

It provoking necessity that an autobiography

should be egotistic. A biography  is  inevitably defective

as lacking facts of importance, and still more as giving

imperfect or untrue interpretations of those facts which                 it

contains and an autobiography, by exhibiting its writer
;

                            a
                                                              is
as continually talking about himself,                             defective as

making very salient trait which may not perhaps be

stronger than usual. The reader has to discount the

impression produced as well as he can.

                                                                  H. S.

         CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

         FAMILY-ANTECEDENTS..

I. Extraction                                   PAGE

                                                    3

II. Grandparents and their Children . . 15

III. Parents                                    48

               PART I.

CHAPTER                            1820-1837.     71
                                                  79
     I.  Childhood                              102
         Boyhood                                113
   II.                                          134
  III.   A Journey and a Flight
* IV.    Youth at Hinton                        145
         A False Start                          158
    V.                                          178
                                                196
               PART II.

  VI.                               1837-1841.
VII.
VIII.    Commence Engineering
  IX.
         Life at Worcester
         Some Months at Powick
         A Nomadic Period

                     CONTENTS

                     PART III.

CHAPTER                         1841-1844.          PAGE

     X.  Return to Derby                            215

XI. A Visit and its Consequences . . . 233

XII. Back at Home                                   244

XIII. A Campaign in London                          258

XIV. At Home Again                                  274

                     PART IV.

   XV.                          1844-1848.  ...; .  287
  XVI.                                              294
XVII.    A Brief Sub-Editorship                     312
XVIII.   A Parliamentary Survey                     325
  XIX.                                              346
XlXa.    An Interval in Town                        370

         Another Parliamentary Survey       ..

         Inventions

         Suspense                           ,.

                     PART V.

   XX.                          1848-1853.          391
                                                    406
  XXI.   Begin Journalism                           425
 XXII.   My First Book                              448
                                                    474
XXIII.   An Idle Year
XXIV.    A More Active Year

         Leave The Economist

                                    xii

                CONTENTS

                PART VI.

     CHAPTER                       1853-1856.       PAGE

   XXV.       ....Two Months' Holiday .             495
                                                    S°S
  XXVI.       Writing for Quarterly Reviews         529
 XXVII.                                             553
XXVIII.       My Second Book                        582
  XXIX.       Eighteen Months Lost
              Some Significant Essays

....A. Skew Arches
                APPENDICES.

                                               . . 603

B. A Geometrical Theorem                            606

C. Velocimeter                                      609

L). Scale of Equivalents                            613

E. Ideas about a Universal Language . . . 617

F. Remarks on the Theory of Reciprocal De
              pendence in the Animal and Vegetable

              Creations, as regards its Bearing
....H. On a Proposed Cephalograph
              upon Palaeontology                    624
G. Levelling Appliances                             631
              ....and Unbound Publications
                                                    634

I. Registered Binding-pins, for Securing Music

    The Form of the Earth no Proof of Origi         639
          nal Fluidity
J.

                                                    641

K. Letter to The Athen&um Concerning the
              Misstatements of the Rev. T. Mozley . 645

                          xni


PORTRAITS IN VOLUME I

Herbert Spencer at thirty-eight                                FACING
Jane Holmes, ne'e Brettell .                                      PACK
Catherine Spencer, nJe Taylor
Thomas Spencer                          Frontispiece
Bust of Thomas Spencer .                                       IS
William George Spencer at twenty-eight
William George Spencer in later life                                   22
Harriet Spencer, ne'e Holmes
Harriet Spencer in later life                                          28

                                                                       32
                                                                  60
                                                                  62

                                                                  64
                                                                  66

XV


FAMILY-ANTECEDENTS.

  I. Extraction.   and their Children.
 II. Grandparents
III. Parents.


                      I. EXTRACTION.

   Most persons recognize the vanity of genealogies

which, singling out one ancestor, perhaps quite remote,

ignore all those other ancestors --8, 16, 32, 64, according
to the distance back -- whose shares in forefatherhood

are equally great. But there are genealogies for which
something is to be said. Among men, as among inferior
creatures, there occasionally arise individual constitu
tions of great persistence, which impress themselves on
many generations of posterity ; and in such cases a state
ment of extraction may not be uninstructive. Other
cases there are in which, through many generations may
be traced, not the traits of some one marked individual,
but family-traits which have been common to several
lines of ancestry, and have hence become well-established
in descendants common to them all. In my own case
there are certain ancestral traits of this kind which are
not without significance. Those ancestors concerning
whom not much is to be said, may first be named.

   I know little about the line of my grandmother on the

paternal side, further than that the family, named Taylor,
was of the lower middle class, and was resident in Derby.

   Nor have I anything definite to say respecting the

extraction of my mother's father, whose name was

Holmes--a name which may have had a topographical

origin, for there or was, tract of pasture bordering
the Derwent, called " the Holmes." But there seems some
probability of connexion which have been unable to
a
      is,

                         3a

                      I

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

establish. In a diary kept by my mother during her girl
hood, there are mentions of visits to the Holmeses of
Brailsford, a village eight miles from Derby. These
Holmeses seem to have been, and are still, small land
owners, farming their own land. Inquiries made some
dozen years ago failed to show any relationship. Yet it

seems unlikely that there should have been interchanges
of visits between families residing near one another and
of the same name, who were unrelated.

   Probably I might have gathered more about these lives
of ancestors had I in early life been curious in such
matters. Or had our family been prone to gossip, some

knowledge of byegone Taylors and Holmeses might have
been unawares conveyed to me.

  A good deal may be set down concerning the line of my
maternal grandmother. The name was Brettell --a name
which I find otherwise spelt Brettyl, Brethull, Brettal,
Brettle, Brittle. In the Herald and Genealogist, vol. I,
pp. 421-6, Mr. Sidney Grazebrook, himself a descendant

of the family, gives some account of it : having first indi
cated the foreign origin of neighbours named Henzey,
with whom the Brettells intermarried.

   " Towards the end of the 1 6th century Thomas and Bal
thazar de Hennezel [naturalized Henzey], dwelling near the
Vosges in Lorraine, with their near relatives Tyttery and
Tyzach, all Huguenots . . . emigrated to this country,"
and some of them settled in ' the neighbourhood of Stour
bridge.' * * *

   " The genealogy of the Henzey, or de Hennezel, family is
given in De la Chenaye Desbois, in his Dictionnaire de la
Noblesse, from which it appears that it was of noble Bohe
mian origin." * * *

                                                    4

                         EXTRACTION

" Ananias Henzell (naturalized Henzey) ' de la maison de
Henzel, tout pre la village de Darnell en la pie de Lorraine '
                 "
born in  1570       had  a son  Joshua  who married  a  Joan  Brettell.

Concerning the Brettells he goes on to say :--

" This family would also appear to be of French descent.

Indeed it is traditionally derived from the de Breteuils, of

Normandy. But it was established in the neighbourhood of

Stourbridge (where now the name is extremely common) at

the commencement of the 16th century, if not earlier. [It
was there in the time of Henry VI.]

   " In the year 1617 John Brettell and Mary Henzeye were
married at Oldswinford, and it has been seen that Joshua
Henzey married a lady of the same name. These intermar

riages would almost lead one to imagine that the Brettells

were also refugees ; yet the year we find Roger at Bromsley

was prior to any of the great persecutions."
   " There are two distinct families of Brettell in this neigh

bourhood, no doubt of common origin, but not known to be

related : the Brettells of Dudley and Brettell Lane and that

of which I am about to treat."*

The family of which Mr. Grazebrook then proceeds to

         by implication, that which was located in Old
treat  is is,

                                   ;

                                                       5

                                                                                         ;

                                                                                    is
                                                                                           is is

                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                                             a
swinford parish, or otherwise in the better known place,

Stourbridge, which has grown up within it. The Old

swinford register records the marriage of Joshua Henzell

with Joan Brettell, and, as above implied, the register

also shows the marriage of John Brettell with Mary

* That these two names are of foreign derivation,       a conclusion con

firmed by the fact that they have undergone on the Continent contrac

tions like those which they have undergone here. The name Bretel now

exists in Normandy and in Switzerland, as well as in France, the name

Henzi found. Curiously enough, the first of the two used to dis

tinguish railway-stations both in France and England. There                                                                                     sta

tion at Breteuil on the Northern of France and there the Brettell-

Lane station between Dudley and Stourbridge.

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Henzey in 1617. Further, about 1740, there was a mar
riage of Thomas Brettell to Sarah Henzey, as shown by
the registry of their son's birth shortly after ; and then,
on June 15, 1740, is registered the marriage of Joseph
and Elizabeth Brettell, my great-grandfather and great-
grandmother : Joseph and Thomas being not improbably

brothers. The question is-- Were these Brettells who
married in 1740 descendants of the John Brettell and

Mary Henzey who married in 1617? From the fact that
in the reign of Elizabeth Old Swinford contained a hun
dred families, we may infer that in 1617 its population
was not more than 600; and it is a reasonable estimate

that between that time and 1740, it did not increase to
more than 2000 : the growth of its numbers up to 5000 at
the beginning of this century being doubtless mainly due
to its manufacturing activity. But in a place with a popu
lation growing during 120 years from 600 to 2000 there
could hardly have been more than one clan of Brettells.
Hence the inference that Joseph Brettell, living in the
18th century, was a descendant of John Brettell living in

the 17th century, becomes very probable. If this infer

ence be accepted, then it follows that my great-grand
father and his children inherited from the Henzeys a dash

of Huguenot blood. A further inference may be drawn
as not improbable. In the French genealogical dictionary

above quoted, published in the middle of this century, it
is stated that these de Hennezels, coming from Bohemia,
had been settled in Lorraine about four centuries. This
takes us back to the middle of the 15th century. Now
the Hussite wars lasted from about 1420 to 1436, and the
persecutions, doubtless continued after the subjugation of
the Hussites, were such that the movement had ended

                                               6

                             EXTRACTION

de Hennezels, who came from Bohemia about 1450, were
refugee Hussites? In the absence of another natural
cause for their migration into Lorraine at that date, we

may rationally assume that sectarian animosity was the

cause. If so, it follows that in one line of ancestors of

these Brettells, there have twice been resistances to re

ligious authority, and flight in preference to submission.*

  If any ingrained nonconformity of nature is to be hence

inferred, it may have gone some way to account for that

nonconformity which, however derived, was displayed by
the children of my great-grandfather Brettell. For, apart

from this probable genealogy, there stands the significant

fact that out of a family of seven, five were among the

earliest Wesleyans (of whom my maternal grandmother

was one), and two of these were among the earliest
Wesleyan preachers --John Brettell and Jeremiah Bret-
                                           and 1753. Of these
tell, born respectively       in 1742       inquiries I discovered that  the
   * In the course of these
                             genealogical                                 my

great-grandmother's maiden surname was Hemus. The name struck

me as odd, and decidedly un-English : prempting me to make inquiries

respecting its existence elsewhere. Examination proved that it is not

to be found in the London Directory ; and as, in so large a city, recruited

from all parts of the kingdom, the name does not occur, its scarcity is

manifest. It turns out, however, that there are persons of the name in

Birmingham, which is but 12 miles from Stourbridge : a fact congruous

with the supposition that Stourbridge was its centre of diffusion. Hence

there arose a suspicion that in this group of Huguenot immigrants, Hen-

nezel, Tyttery and Tyzack, there may have been another named Hemus.
From Mr. Joseph Ulehla, who translated one of my works into the

Bohemian language, I gather that there exist names allied to it in Bohe

mia. The one approaching most closely is Hemis (pronounced Hemish).
Now between Hemis and Hemus there is a divergence much smaller

than many familiar divergencies in names ; and hence it is a reasonable

supposition that Hemus was in Bohemian Hemis. But why Bohemian?

Well, if one of the Hussite refugees who fled with the rest into Lorraine,

was named Hemis, and if one of the Huguenot refugees who, during

the later religious persecutions, migrated to England was a descendant

of his, who joined the other descendants of the Hussites, then it seems

                             7

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

youngest, Jeremiah, seems to have been somewhat inti
mately associated with John Wesley, who spoke approv
ingly of his work; and at one time he was appointed to
the Epworth circuit: Epworth being Wesley's native

place. Of John Brettell there exists, in the Arminian

Magazine for 1796, a brief biography written by his
brother ; and there is a portrait of him in the same period
ical for March 1784. Jeremiah, of whom there is a por
trait in the Arminian Magazine for February 1784, and
another in the Wesleyan Methodist Magazine for August
1823, and a third in the Methodist Magazine about 1796,
wrote a memoir of himself, which was published after his

death in the Wesleyan Methodist Magazine for October

1830.

      As in those days, when Wesley and his followers

were persecuted, it required both pronounced convictions
and considerable courage to dissent from the established

possible, or even probable, that this great-grandmother Hemus had a

genealogy in this respect like the others.
   Further inquiries, made since the above paragraph was put in type,

have yielded verifying evidence. One of the six Hemuses residing in

Birmingham says all the others are his cousins or second cousins, and

further says that his father was a farmer at Hanbury near Droitwich,

which is but 13 miles from Stourbridge. Seven of the name are in the
Worcestershire Directory, and to my questions one of these has referred

to a cousin in Birmingham, while another says that all the Worcestershire

Hemuses seem to be connected, and that until lately the name was lim

ited to the county: facts implying recent divergence from a common

root. But perhaps the most significant discovery is that one member of

the family possesses an ancient sword (or hunting-knife thirty inches
long) on the blade of which is engraved one of the hunting rhymes

"much used by the Germans," says a German professor, who also says

that weapons of the kind "were much used in the forests of Bohemia

and Germany." The vicar of Stoulton, where one branch of the family
                                             " Farmer " Hemus that:
since 1748, says of a recently
                                             a very interesting sur
 to say "Ch oonder,' for
'Ih"ashelivuesedd               deceased
                                wonder,'
vival in modern days of the old ic-ich-I. "

8

                                EXTRACTION

creed, and disregard the authority upholding        a                      there

must have been in these two men more than usual indi   a
                                                               is
viduality of character.*
                                                                    s it,
Concerning the genealogy of the Spencers, the question

of chief interest whether any connexion exists between
                I

                        is

                                ;

                                            is

                                     I
the Spencers of Derbyshire and the Spencers of

Northamptonshire              for, of course, were there proof of

common origin with the poet, should gladly give it.

But, so far as know, there no such proof. The spelling

of the name presents no bar to the supposition of kinship                   a;

for, in early days, modes of spelling were unsettled. Of

this, curious proof afforded in the present case on trac
                      is

ing back the Spencer-ancestry to the middle of the 17th

century. At that time, apparently by                clerical error

(probably in double sense), the spelling of the name
                   a

was changed in the register of baptisms of the same

family: the father's name being spelt with an in the

entry of the baptism of his son Anthony in 1657, and with

a     in the entry of the baptism of his son William in 1659.
   c

The spelling with     is        was thereafter uniformly used.
                         a
                             c
   * Further evidence of constitutional nonconformity among members
of the Hrettell clan, worth adding. In the account of the Wesleyan

preacher, John  Brettell, given in  the Arminian    Magasinc for 1796 by
his brother,      said that he was  " converted by    local preacher named
      it
Brettell." If we infer, as before, that there was probably but one clanis
              a
of Brettells in Stourbridge,      seems most likely that this Brettell was
                      is
distant relative -- common descendant of the John Brettell who marriedit
a Henzey in 1617. Another example exists. In the Dictionary of Na

tional Biography there an account of Jacob Brettell. a Unitarian mina

ister, who died in 1862, whose father, Jacob Brettell, having first become,

at the age of 17, a Calvinistic preacher, afterwards became an Independ

ent minister, and ultimately renouncing Calvinism, opened a separate
meeting-house. His father -- that       the grandfather of the first named --
                                    9 is
was an Independent minister at Wolverhampton, which only ten miles

from Stourbridge.

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

   The name Spencer is by no means uncommon in North
Derbyshire, and is prevalent in the neighbourhood of
Wirksworth. Indeed, in the village of Middleton-by-
Wirksworth, it occurs so often that, when passing through

the place years ago, I observed that out of the shop-signs

the majority bore the name Spencer. Among places in
which the name is of long standing is Kirk-Ireton, about

three miles to the south-west of Wirksworth --a secluded

village seated high, and just where the undulating por
tion of Derbyshire begins to pass into the more mountain
ous portion. Here our family had been settled for

generations. A series of extracts from the parish-
register, which I obtained some 20 years ago from the

rector, shows that the name existed there in the latter part

of the 16th century, if not earlier. On tracing back the

entries, it appears that my grandfather, Mathew Spencer,
was born there in 1762; that my great-grandfather,
Mathew, was born there in 1735 ; that my great-great
grandfather, William, was born there in 1702 ; and that
my great-great-great-grandfather, William, was born
there in 1675. Before this date the line of descent is not
traceable, because the entries extending over a period of
more than 50 years after 1600, have been rendered illeg
ible by damp. Next preceding that period comes the
name of Anthony Spencer, baptized in 1597, and then a
little before that comes the earliest legible registry of the
name, in the marriage of Thomas Spencer with Agnes
Heane, in 1581.

   The oldest family document which has been preserved,
is a deed of settlement on my great-grandfather when
he was about to marry Elizabeth Soar, who is, in the
deed, represented as having " expectations." Most likely

                                                   10

                                  EXTRACTION

these expectations which led to the tying of a small prop
erty, consisting of two fields and four cottages, on my
great-grandfather. It would seem, however, that Eliza
beth Soar's expectations were disappointed, for there is
no sign that any increase of possessions accrued to the

family from the marriage. The next oldest document I

possess, is a letter written by this great-grandmother
Elizabeth Spencer, to her son, my grandfather, asking
him to send an easy vehicle to convey her to Derby, that
she might take up her abode with him: her widowed

life at Kirk-Ireton having become wearisome in her old

age.

   Of these village-ancestors, two traits may be noted--

one inferred and the other known. The dates of their
marriages imply that the Kirk-Ireton Spencers were a

prudent race.
   Beginning with Anthony Spencer, the remotest identi

fiable ancestor whose birth is registered, we find that the
interval between his birth and that of his grandson (the
date of his son's being lost in the illegible part of the
register) is 60 years. Unless there were three genera
tions, each following its predecessor at an interval of 20
years, which is very improbable, the son and grandson
must have respectively married at the average age of
nearly 30. My great-great-great-grandfather appears to
have been 26 when he married. My great-great-grand
father did not marry till he was over 30. Again, 26 was
the age my great-grandfather had reached before he
undertook domestic responsibilities. And like caution
was shown by my grandfather.

   A more pronounced manifestation of prudential feeling

was habitually given by my great-grandmother, Eliza

                                                                  11

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

time made visits to Kirk-Ireton, and my father told me
that always when he came away the last words of his
grandmother took the form of a message to her daughter-
in-law, Catherine -- " Be sure you tell Kitty to forecast."
So unusual an injunction, repeatedly given, seems to

imply a very predominant tendency to consider the future
rather than the present.

   As said at the outset, facts of lineage may have sig
nificance where there are pronounced family-traits, and

especially where these traits are manifested along both
lines of ancestry. This seems to be the case here.

   The nonconforming tendency -- the lack of regard for
certain of the established authorities, and readiness to
dissent from accepted opinions --of course characterized,
in considerable degrees, the earliest of Wesley's follow

ers ; and, like the Brettell family, the Spencer family, the
Holmes family, and the Taylor family, were among these
earliest followers. Beyond the relative independence of
nature thus displayed, there was implied a correlative
dependence on something higher than legislative enact
ments. Under circumstances indicated by the bearing of
persecution for religious beliefs, nonconformity to human
authority implies conformity to something regarded as
higher than human authority. And this conformity is of
the same intrinsic nature whether it be shown towards a
conceived personal Deity, or whether it be shown towards
a Power transcending conception whence the established

order proceeds--whether the rule of life is derived from

supposed divine dicta or whether it is derived from ascer
tained natural principles. In either case there is obedi
ence to regulations upheld as superior to the regulations
made by men.

                                                          12

                                  EXTRACTION

is regard for remote results rather than for immediate
results. Relinquishment of present satisfactions with the
view of obtaining future satisfactions, is shown alike in
that prudence which by self-denial seeks terrestrial wel
fare and by that prudence which by self-denial seeks
celestial welfare. In both cases, proximate gratifications
which are seen to be relatively small are sacrificed to
future gratifications which are conceived as relatively
great. In the family-traits above described were visible
both these aspects of the self-restraining nature. The
elder Brettells, described by their son Jeremiah as moral
and church-going people, gave such indications of this
character as well-conducted life implies ; and the Wesley-
ans among their children, displayed it in the form of
preference for the promised happiness of a life hereafter
to various pleasures of the present life. Exhibiting the
same trait in their creed and corresponding conduct, the
Spencers exhibited it in other ways. The relatively late
marriages indicated, and still more that emphatic advice
to forecast, imply that the readiness to sacrifice the pass
ing day for days to come was a family-characteristic.
And this was recognized by some members of the last

generation; for I remember in a letter of one uncle to

another, a failing which they were said to have in com
mon, was described as a tendency to dwell too much upon
possible forthcoming evils.

   Has there not been inheritance of these ancestral traits,
or some of them? That the spirit of nonconformity is
shown by me in various directions, no one can deny : the
disregard of authority, political, religious, or social, is
very conspicuous. Along with this there goes, in a trans
figured form, a placing of principles having superhuman

                                                          13

                           AN AUTO BIOGRAPHY
out all writings of mine relating to the affairs of men, it
is contended that ethical injunctions stand above legal
injunctions. And once more, there is everywhere shown
in my discussions of political questions, a contemplation
of remote results rather than immediate results, joined
with an insistence on the importance of the first as com
pared with that of the last.

   These analogies are so clear that it can scarcely, I

think, be fancy on my part to regard them as implying a
descent of family-characteristics.

                                                           14

II. GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN.

  Pursuing the same course as before, I will here de

scribe first those members of the grandparental group
about whom there is least to be said. For this reason

I commence with my mother's parents.
   Of John Holmes, my maternal grandfather, the earliest

record I have is an indenture of apprenticeship to John

Evatt, a plumber and glazier in Derby, dated 1765, and
which identifies him as the son of Frances Holmes,
widow, of the same place: the probability being that his
deceased father had left wife and child with but narrow
means. Save the possible relationship before named, to

the Holmeses of Brailsford, this is all I know of his ante

cedents.

   I infer that he succeeded to Mr. Evatt's business. At

any rate he carried on with success the specified trade for
many years, and became a prosperous man. This is
 shown by the fact that when my mother was 20 (in 1814)
 he had a suburban house in addition to his place of
 business. Soon after, however, he illustrated the truth
 that men who are prudent in small matters are apt to
 commit extreme imprudences in large matters : their
 caution having prevented them from gaining those ex
periences which lead to knowledge of dangers. He was
 induced to enter into partnership with a man named
Aucott, as a pin-manufacturer; and he supplied most, if
not the whole, of the capital. The enterprise was a failure

                                                           15

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

non-success of the business and partly by becoming
security for his partner. The result was that the latter
part of his life was spent in narrow circumstances; and
after my grandmother's death his last years were passed
in our house.

    In common with all members of both families in that
generation, he was a Wesleyan, and an active member of
the connexion in Derby. From my mother's diary, kept
during her teens, it appears that the Wesleyan preachers
were frequently entertained at his house, and he was
himself " a local preacher." We may not suppose that the
ability to preach such sermons as served for rural con
gregations round about Derby, was an indication of any

ability calling for mention; and I remember my father

speaking of him as " a slow-coach." Nevertheless, he
appears to have had a little more than the ordinary
amount of faculty. Among my mother's letters are some
verses addressed by him to her when she was away on a
visit, urging her to return. Taking the familiar shape of
a parody, and substituting " My Harriet " for " My
Mother," they diverge a good deal in idea from their
prototype; and. being fairly good in rhyme and rhythm,
as well as in choice of words, exhibit some small power
of literary expression.

   I saw much of him during my early boyhood, when

he had partially lost his faculties and wandered a good

deal -- wandered in a double sense, for his failure of
memory took the form of supposing that he had matters
of business to look after, and led to rambles through the
town with a vain desire to fulfil them. Joined with the
remembrance of this goes the remembrance of his pecul
iar walk --a walk which seemed about to break into a

                                                    16

            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

ment of duty survived even after mental decay had gone
far.

   Of my maternal grandmother, nee Jane Brettell, there
is not much to be said. A portrait of her which is shown

in this volume probably flatters her unduly, for I remem

ber my mother said that it was not a good likeness. As

however she must have been something like 50 before
my mother's recollections of her became distinct, her ap
pearance had doubtless diverged a good deal from that
which she presented in her early days. That she had, how
ever, some attractions, mental or bodily or both, is shown
by verses addressed to her, and signed Sarah Crole,
expressed in the high-flown style of eulogy common in
those days. They were written in Richmond, Virginia,
to which place, some time after 1780, she went to take
charge of the house of a " Carter Braxton, Esq.," to
whose care is addressed a letter from her brother Jere
miah, dated at the beginning of 1787. From an expres

sion in the letter accompanying the verses I have named,

it seems that Sarah Crole was a governess, and that the
verses were addressed to my grandmother on her de
parture for England in July, 1788. The marriage to my
grandfather must have been rather late. Her birth being
in 1 75 1 and her return from America being in 1788, she
must have been something like 40. My mother, born in
1794, was the only child.

    Such evidence as there is implies that this maternal
grandmother was a commonplace person. Indeed, my

father described her as vulgar-minded. His estimate was

doubtless influenced by her persistent opposition to his
marriage with my mother: an opposition founded, as it
seems, on worldly considerations. That she took a purely

                     3 17

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

mercantile view of marriage, I find further evidence in a
letter to her from a nephew --John Bromley, a London
auctioneer --expostulating with her upon this opposi

tion, and implying that she ignored altogether the senti
mental element in the relation. Perhaps this was not,
however, then so decided an evidence of character as it
would be now; for in those days there still survived the
ideas and usages which subordinated the wills of chil
dren to the wills of parents, in the choice of husbands or
wives, and made motives of policy the exclusive, or al
most exclusive, determinants.

   In justice to her I should add that her disapproval of

the marriage was in part prompted by the belief that her
daughter would be too much subordinated; and in this

she proved to be right.

   A tolerably distinct image of my grandfather Spencer
remains with me. It is the image of a melancholy-looking

old man, sitting by the fireside, rarely saying anything,
and rarely showing any sign of pleasure. The only smiles

I ever saw on his face occurred when he patted me on the

head during my childhood. When, some 40 years ago, in
quiries prompted a reference to Dr. Biber's Life of Pes-

talozzi, I was struck by the resemblance between Pesta-

lozzi's face and my grandfather's, or rather between the
expressions of the two faces; for my grandfather had
evidently been a handsomer man than Pestalozzi. But
both faces had the same worn and sad look. Not im
probably religious fears had something to do with this
chronic melancholy; or perhaps these merely gave a
definite form to the depression caused by constitutional
exhaustion. His mature life had been passed during war
time, when taxes were heavy and the necessaries of life

                                                           18

           i

1

                   JANE HOLMES, NEE BRETTELL.


            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

dear; and the rearing of a large family on the proceeds
of a school, augmented to but a small extent by the re

turns from his little property at Kirk-Ireton, had been a

heavy burden upon him.
   Leaving the Derby Grammar School out of the com

parison, his school was about the best in the place. In
my early days I remember hearing sundry leading men
of the town speak of having been his pupils. But in

addition to teaching his own school, he played the part
of a master at the Grammar School. He was not a
classical master, but he undertook the commercial di

vision of the education given there. As one of the mas
ters he had some of the Grammar-School boys as

boarders, and from his account book I see that one of

them was a son of Mr. Nightingale of Leahurst: not,
however, an ancestor of Miss Nightingale, for the pres
ent Nightingales assumed the name on the property
coming to them. This must have been before increase
of his own family filled all available space in his house.

   There was no decided mark of intellectual superiority
in him. He must have been a teacher entirely of the old
kind--a mechanical teacher. Nor does he seem to have
had any intellectual ambition or appreciation of intel
lectual culture. So far from encouraging my father in
studies lying beyond or above the routine work of teach
ing, he spoke disapprovingly of them: wondering how

my father could waste time over them. If he possessed

mental faculty above the average, it must have been
latent, or must have been rendered dormant by the la
bours of his hard life.

   But if nothing in the way of intellectual superiority can
be ascribed to him, there may be ascribed a marked

                                                           19

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

so much so that  when newspaper was being read
is
                a
                      if,
                                      a
aloud, there came an account of something cruel or very
unjust, he would exclaim -- " Stop, stop, can't bear it."
                                                           is I
His sympathetic nature was well shown, too, by his con           I
                 Derbyshire notable of those days-- an
duct towards                                                               a

eccentric man named John Hallam, of whom some ac
count given in Robinson's Derbyshire. As gathered

from the remarks dropped concerning John Hallam by

my father and uncles, he was one of the few men who

have attempted to carry out Christian ethics with literal-

ness. That his unusual character produced                                     great

impression in the locality, shown by the fact that there
a
       a

                                             a
                                            a is
exists mezzotint portrait of him, and further shown

by passage contained in letter by my Aunt Mary to

my father. Speaking of conversation with some pedlar

who had been named to her by John Hallam, she said

that the man expressed his feeling by saying that when

John Hallam died he should put on his worst clothes:
meaning, as appears, that lacking other means of going
a it
into mourning, he should mourn in that way curious
                                                           (a

reversion to primitive form). My grandfather so far

sympathized with this John Hallam and his eccentricities,
that he invited him to take up his abode at No. 4, Green

Lane (my grandfather's house) whenever his wander
ings brought him to Derby.

was nearly       at the time of my grandfather's death
I

                                         1
                                            1

                        I

                                                        a
at the age of 69, and have vague impression of having

heard that he was found dead on his knees.

   My paternal grandmother, Catherine Spencer, nee
Taylor, was of good type both physically and morally.
Born in 1758 and marrying in 1786, when nearly 28, she

                 20

       GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

1843: dying at the age of 84 in possession of all her fac
ulties. Her constitutional strength was shown by the

fact that some writing of hers which I possess was writ

ten at the age of 80 without spectacles.

Like her husband she was a follower of John Wesley.

She knew him personally, and was among the few who

attached themselves to him in the days when he was

pelted by the populace. At the time of her death she was

the oldest member of the Wesleyan connexion in Derby.

Of her original appearance there exists no evidence.

Of her face in old age the portrait gives a fair idea. It is
reproduced from a pencil sketch I made of her in 1841,

when she was in her 83rd year. This sketch shows her
as wearing the plain Methodist cap, which she adhered

to all through life : this being a part of that wholly unor-

namented dress which, in the early days of Methodism,
Iwas,
       think, de rigucur-- a point of community with

Quakerism.
   Nothing was specially manifest in her, intellectually

considered, unless, indeed, what would be called sound

common sense. But of her superior emotional nature

the proofs were marked. Unwearying, compassionate,

good-tempered, conscientious, and affectionate, she had
all the domestic virtues in large measures. How far this

was due to her strong religious feeling, and how far to

original character, I am not prepared to say. No doubt

the two factors co-operated; but, in the absence of high
moral endowments, no religious feeling would have suf
ficed to produce the traits she displayed. There are two
ways in which a superior creed may act. Either the sub
ordination-element in it may impress, and there may be
great observance of prescribed usages, an habitual ex

       21

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

ence; or there may be more especially operative the ethi

cal element associated with the creed. In the case of

both these grandparents, while the subordination-

element, which Christianity involves was duly recog

nized, the ethical element, revived as it was in Wesley-

anism, was more especially appreciated. Their innate

tendencies were mainly the causes of their high moral

manifestations, while, no doubt, these innate tendencies

were strengthened by the religious sanction. From an

account of my grandmother written by my uncle Thomas,

and of which I possess a copy in my father's hand, I

quote the most significant passages: --
  " I do not recollect ever seeing her give way to undue

anger or violence of temper. I never knew her guilty of the
slightest deviation from integrity. I never knew her speak

of any person with bitterness or ill will. She was full of

....compassion for the afflicted and the destitute, and her feelings
towards the ignorant and depraved were those of pity and

not of contempt  Her activity was so uniform,

that I do not recollect even the appearance of indolence.

Her fault, if any, was in doing too much. She never spared

her own exertions when she could in way minister to the

comfort of my father or of any of the family. In this respect

....she was the most unselfish person I have ever seen. She was
particularly attentive to the performance of her religious

duties           Next to the scriptures, her favourite

....books were Fletcher's letters, Baxter's Saint's Rest and

Wesley's Thomas a Kempis. The latter she always carried
about her person."
There is an obituary notice of her in the Wesleyan Meth

odist Magazine for January, 1844.

   Family-traits are of course likely to be displayed in
other lines of descent, as well as in the particular line

                                                   22

CATHERINE SPENCER, NEE TAYLOR.


            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

under inquiry; and the identification of such traits may
be facilitated by comparing the various lines and ob
serving what they have in common. Hence it becomes
desirable to give some account not of grandparents and
parents only, but of the other children of grandparents.

Here, therefore, I shall devote some space to sketches

of my father's brothers and sister.
   Nothing, of course, is to be said of the two who died in

infancy. Of the six remaining, the first in order of age
was the only surviving daughter, Mary Ann Spencer,

born in August, 1788. I have but few data for a descrip
tion of her; and what description I can give is not par

ticularly favourable. She was living during my early

boyhood, and I remember her as a bedridden invalid,
woe-worn and fretful -- a mere wreck, apparently, of one

who had originally been well-grown and fine-looking.
The opinion of my father was that a disappointed attach
ment had originated the invalid life which ended in this
miserable way; and it may be that the unamiable mood
habitually displayed originated from the disappointment.
But, judging from her letters written in youthful days, it
seems to me that she had a strong sense of her own
claims and not a duly proportioned sense of the claims

of others. I do not know that she differed much in this

respect from the average of people ; but she differed from

most other members of the family. In these the egoistic

elements were kept well in check by the altruistic.
   After her in age came my father, born in February,

1790. Of him, of course, I say nothing here; but reserve

all that is to be said for the chapter which follows.

   Henry Spencer, the next eldest of the family, was a

                                                   23

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

spects he was a favourable sample of the type. With no

lack of that self-assertion which shows itself in independ
ence, he joined an unusual amount of sympathy, dis
played in various ways.

  A letter of his written from Macclesfield when he was

about 21, describes an artisan-riot and the suppression of
it by the soldiery, which was going on while he wrote:
an artisan-riot reminding us of the Trades-Union riots
with which we are now familiar, and, like them, utterly
regardless not of the masters' interests only but of the
interests of poor and unconcerned persons. The letter
describes how he had been himself, to some extent, im

plicated. It says that some of the riotous artisans, gath
ering round women who were selling potatoes in the

market-place, and demanding to have them at half the
price asked, eventually threw over some of the women's
sacks ; and the letter adds that he helped one of the
women to pick up her scattered potatoes. Correspond
ence of later date exhibits him as having actively es
poused the cause of some ill-used man in the establish
ment in which he was engaged, and as having suffered in
consequence. On one occasion he took the proverbially
unwise course of defending a woman against her hus
band, and, as usual, met with no thanks from her. There
was clearly a strong dash of chivalry in him.

   Gratitude, too, was a marked trait, if we may judge
from a letter written when 22 to my father. He had been
apprenticed to a draper, and at the time in question was,

I suppose, playing the part of journeyman, evidently

dissatisfied with his position, and not seeing his way to
wards future success in life. My father, who had accumu
lated a good deal by his teaching, had offered to furnish

                                              24

           GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

declining the offer, is quite pathetic in its display of feel
ing. But at the same time that he expresses his thanks
in language which, though extreme, is manifestly genu

ine, he says: -- " In the first place I could not like at all to
take so much money from you which I perhaps should

never have it in my power to return." Evidently his grat
itude was not of the kind sarcastically defined as a keen
sense of favours to come.

   When some years later he did, however, commence
business, he proved very successful: quickly accumulat
ing a considerable capital. But by him, as by many
others, was exemplified the truth that unusual success in

routine business may become a snare, by prompting en-
terprizes not of a routine character, for which a different
capacity is required. He entered into the lace-manufac
ture at the time of its great prosperity, and he also
speculated in house-building. By both of these he lost --
by the first heavily; and, led at the same time as he was,
by domestic unhappiness, to spend much time away from
home and neglect his business, he ruined himself and
died early.

    But various facts besides those named show that from
boyhod up he had displayed a fine nature. What intel
lectual powers he possessed beyond such as his career

implied, I cannot say, further than that I remember when

a boy, listening to his denunciation of poor-laws as being
bad in principle: showing that he was given to independ
ent thinking about social affairs. Indeed he was a hot
politician, going to the extent in those pre-reform days
of wearing a white hat, which was a symbol of radicalism
and exposed the wearer to insult. In his nonconformity,
too, he was very decided; even going so far as to blame
his brother Thomas for entering the Church, though the

                                                   25

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

VVesleyanism in which they had all been brought up, did
not imply dissent from Church-doctrine but only from

Church-discipline. But I suspect that his leanings were

anti-ceremonial.

   One other fact may be added. He had a marked sense
of humour; differing in that respect from his brothers,
in whom the sense of humour was but ordinary. This
trait was inherited by his eldest son, W. A. Spencer, who
has written some good squibs a propos of local affairs.

   Of John Spencer, the son who came next in succes

sion, I have nothing good to say. Along with an indi

viduality of character which he had in common with the
rest, he had none of those higher traits without which the

display of individuality becomes repellent. In letters, I

have nowhere met with favourable references to him, nor

do I remember to have heard during my boyhood any

word uttered in his praise. He was entirely egoistic, and
in pursuit of personal advantage sacrificed the interests
of other members of the family without scruple : pushing
his claims in some cases -- especially in the case of his

brother Henry's widow--to the extent of cruelty.
   He was a solicitor, and one or more of his brothers

attributed the inequity of his conduct to converse with

the law. This was, I think, an error. There is proof that

in boyhood unamiable manifestations of character were

frequent. In letters of his elder sister, there occur refer
ences to him as " boasting John" and " blustering John "
--descriptive names indicative of deficient sympathy.
Throughout life he was eminently self-asserting. An
early illustration is furnished by the fact that he headed
a group of his companions in playing at soldiers during

                                                   26

           GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

Boys then formed themselves into regiments which took
the names of French and English, and he was captain of
one of the regiments. In later years he gave evidence of
this trait by his secession from the orthodox Wesleyans
for trivial reasons. He disagreed upon a minor point of
doctrine. A letter to his brother Thomas shows what

the point was: --

   " We have had considerable discussion here among our
Body concerning Faith --whether it is the Gift of God, and
whether it is our duty to pray for it. My opinion at present
is, that it is not the direct Gift of God, and that we should

not pray for it. Will you give me your opinion and reasons

with scripture substantiations. We have six Local preachers
in a neighbouring circuit suspended from preaching on

account of entertaining such opinions as I hold."

   This disagreement resulted in the formal separation of
himself and some adherents. For the propagation of his

belief he built, or rather I suppose obtained the funds for

building, a large chapel, still standing in Babington Lane,

Derby. In this he preached: his doctrine obtaining, I

heard, the nickname of " the Derby faith." How long the

business lasted I cannot say -- some few years, I fancy.

   Whether it was that his energies were in this way too
much diverted from his profession, or whether it was that
by this secession he alienated clients, who probably most
of them belonged to the Methodist connexion, or

whether both causes operated, which seems probable, I

cannot say; but after a time his non-success as a lawyer
caused him to emigrate with his family to America: first
of all to Illinois, and then years later to California, where
he died after outliving all his brothers.

                                                   27

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

to whom I now come in order, was the one who became

best known to the public -- at one time widely known.

His youth, or at any rate part of
                     :

                                     it,

                                                                                aa
                                                                                              was passed as

teacher in Quorn School near Derby. It was then

school of some local repute. Energetic and not without

ambition, he presently succeeded in obtaining sufficient

funds for university career loans from my father consti

tuting part -- believe the larger part --of the resources
a

   I

furnished him. St. John's, Cambridge, was his college,
and he achieved honours. His successes were the results

not of any unusual endowments but rather of good

memory and hard work --work which undermined his
                     I

                                      is
                                                                   a
                                                                    a
health temporarily, and think permanently. His ap

pearance as young man may be judged from the photo
a

print, given in this volume as reduced from life-sized

crayon portrait made of him by my father.

In his Reminiscences, chiefly of Towns, Villages, and

Schools, an account of my uncle given by the Rev. T.
Mozley, author also of Reminiscences of Oriel College and
the Oxford Movement. Mr. Mozley was well known in

the last generation as one of the reactionists in the Eng

lish Church well known, too, as editor of their quarterly
I it
                ;
                                                                                           :
organ The British Critic; and perhaps still better known

as one of the leader-writers in The Times in the days
when was called " the Thunderer " the chief leader-

writer may say on the authority of Sir George Dasent,

who had been one of the staff, and who told me that they

looked up to Mozley as their head. He read mathematics

with my uncle during the long vacation of 1827, and, as

preliminary to my own characterization,                                                       cannot do
                   I

                                                             it

                                                 I
better than quote some passages from Mr. Mozley's de
scription of him:--
" Of one memory must deliver myself,
                                                                                              looms so large,

                     28

THOMAS SPENCER.


            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

and so obstinately recurrent. In so doing I feel like the lady

who married an importunate suitor just to get rid of him.

However, I have no wish to forget Thomas Spencer, whom,
after nearly sixty years, I remember with increasing respect,

and even gratitude, not to say affection. . . Mr. Spencer
was Fellow of S. John's, a ninth wrangler, one of Mr.
Simeon's party, and the friend of a man 1 have always
heard highly spoken of, Archdeacon Law, son of the Bishop.
. . Mr. Spencer held a curacy for some time at Penzance,
then much more out of the way than now, and more primi
tive. Then he had sole charge of a church at Clifton for a
year or two, and was popular, as a preacher."
Either Mr. Mozley's information or his memory is in this
matter at fault. My uncle had previously been curate
at Anmer in Norfolk, where he was at the same time
tutor to the squire's son, and after that he held, for
awhile, the college-living of Stapleford near Cambridge.

   " His college friend then gave him [after his residence at
Clifton] the small living of Charterhouse Hinton, between
Bath and Frome, and with two very steep hills to ascend
from the former."

Here I may interpose the remark that the " living " was
scarcely to be called one in the pecuniary sense. It had

recently been endowed, partly from Queen Anne's Fund,
with an income of about £80 a year: not having had
since the Reformation an independent existence, ecclesi

astically considered. Strangely enough, the last incum
bent, a Roman Catholic priest, was named Thomas Spen

cer. Concerning my uncle Mr. Mozley goes on to say: --

   " He was a decidedly fine-looking man, with a command
ing figure, a good voice, and a ready utterance. So the
church was pretty well filled. He always worked himself
up into something like a passion, and came home exhausted."

                                              29

                            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

course of the subsequent six years; for, from 1833 to

1836, when I constantly heard his preaching, I cannot
recall any sign of excitement. Indeed I should have de

scribed him as uniformly calm.
    " Mr. Spencer was not at home in his village. He had

none of the small coinage of courtesy. Mrs. Day, the lady at
the mansion, was a woman of the world, and prepared to
make the best of everybody, and he got on well with her.
 But even with her he had a ruffle.

   " The truth was poor Mr. Spencer was born before his
time. He was a reformer in Church and State, and he really
anticipated some great movements. He did not quite break
out till after our brief acquaintance, but his heart was full
and ready to overflow. He kept up a long and busy warfare
against the vicious administration of the Old Poor Law.
He was an agitator for Temperance before even the Temper
ance Societies. He was early for the commutation of tithes,
and for the more equal distribution of Church funds. He
published some exceedingly crude ideas for a radical change
in Church services, in utter defiance of all liturgical senti
ment and principle."

   Other passages from Mr. Mozley's description I do not

quote, partly because they are spoiled by exaggeration.
Probably his long-continued habit as a leading-article
writer encouraged the tendency to overstate, common to
all of us ; for a leading article which kept within the strict
limits of truth, would lack the point and vigour for which
readers look. But these extracts from Mr. Mozley's
chapter, represent the facts fairly well. They form a

good preface to what I have myself to say.

   The above-mentioned Mr. Spencer was the leader of
the evangelical movement in Cambridge-- a movement
inside the Church, which seems to have been parallel to

                                                   30

            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

two were akin in their asceticism. Public amusements

were tabooed by both. My uncle was never, I believe,
within the walls of a theatre; and I never heard of his at
tending a concert. As to dancing, something more than

abstention on his own part was implied by the answer he
gave when, during my youth, being with him at an even

ing party in Bath, the hostess inquired why I did not join
some young people who were waltzing. His explanation
was -- " No Spencer ever dances." But the evangelical

ism of that day, with its asceticism joined philanthropy;
and my uncle quickly exhibited this by his activities at
Hinton. There were no appliances for teaching, and he
forthwith had a school built and a master appointed. For
the more educated adults and those who were taught to
read he provided a village-library. After a time he in
duced one of the chief landowners to let out a tract in
allotments. For the increase of comfort, as well as the
encouragement of providence, he, with the co-operation
of my aunt, established a clothing-club. There were few,

if any, good cottages, so he presently built some -- four, I

think. And soon after his marriage he went to the ex
tent of having, at the parsonage, a meat-dinner on Sun
days for labourers: now one group and now another.
In course of years, however, he became conscious of
the mischiefs done by aid inadequately restrained; so
that when the New Poor Law was passed he forthwith
applied its provisions to Hinton, and, notwithstanding
great opposition, reduced the rates from £700 a year to
£200 a year; at the same time increasing the comfort
and prosperity of the parish. When the Bath Union, in
cluding Hinton, was formed, he became the first Chair
man of the Board of Guardians. Besides sharing actively

                                                          31

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

bourhood, he wrote numerous pamphlets on Religion
and Politics, Ecclesiasticism, The Prayer Book, Church-
Reform, National Education, Corn-Laws, Poor-Laws,
People's Rights, Legislative Meddling, etc.: twenty-
three in all, many of them having wide circulations, even
to the extent of twenty-eight thousand.

   At this stage of his career, and during my visit to

Hinton in 1842, I modelled a life-sized bust of him -- my
first and only attempt of the kind. But I had no techni

cal knowledge whatever, and my plan for strengthening
the neck to support the head, failed: the neck cracked
across. The detached head, as shown in the photoprint
in this volume, supported on a cushion under some silk,
of course looks rather odd.

   As his name became better known, my uncle's sphere
of activity extended, and he was frequently away during

the week in distant places, speaking on one or other of

sundry topics --temperance more frequently than any

other. Always, however, he returned home, even when
one or two hundred miles away, in time for the two Sun
day services which he gave.

   Differing profoundly from those Church of England
priests who think their duty consists in performing cere
monies, conducting praises, offering prayers, and utter
ing such injunctions as do not offend the influential
members of their flocks, his conception of the clerical
office was more like that of the old Hebrew prophets, who
denounced the wrong-doings of both people and rulers.
He held that it came within his functions to expose
political injustices and insist on equitable laws. Hence
it happened that he took an active part in the agitation
for the repeal of the Corn Laws -- attending meetings,
giving lectures, writing tracts. How conspicuously active

                                                   32

BUST OF THOMAS SPENCER.


           GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

he was is shown by the fact that he said grace at the

first Anti-Corn-Law banquet, and that, continuing his
relations with the league to the end, he said grace also at
the last Anti-Corn-Law banquet. Among the State-

appointed teachers of rectitude there was, I believe, one

other avowed Free-trader, though not an active one; but
with this qualified exception my uncle was, strange to
say, the only clergyman out of fifteen thousand who con

tended that the people of England, mostly poor, should
not be compelled to buy corn at artificially-enhanced
prices to enrich English landlords. This was not his
only endeavour to further political equity. He entered
with energy into the movement for extending the fran
chise. He was a member of the first conference held
at Birmingham to initiate the Complete Suffrage move
ment, and was a delegate to the subsequent conference,
also held there, to frame, if possible, a basis of agreement
with the Chartists -- a futile experiment.

   Here let me interrupt the narrative for a moment to

indicate the personal results of his conscientiousness.
Between 1840 and 1845, one wno wu' hereafter figure as

E. A. B., kept up with me a correspondence. An elder
brother of his was then an undergraduate at Oxford,
preparing for the Church. From one of E. A. B.'s letters
to me here is a passage: --

   " My brother asked a fellow collegian of his (who comes
from Bath) if he knew a clergyman of the name of Spencer
there ; his friend said : ' Do you mean Spencer of Hinton
Charterhouse, for if you do, he is as mad as a March hare.'
What do you think of that ! I see he has been figuring lately
at some radical meeting for the repeal of the Corn Laws,
where he proposed the first resolution. -- Pretty well that for
a clergyman ! "
Certainly, quite mad from the clerical point of view.

                  4 33

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

What could be more mad than offending his bishop by
writing a pamphlet on Church reform and so shutting
out all chances of preferment ? Or what could be more

mad than endeavouring to get carried out, in political
reforms, the Christian principles he weekly emphasized
from the pulpit? This was not the only criticism, how

ever. A subsequent letter from E. A. B. contains the
passage :--

   " It is not as if he differed [from other clergymen] in one

or two points, though a conscientious man could hardly do
that and retain his appointment, but differing as he does so
completely upon almost all points, he still continues to hold

an appointment under that church, an appointment which I

believe to be a sinecure, or something like it."

These then are lessons for men who disregard the inter
ests of sacerdotalism as well as their own interests. They
may have to suffer not from a falling short of the truth
but from an absolute inversion of the truth.*

   After more than twenty years' residence at Hinton my

uncle resigned his incumbency and took up his abode
for a time in Bath. Among several prompting motives,
one was the desire to establish a Church-Reform Associ

ation. He was in correspondence on the matter with a

I* As to my uncle's retention of his office as clergyman, may remark

that, in the first place, he thought it unwise to leave the Church, for the

reason that by doing so he would lose all power of effecting any reform

in the Church ; and he instanced the Rev. Baptist Noel, a man of much

influence, who, having seceded, lost all his influence. But respecting

the insinuation of unconscientiousness, made by E. A. B. , the conclusive

/reply is that my unole expressed no dissent from the doctrines which, in
taking orders, he had subscribed to.  do not know of any such, and

certainly E. A. B. did not. My uncle's efforts were not at all to change

doctrines, but to reform administration, and I am not aware that by

taking orders he was bound to abide by the organization established for

diffusion of those doctrines.

                               34

           GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

liberal-minded clergyman who agreed to co-operate;

and, among his papers, I find a printed programme set

ting forth the objects in view. But before the final step
was taken, his co-reformer either did not agree to some
of the proposed measures or else his courage failed him.
At any rate he declined to proceed, and the project
dropped through. Some two years later my uncle moved
to London. There, besides editing the National Tem
perance Chronicle, a large part of which he wrote himself,
he preached and lectured without ceasing -- overtaxing
his system so greatly that in 1853 there came, after minor
illnesses, an illness which ended in his death at the age
of 56.

   Some of his warm admirers were anxious that obituary
notices of him should be published, and a meeting was

held at his house to arrange. I was requested to under

take one of the biographical sketches, but resisted; ex

plaining that I did not approve of biographies which

contained only laudatory things and omitted all draw
backs; and that, probably, some of my comments would
be disliked. Those present agreed that unqualified praise
is to be reprobated, and wished me to say whatever was

requisite to make a true representation. Still I resisted,

feeling sure that this theoretical agreement would come
to nothing, and that any indication of a defect would be
considered offensive. My resistance was finally over

ruled, however. I wrote the requested sketch, in which,
as I considered, I emphasized fully his many admirable

traits, and touched as lightly as truth demanded on
points not so much admired. Here it is :--

   " In his general character Mr. Spencer may be regarded
as having presented in a high degree the predominant pe

                                                    35

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

portion of that unflagging energy which is so distinctive of

the race. His modes of thought and action leaned strongly
to the ' practical '-- a quality by which we are nationally

marked. Throughout life he exhibited a great amount of
that English characteristic--independence. He was largely

endowed with the perseverance which makes us as a race
' not know when we are beaten.' The active philanthropy

by which we are distinguished amongst nations, distinguished

him amongst us. That uprightness in which, on the whole,

we are superior to our continental and transatlantic neigh

bours was in him invariably manifested. Even in its de

ficiencies he represented the Anglo-Saxon nature. That

occasional brusquerie of manner, and that want of tact in

social intercourse for which we are complained of as a peo

ple, were visible in him. He lacked those finer perceptions

which are needful for the due appreciation of beauty in

nature and art ; and in this respect also was like his race.

  Above all, however,  he exhibited  the English type of char

\
acter in the habitual recognition of duty. The determina

tion to do that which ought to be done, simply because it

ought to be done, is a motive of action which has been
shown to be almost peculiar to Englishmen --a motive which

most other nations cannot understand. This motive was

with Mr. Spencer a ruling one. In this respect, also, as in

so many others, he was an intensified Englishman.
   " Commenting upon these and other traits, a relative who

knew him well, writes: --

  ' Were I asked what was his predominant characteristic,
I should say--a strong sense of justice. This, I think, was

the mainspring of most of his public actions, and was clearly

operative in all the larger transactions of his private life.

It was the basis of the morality underlying all his preach
ing. It was exemplified in each of his political tracts. He

was prompted by it to the parochial reforms which he made

at Hinton ; and by it supported through the opposition which

his parishioners at first raised against him. It stimulated

           GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

him to join in the Anti-corn Law agitation. Enlisting his
sympathies on the side of Representative Reform, it led him
to take a prominent part in the Complete Suffrage move
ment. And it was obviously a chief motive in his proposals
for Church Reform. All his opinions and acts tended even
tually to conform themselves to this ruling sentiment. It
formed the centre of his system of thought, round which
all his beliefs ultimately gravitated. Though the prejudices
of education and the bias of circumstances might, at first,
lead him to unjust conclusions; yet he was pretty sure, in
process of time, to arrive at the right ones. This was re
peatedly illustrated. Doctrines to which, in the earlier part
of his life he was averse, slowly commended themselves to
him as substantially equitable ; and having done so, were as
warmly advocated as they were once opposed.'

   " As his relations can testify, he was generous. His gen
erosity however, had the peculiarity -- family peculiarity it
might in some degree be called -- that it was more seen in
large things than in small ones. The daily acts of domestic
life did not exhibit that power of self-sacrifice which was
called out on important occasions. I ascribe this less to a
moral deficiency than to an intellectual one. It had the same
origin as that want of savoir faire which he manifested --
namely, an insufficient power of perceiving the feelings
which the minutiae of our conduct will produce in others.
There go two things to the production of sympathetic be
haviour. The one, an ability to enter into another's feelings,
which is moral; the other, a perception that those feelings
exist, which is intellectual. In this faculty of divining the
minor phases of emotion in others my late relative was
somewhat deficient, and hence it happened that whilst in
the more important acts of life, where the feelings of others
were clearly manifested, his sympathies were abundantly
operative, they were less so in the details of daily conduct.
It requires to be observed, however, that in this respect, as

                                                   37

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

life. He grew yearly less exacting and more considerate.

And in his last illness this change was manifested in a re

markable manner. Instead of being irritable under annoy

ances he became extremely patient and uncomplaining. He

concealed much that he suffered that he might not pain

others. He avoided giving trouble as much as possible;

and expressed his thanks for every little assistance."
   " The uniform success which attended him throughout the

whole of his life until within the last few years, and the

consciousness that this success was due to his own intelli

gence, energy, and uprightness, had generated in him the

belief that good conduct would, in all cases, insure pros

perity, and this led him to pass somewhat severe judgments

on the unsuccessful. His intimate knowledge of pauperism,

which he saw to be in nearly all cases traceable to idleness

and vice, confirmed him in this view. When, however, some

five years before his death, he lost more than one half of his

property, not through any fault of his own, but from the

trickery of the Great Western Railway Company, he had
personal experience of the fact that misfortune will arise

where there has been no misconduct to entail it. He was

taught practically that whilst the fate of each individual is

partly in his own hands, it is partly dependent upon causes

beyond his control. The result of this hard lesson was

morally beneficial to him in a high degree. He became much
more tolerant of faults and failures --less ready to blame the

shortcomings of those about him. He made large allowances

for the unfavourable circumstances of those who fell into

degraded habits of life. And    if,from time to time, he ex
                                     It

                                                          a
pressed unduly harsh opinions of the idle, the drunken, or

the vicious, he was sure, subsequently, to take at least some

of the mitigations into account.  was during these last

few years of his life, and in consequence of the trials they
brought him, that he acquired his power as preacher. In

earlier years his sermons consisted mainly of stern enuncia

38

            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

lectures on practical morality. And being too uniformly
pervaded by the doctrine that all could be contented and
happy who did as they ought, they were not so true, and
not so effective, as they might have been. The disasters of
his later life, however, remedied this defect. They put him
in harmony with his hearers, most of whom had, doubtless,
suffered one form or other of misfortune. He had before
lacked a large portion of experience which others had had.
He had now gained that experience, and could speak to
them upon a common ground-- a thing which was previously
impossible to him. For as it is true, physically, that we
cannot duly sympathize with pain or illness until we have
ourselves suffered them, so it is true, morally, that until we
have borne unhappiness we cannot have a strong fellow-
feeling with it."

   " The charity in judging of conduct which Mr. Spencer
thus gained in his later years, he early gained in judging of
opinions. Throughout life he was the reverse of a bigot.
Considering that his position was one tending to produce
narrowness, he was liberal in the construction he put upon
other men's views to a degree rarely paralleled. When there
was no good reason to think otherwise, he mostly credited
those who differed from him, with sincerity. The doctrine
of religious freedom he carried out consistently to the full;

and this not passively, but actively. Many years ago I re

member hearing him in the pulpit condemn all religious
persecution, even in the case of atheism. This liberality he
continued to exhibit to the last in an increasing degree, as

I can personally testify. Wide as was the difference between

us in religious beliefs, the repeated controversies we have

had were carried on in an amicable spirit; and I was both

surprised and gratified to find that, notwithstanding the
strength of his convictions, my dissent, extreme as it was,
led to no diminution of his kind feeling towards me."

   " Amongst his virtues may be justly classed that of for

                                                   39

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

time of offence, it was not lasting. I can call to recollection

numerous cases in which, after a short lapse of time, all
ground of irritation seemed forgotten, and as friendly a feel
ing was manifested as though nothing had happened.
In this, as in other matters, his habit of revising his esti
mates of things induced much catholicity."

  " If I may hint a foible-- and perhaps in giving an outline
of his character I am in candour bound to do so--I should

say that he had an over-predominant love of approbation.
This is a fault from which few of us are free, and those who
take part in public life are especially prone to exhibit it. In
Mr. Spencer it was naturally strong ; and his whole course
through life --his success at college, his position as pastor,
his habitual authorship, and his connection with various pop

ular movements -- tended to encourage it. I can truly say,

however, what could be said of few similarly circumstanced

--that intimately as I have known him, I remember no

instance in which this feeling caused him to swerve from
the course he thought right."

   " There was one trait in his character which should be
noticed, for the purpose of illustrating the evil that may

arise from the excess of a valuable quality. I refer to his

power of application. He early manifested this in a marked
degree. His university-honours were mainly due to it. In
later life he prosecuted, with untiring zeal, every project he
took up. Such was his tendency to concentrate himself
wholly upon the subject in hand, that during the period in
which it occupied him, he manifested little or no interest in
anything else. Whilst engaged in abolishing pauperism in
his parish, his conversation was almost wholly on poor-law
topics. At other times the Corn-Law question and the
extension of the Suffrage filled his thoughts nearly to the
exclusion of other things. Latterly he became absorbed in
the Temperance cause. The result of this quality was, that
whilst it greatly conduced to his value as an active philan

                                              40

           GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

proportion as his interest in a few topics became intense, it
became weaker in all others. He gradually lost all grati
fication in things that had once been sources of pleasure to
him. Originally endowed with a taste for music he became
careless of that and all other arts. He year by year went
less into society. He ceased to take much interest in the
sciences ; and it needed but to go with him to any species
of exhibition to perceive that the marvels of human industry
and ingenuity had few charms for him. This tendency to
extreme concentration, and this limiting of the sympathies
to which it led, were indirectly amongst the causes of his
premature death. Lecturing and writing on his favourite
subjects acquired so engrossing an interest for him, and other
kinds of occupation became so unattractive, that relaxation
was almost impossible. His leisure brought no rest, for his
mind was ever in pursuit of a new argument or a new illustra
tion. He had no alternative but work or ennui. Hence arose
a constant liability to transgress the laws of health. Hence
arose the over-application which entailed his illness during
the spring of last year. And hence, too, came the irresist
ible temptation which led him, in spite of this warning,
and in spite of constant protests from those around him,
to again err in the same way as soon as he was convales
cent."

   " Leaving out of sight some of the mental results produced
by this tendency to extreme concentration, which he himself

latterly recognized as injurious, I should say of his character,

viewed as a whole, that it was one exhibiting continuous
growth. Unlike those whose convictions are unalterably
fixed at five-and-twenty, and who never develop into any
thing morally higher than they then display, he underwent a
slow but unceasing evolution. Giving his first vote, when a
Fellow of St. John's, for a tory member of Parliament, he
progressed in the course of years to political principles of
extreme liberality. Entering manhood as he did under the

                                                          41

                            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

emancipated himself--became a zealous church reformer,
and ended in condemning the union of Church and State.
Though known during the earlier part of his parochial life as
a pauper's friend, he ultimately saw that it was a false
humanity to encourage idleness at the expense of industry,
and through much opposition succeeding in working out a
reform for which his parishioners eventually thanked him.
Originally feeling but little sympathy with the Peace move
ment, he by-and-bye took an active part in it ; and though
at one time he disagreed with them, he ultimately joined the
opponents of death-punishment. His views on education, and

on sundry other matters, underwent an analogous change. A

corresponding moral advance was also traceable; and this
more especially during his latter years. That so much should
be said of one subject to the cramping, narrowing influences
of a clergyman's life -- influences which commonly destroy
what liberality may originally have existed --is not a little
remarkable, and says much for the superiority of his nature.
How few of those similarly placed display any like progress
of thought and character !"

   That this characterization met with the full approval
of his surviving brothers, my father and my uncle Will
iam, is sufficient evidence of its truthfulness ; but entire
truthfulness is not in such cases permissible. At a sub
sequent meeting of his admirers the sketch was read to

them. The result was as I expected. No positive dis

approval of it was expressed, but it was received in si

lence. Along with other sketches it was, however, sent
to the printer, with the understanding that it was to ap
pear in The National Temperance Chronicle. But a few
days afterwards, while it was still in the printers' hands,
my aunt came to me in a state of some agitation, and

asked whether I would withdraw this sketch. " Cer

                                                   42

            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

it -- resisted, indeed, and I am perfectly ready that it

should not appear." She went away with the implied
assent to withdraw. What resulted, however, was

this:--all its eulogistic parts were published, while those

which contained anything in the shape of qualification

were suppressed. And thus I was defeated.

    But the small drawbacks having been allowed for, my
uncle was very greatly to be admired as an absolutely
sincere man, whose almost exclusive aim in life was the
public welfare. In evidence of the feeling with which he
was regarded by those who had many years' experience

of him, I may add that when he was taken from London

to Hinton to be buried, I was witness to the fact that,

quite unexpectedly, the inhabitants of the Parish, en
masse, met the funeral carriages on their approach, and
formed a long procession.

   Of the youngest son, William, there is not very much
to be said. Though he had sundry traits in common with

the rest, he had, on the whole, a less pronounced char

acter. Of natural ability scarcely exceeding the average,

he was distinguished less by extent of intellectual ac
quisitions than by general soundness of sense, joined
with a dash of originality. He carried on the school after
my grandfather had ceased to teach ; and, when he had
recovered from a breakdown in health, which lasted
some years, resumed it for a period : a fact to be named

because I was, during this second period, one of his

pupils.

  Naturally pleasant-tempered, he was, I suspect, in

early life a little repressed or perhaps snubbed, by his
brothers, as being the youngest; and having, like the

                                                   43

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

erated a tendency to take offence at slights, and, with
him, offence once taken was lasting. This trait led from
time to time to coolness with some members of the fam
ily, as well as with some friends; and it tended to re
duce him to a solitary life which proved eventually
injurious. There were sundry fine traits thus obscured

-- a good deal of generosity, an active interest in the wel
fare of relatives, on whose behalf he many times took

great trouble, and a similar readiness to give his atten
tion to the affairs of friends. Indeed he became with
sundry of them a trusted adviser.

  I think he was generally considered somewhat odd.

Partly this estimate of him was consequent on the ill-
judged remarks he made in the effort to say good things.
As described above, Henry, an elder brother, had a great

deal of humour. When I was a boy he had always some

thing jocose to say to me, when we met. William had
the same desire to be facetious without the power of
being so; and his endeavours sometimes ended in giving
offence -- offence altogether unintended, however, for
there was no tendency to sarcasm in him.

   Taking, like his brothers, an active part in politics, he
was not so extreme a liberal : preserving, rather, his con
nexions with the Whig party than verging into radical
ism. And though in religious opinions a nonconform
ist, his nonconformity did not lead him to diverge from
current opinion so much as it did the rest.

    Certain marked traits were thus common to all the
brothers. Individuality was very decided; and, as a
consequence, they were all regarded as more or less
eccentric. The implication is that there was in them a

                                                   44

GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

is the same thing, a greater tendency than usual to assert

personal judgment in defiance of authority.

Along with this characteristic, and partly perhaps

as a result of         it,    there went general absence of reti
                            it               aa
cence. These brothers were in the habit of saying very

much what they thought, whether on impersonal ques

tions or on personal ones. Necessarily there continually

arose differences of opinion among them, which, ex

pressed without much restraint, caused disputes. In
                                                     I

                                                                     a
                                                                                a
letter from my uncle Henry to my father, find pas
sage indicating this: --

" As we admit that every one of us more or less liable to
                                                     if
these misfortunes,               would not be amiss
                                                              is
                                                     we were to

consider the most effectual method of removing the cause of

many of them. Then in the first place we should encourage

in us as much as possible love for peace and an aversion
                                 a
to contention and such controversies as lead to serious dissena

sions: without this sense of (which seems to be the founit
dation of amendment) little success may be expected. 2ndly.

           good plan after quarrel to weigh coolly both sides
It
the question and the cause which provokes to words by
     ? is                                            a
          athe first we learn not to judge too rashly, by the last weis a

             ashould perceive those positive denials, those harsh contradic;

                                                                         is
tions which stir up anger this would give us claim to be
                                 ;

                                   is
master of language which softer, yet conclusive, manner

equally commanding but milder. Hastiness in replying

frequently the cause, consideration and patience                  indis

pensably necessary, flat contradiction seldom answers any
                              a

good end, frequently begets dislike, borders on stupidity,
                it

shows want of breeding,          it              breach of politeness, much
                                     is

self-control essential. But stop my pen, who am address
                it                                   it
                   is                                    is,

                                                          I
ing Is not my brother, every wit more prudent, more
capable, more loving, most affectionate, best--
                                                     then, blush

and write no more."

                                       45

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

The tendency to disagree, here implied, persisted
throughout life. Whenever they were together, some
discussion or other, mostly religious, or political, or
ethical, or occasionally scientific, was sure to be raised,
and as, although at one in their chief views they diverged
in details, there arose arguments which not unfrequently
ended in warm words. Doubtless a part cause of this
was a strong regard for truth. While very many people
do not care much whether the opinions they hear ex
pressed are correct or not, members of the Spencer-
family usually cared a great deal. Nothing concerning
right and wrong, truth and error, was indifferent to them.
Of course there were apt to result hot controversies.

   Nevertheless the brothers had much regard for one
another; and, in early days, as in later life, there were
many expressions of mutal regard. " What a privilege
it is to have such a brother," says Thomas in one of his
letters written in youth concerning Henry; and in an

other place I see Henry speaking of " the noble Thomas."

Moreover, they appear to have had in common an af
fectionate respect for my father, who had insensibly
come into the position of head of the house, in conse
quence of the early abdication of my grandfather, ren
dered passive by his melancholy mood. Says Henry in
one of his letters: --

   " May you ever be rewarded according to your merit. May
you ever remain the standard as you are to our family, may
you ever be as much beloved by them as at present. Lastly
may you be fortunate enough to have a woman for your wife
that is as worthy as yourself."

   The above-described tendency to discuss, and to di
verge from one another, was naturally accompanied by a

                                                   46

            GRANDPARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN

brought up. They severally deviated into further non
conformities. Brought up as Wesleyans, they dissented
more or less from that form of dissent; and, in the case
of my uncle Thomas, where there was at first a change
towards conformity, the constitutional tendency was
subsequently shown in a very pronounced opposition to
ecclesiasticism. So was it politically. Though all of
them Whigs, whose creed at that day was relatively
uniform, they did not adopt party-shibboleths, but had
special opinions of their own. And they habitually criti
cized current views respecting manners and customs.

   Among negative traits which accompanied these posi

tive traits, I may name one -- a comparatively small inter

est in gossip. As a boy I rarely if ever heard among

them any talk about royal personages, or court doings, or
anything concerning bishops and deans, or any agents
of the ruling powers. Their conversation ever tended

towards the impersonal. As a further negative trait I

may mention that there was no considerable leaning
towards literature. Their discussions never referred to

poetry, or fiction, or the drama. Nor was the reading of
history carried to any extent by them. And though in
early life they were all musical, the aesthetic in general
had no great attractions. It was rather the scientific
interpretations and moral aspects of things which occu
pied their thoughts.

   To sum up, the traits common to them of most import
to be here noted were--independence, self-asserting judg

ment, the tendency to nonconformity, and the unre
strained display of their sentiments and opinions ; more
especially in respect of political, social, religious, and
ethical matters.

                                                    47

                    III. PARENTS.

  My father, born in 1790, whose Christian name was
William George, but who was distinguished as George,

because there was a younger brother named William, was

the eldest of the surviving brothers. A passage quoted

at the close of the last chapter, will justify the remark
that he was " the flower of the flock :" to use a mixed
metaphor which, absurd though it is, has gained general
currency. To faculties which he had in common with
the rest (except the humour of Henry and the linguistic
facility of Thomas) he added faculties they gave little
sign of. One was inventive ability and another was
artistic perception, joined with skill of hand. In some
respects, too, he was morally their superior. To exclude
misinterpretation of my motive for saying this, let me

join with it the confession that in sundry respects I am

his inferior. Save in certain faculties specially adapting

me to my work, inherited from him with increase, I con

sider myself as in many ways falling short of him, both
intellectually and emotionally as well as physically.

   Though not robust in the full sense, he had a constitu
tion which was well balanced and capable of considerable
endurance as witness the fact that he, when a young
man, in company with two of his brothers, walked sixty
miles in a day. Standing six feet when shod, he was
noteworthy for a well-built figure and a carriage which

united dignity and grace in a degree rarely equalled. I

                                              48

                               PARENTS

even after he was 70, that ladies turned around to watch

him when he had passed : a fact I recently verified by

appealing to one who had done so. But there is inde

pendent testimony on this point in the second series of

the Rev. Thomas Mozley's Reminiscences, &c.                                                         Here is
his description :--
                                                                                                   decidedly
   " He was a tall, spare, upright figure, more

good-looking than my clerical friend James Dean, of about
the same build, with the tight-fitting blue frock-coat of the

period. With the advantage of such a figure and of an

equable movement, he could not appear in a street without
everybody in it becoming immediately sensible of the fact "

ii,

       I
              I
(vol. p. 144).

Now that have quoted Mr. Mozley on this point,
                                                                                                   I
occurs to me that may with advantage quote him on
                                                                                                               a it
various other points. Before he studied under my uncle

Thomas he was pupil of my father, and he has saida

good deal about him. In the Reminiscences of Oriel Col                  I,
lege, &c, there was given in vol. pp. 145-9 an incidental
description of his ideas and sentiments, to which found

needful to take exception publicly. The result was
a it
                                it

                                                                 ;
that in his second autobiographic work, Reminiscences
chiefly of Towns, Villages, and Schools, Mr. Mozley made

reply to my protests and, in doing so, devoted four

short chapters to an account of my father. Before utiliz

ing his statements, will be well to indicate the extent to

which many of them must be discounted: the needful

caution being measured by an example. Incidentally re
ferring to my works, he describes them as an " imposing

system which occupies several yards of shelf in most

public libraries"                                                       1"46).threTeh,eanldeasatt   number
connoted by the                                                                                    the time
5                  wo(rvdol".        p.
                               several
                    I,
                           I

                                            is
Mr. Mozley wrote, the volumes had published occupied

                                                                    49

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

21 inches, or less than a fifth. Picturesqueness and

vigour are doubtless achieved by over-statements of this
kind, which are common with Mr. Mozley ; but obvi

ously, in many cases, they must be seriously misleading.
Premising this, let me now give sundry passages from his
two series of reminiscences; making, on some of them,

the requisite qualifying comments.
   After introducing his account in the second series by

the statement that " Mr. George Spencer was a consider

able factor in my education, and consequently of myis
being," Mr. Mozley presently says: --ii,

   " Everybody liked him ; but all the elders made the sameI
remark, which was that Mr. Spencer discussed speculative

questions instead of giving the whole, or the most of his

attention to teaching. Not that I ever heard any complaint

as to the results" (vol. p. 145).

   Speaking of 1818-19, during which my father gave
lessons to his brothers and sisters but not to him -- les

sons,   however, at which hea:         was  sometimes present, he
                                       but    was always treat to
goes   on to say --                         it    a
    "                                                      a
I      was indeed an intruder,                if
    I
have a talk with him, all the more there was some dis

agreement. In the Bartholomew holidays of 1821 or 1822,

    went regularly to his house for lessons in Euclid, and

islearnt the two first books, may almost say, better thanII

anything have learnt in my life" (Ibid.).
   " In the lessons at home my recollection of Mr. Spencer

    that he was patient listener as well as good talker,
and that never noticed any want of variety in his topics.
These were ethical and political speculations. When Mr.
Spencer, with his wife, joined our large family circle in

the evening, his talk was perhaps more broken and desul
tory, as tea-table talk apt to be. We very early came to

                              SO

                         PARENTS

which might be pleasant, but could not be very remunerative,
as the only possible means of disseminating his philosophy "
(Ibid., p. 146).

Had my father been a man of independent means, this,

though not very probable, would have been possible;

but considering that he had been born to his occupation

rather than had chosen       it,
                                                    it,
                               and considering that his in

come was derived almost wholly from the supposition

was very wild one.aa
   In his first series of reminiscences Mr. Mozley had de

scribed my father as " strenuous upholder of truth,
                         a
justice, and purity, but without any faith or religiona
whatever, as far as one could see " (vol.
                                                         p. 267). Re
                                             ii,

                                                      I:
ferring in his second series to my protests, he says --

" Mr. Herbert Spencer objects to these words.                    really

think that he had objected that truth, justice, and purity,
           a if
and life spent, with some sacrifice, in inculcating them,

was itself religion in effect, and not without form, being
                                                         a

                                                              I
indeed  a  presence and      power in great town,                should
                                          a

have felt very much moved, even though unable to see my

way to any truer expression of my meaning" (vol.                 ii,  p.

I147)-

      had given to Mr. Mozley quotations from various
letters which yielded clear disproof of his statement, but

had apparently no effect on him his explanation being
                                   it, :
that religion, as he understood included those outward
demonstrations which my father did not make. He had

said --
   :

   " Spencer never recognized any religious authority. He
held that social worship ended inevitably in degradation,
and was fundamentally untruthful and unreal " (First

                               51

                            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Mozley, as he says in his second series, came to the " con

clusion that Mr. Spencer had no religion in the sense I
then attached to that word " (vol.
                                               a ii,  p. 146). This im

plies the belief that without such forms as are used by

most Christians, there can be no substance of Christianity
-- implies the belief that the Quakers, for example, are

not Christians.

   Concerning other opinions of my father here are some

further passages of interest --

   " had derived straight from the elder Spencer constant
I                           is                        I
                                                           a
                         ;                  :
repugnance to all living authority and suspicion of all ordi
nary means of acquiring knowledge. From him had learnt
to believe that what you were simply taught you did not
really learn and that every man who wished to know
things really must rummage them out for himself in all

sorts of ways, the odder, the more out of the way, the more

difficult, all the better." (First Series, vol.       i,       146.)
                                                           p.

Everyone may see, especially from its closing lines, that

this statement should be largely discounted. The truth

which adumbrates that my father in all cases advo
:
cated self help and independent exploration, rather than
  it
passive recipience. The following also requires toning
down --

   " He used to insist on the propriety, indeed the honesty, of
always employing the same word for the same thing, and

not attempting to please the ear of the hearer or the reader

by the use of words not really synonymous as meaning the
same. In this he anticipated the Revisers of the Authorized

version, though not with the same intent." (lb. p. 147.)

Here another passage which but partially true --

   " Mr. George Spencer's philosophy might be materialistic

in its tone and tendency but was ethical, social, and
is

                                                     ;

                                           it is
                                                                                                                              :

                            52

                                               PARENTS

own inner sense. It was abstract, for he had to avoid the

politics of the day, and perhaps had no decided opinions

upon them. I do not remember that he ever touched on the

formation of material existences." (Second Series, vol.

P- 151)
       a
                          is
                                               it

                                                                 a ii,
   My father was pronounced Whig or something more.
If, instead of describing him as having "to avoid the

politics of the day," Mr. Mozley had said that he had

little interest in personal politics, he would have been

right. But his statement wrong as stands. The

following passage, too, though partially correct, needs

good deal of qualification:--

" Institutions, classes, privileges, ranks, honours, and

all like creations of human vanity and ambition, he regarded

as essentially wrong, to be endured indeed, but steadily

counteracted and undermined in order to their final extinc

tion.  should say the only right he accorded to such things
       I

                        is
                               ii,
                                           p.
was that of sufferance, or toleration under the circum

stances." (lb., vol.                           166.)

   That there much truth in this statement, implied      is
by the fact that my father would never take off his hat to
anyone, no matter of what rank, and by the further fact

that he could not be induced to address anyone as     :
" Esquire " or as " Reverend " all his letters were ad

dressed " Mr." While ignoring those forms of Christian
worship which Mr. Mozley thought essential, he did his
best to carry out what he thought Christian principles, in
the direction of class-relations as in other directions. But

his views were less extreme than here asserted for
                      a

                           I
                                I

                                              is

                                                It
                                                                                                      ;
                                                              I
remember that when young man he shook his head at

the anti-monarchical views sometimes uttered.

   One further extract only will give. well illustrates

                                               53

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

weary my father must have been in " having to go over
Euclid day by day for half a century with all sorts of
pupils," he speaks of receiving from him late in life " a
little work likely to surprise anyone not familiar with the

author's character."

" It was entitled ' Inventional Geometry. A Series of

Questions, Problems, and Explanations, intended to famil

iarize the pupil with geometrical conceptions, to exercise his

inventive faculty, and prepare him for Euclid and the higher

mathematics.' This really interesting as well as curious

manual contains about as much labour, difficulty, and scat

tering and shattering of brains, as could conveniently be

condensed into 446 questions, thirty-two pages, and a penny
postage stamp. Most of the questions are considerably more

difficult than any in Euclid." (lb., vol.  ii,

                                                 I
                                           p. 163.)

To show the quality of this representation will, in the

first place, state the fact, observed by myself, that boys

may become so eager in seeking solutions for these prob

lems as to regard their geometry-lesson as the chief treat

in the week.      may add the kindred fact that, among
                  I
girls carried through the system by my father, was not
                            is  is
                                                             it
uncommon for some to ask for problems to solve during

their holidays. Again there the fact that my father's

little book has been adopted in more than one of our

public schools, and widely used in America. And then
comes the still more conclusive fact that Mr. Francis C.

Turner, B. A., who had twice asked me for permission to

issue an edition of the Inventional Geometry in form
                                           I
                                                                  a
better  fitted for use in schools (which    did not grant),
read      eulogistic paper on the system   at the " Oxford
      a

              it
Conference of the Teachers' Guild " in 1893, in which he
                  as " of the greatest value " and contended
described

                                54

            PARENTS

enter into the curricula of all schools in which mathemat

ical studies are begun, and should replace, in the elemen

tary schools, the didactic and unsuggestive teaching of

South Kensington." To which add that Prof. Hudson,

of King's College, London, on the strength of his own
            " agreed entirely                   "
experience                     with Mr. Turner      ;     and that

his opinion was endorsed by two other male teachers and

by three female teachers : no dissent being expressed by

anyone.*
   The origin of the perversions of judgment thus exem

plified in Mr. Mozley, is not difficult to perceive. Under
my father he had been led into independent ways of
thinking, and had carried the ignoring of authority to an
extreme. When he came in contact with the leaders of

the Oxford Movement, whose aim was to re-establish

authority, they presently caused in him a violent revul

sion, and accompanying repugnance to the early influ

ences he had been subject to. In the above opinion of

unauthorized geometry versus authorized geometry, we

see the bias strongly pronounced. It affected all his

views, and necessarily warped his conceptions of my

father's nature and his teaching. Probably he was him

self aware of this, and conscientiously endeavored to

a
                it,

              I;
                         I

                                     aI

                                                                                I,
                                                                                                a

                                                                                                            a
guard against but with only partial success.

   Nevertheless this portrait he has drawn (called cari
cature by his younger brother, the Rev. Arthur Mozley,

also pupil of my father) serves to bring out certain
pronounced traits some of which might have over

looked, and others of which are better indicated by

non-relative than by me.       feel indebted to Mr. Mozley

for furnishing me with so good basis for my own

portrait, to which now pass.                              1893.
     *See The Journal of Education (Supplement) for June

                               55

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

   My father's career as a teacher dated from boyhood --

Ibeginning, suppose, in his father's school ; and he was

not out of his boyhood when he gave private lessons. I

have heard him speak of the pride he felt when, on going
over to Chaddesden Hall, where he had as pupils the
children of Sir Robert Wilmot, he was promoted from a
boy's jacket to a coat. He commenced teaching else
where while still only seventeen ; notably in the family of
the leading physician, Dr. Fox, when but little older than
the young Foxes: the relation then initiated between him
and them being such that throughout life they continued

to call one another by their Christian names. It seems

probable that his natural tendency towards non-coercive
treatment, was accentuated during these early days, when
the attitude of master was scarcely practicable, and the

attitude of friend in a measure necessitated. At any rate

his policy continued always to be thus characterized.
Among illustrations was his method of dealing with
trangressors, during the years in which he carried on a
school in addition to his private teaching. This method
was to form some of the boys into a jury, and to have the
offence investigated in a judicial manner; finally leaving
them to decide on the punishment. The result was that

usually he found it needful to mitigate the sentence. Of
course this conduced to friendly relations between him
and his scholars. The kind of feeling entertained for
him is well shown by the following passage in a letter
from one who had been for some years a private pupil of
his -- Lady White Cooper. She writes: --

    " Looking back on those lessons, the feelings of reverence,
love and gratitude remain, while the special subjects have

vanished from my mind ; but I still possess wonderfully neat

                                                    56

                                     PARENTS

and physics, which at that time I well understood ; and per

haps without much difficulty could re-learn. Mr. Spencer
was remarkable for his calmness, patience, and punctuality;
we used to think he had power over circumstances -- nothing
ever ruffled him--being myself brought up in a strictly evan
gelical school the new ideas he suggested on religious sub
jects were more interesting, and his facility in quoting scrip
ture was evidence of his knowledge of the Bible. He was so
truly sympathetic too, and never though it a trouble to listen
to complaints or grudge time, to help one's little difficulties,
suggesting ideas which seemed to expand as one's own. As

a girl I quite worshipped Mr. Spencer, and shall ever be

grateful to have known and had the friendship of so truly
great and good a man."

    Absolute punctuality in his teaching-appointments was

one of his traits --a trait naturally resulting from that

regard for others' claims which he displayed in all ways.
But while he was punctual in commencing his lessons he
was not so in leaving them off; but, supposing other
engagements permitted, would often continue long be

yond the hour -- a habit which, late in his life, I used to

observe with some annoyance, for he had then no spare

strength to spend. How dominant was the thought of

other's improvement was shown by the fact that, on some

occasions, he gave gratis instruction. A young man of

the artisan class, of whom he had formed a good opinion,
he would invite to come occasionally in the evening, to

receive an informal lesson of one or other kind. I can

recall the faces of three such. This he did though he
ought rather to have been relaxing.

   His sympathy for those of lower position was curi
ously shown by his behaviour to an old Quaker pedlar,
who perambulated the Derbyshire villages, supplying the

                                                   57

   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Derby fell in his rounds, to come to our house for tea

and an hour or two's conversation. Altruistic feeling

was shown, too, in the care of his tenants (he had a num
ber of small houses) whose health he looked after and for
whom he frequently prescribed. Always he would step

out of his way to kick a stone off the pavement lest some

one should trip over it. If he saw boys quarrelling he

stopped to expostulate ; and he could never pass a man

who was ill-treating his horse without trying to make

him behave better.* The wish to advance human wel

fare, taking an impersonal form, sometimes prompted ex

travagant acts. Two instances I well remember. The

Society of Arts brought out an educational microscope at
a low price -- two or three pounds, perhaps. He bought

one of these, though he had no appreciable use for for
                            a

                                 I

                                                               it
                                                                     it,
he was then getting old. When asked why he had done

a  thing he could so ill afford to do, the reply was that he

considered the undertaking very useful one and wished

to encourage it. The other extravagance resulted from
the issue of Dr. Vaughan's work The Age of Great Cities.

He was greatly pleased with this, and, thinking would

do good, he bought three copies to lend about among

friends and others.

   Great firmness in carrying out what he considered to

be right was marked trait.  cannot recall any instance
   a

                      I
                                      I
of yielding. Those unconventionalities in respect to forms

of address and forms of salutation which have named as

   * This reference to his habit of expostulation recalls an anecdote he

told of the reply which once resulted. While he was travelling (between

Derby and Nottingham,  think) there got on to the coach a man who
                       I
                                        58

                                                           a
was half intoxicated. My father entered into conversation with him,

and sought to reform his habit by pointing out the evils resulting from

it. After listening good-temperedly for time the man replied--" Well,

y'see, master, there mun be sum o' all sorts, and I'm o' that sort."

                                        PARENTS

illustrating one of Mr. Mozley's statements, were adhered
to without exception. There were kindred ones in which
he similarly persisted. He never would put on any sign

of mourning, even for father or mother: holding, I be

lieve, that such signs were in so many cases insincere that
they should be discouraged. So was it with his dress in
general. There was no change in it during all that part

of his life which I remember. A style of coat and hat

which satisfied his own tastes in respect of convenience
and appearance, was adhered to throughout all changes
of fashion. Indeed, the thought of any consultation with
his tailor respecting the style of the day, raises in me a
smile by its incongruity. Among various other deviations

from usage I may name his resistance to canvassing at

elections. He disapproved the practice and invariably
refused to give any intimation about his voting. Yet his
persistence in unusual courses of conduct, some of them

(as addressing everyone "Mr.") liable to offend people,

never seemed to produce alienation. Partly because his
suavity was great and partly because his sincerity was
manifest, he was accepted by all on his own terms and
invariably treated with friendliness and courtesy.

   Respecting his intellectual powers something has been
said. Unusual keenness of the senses, which is one factor

in discrimination -- the basis of all intelligence --character
ized him. Joined with quickness of observation and skill
of hand, this gave that artistic faculty I have already
noted. He would have made a first rate portrait-painter,
judging from what little he did without any instruction,
and with scarcely any practice ; for his life was too much
occupied to permit much. The portrait given of him,
made at the age of 28, was taken by the aid of two look

                                                    59

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

sketch, taken in court, of Jeremiah Brandreth, a man
tried for high treason --a sketch afterwards engraved.
That he would have achieved reputation as a sculptor is
also probable, judging from kindred evidences. He did
very little, but that little was good. The delicacy of

manipulation implied by these successes, distinguished

him in various directions, down to small details --even to
the cutting of a pen or pencil, which had a certain ease

and finish about it I never could approach, though I am

not awkward. As an experimental investigator he would

have been admirable, as was often shown when perform
ing electrical and pneumatic experiments for the instruc
tion of his pupils. But that he would have been a corre

spondingly good physical explorer, I am by no means

certain ; for there was a constitutional defect of judgment

about which I shall presently say something. Along with

this trait of manipulative skill may fitly be named the
trait of inventiveness. Though not answering to Mr.

Mozley's exaggerated description, it was doubtless
marked, and while otherwise exercised in small matters

was exercised habitually on his Inventional Geometry.
   Closely associated with his artistic and inventive facul

ties was his ideality. Improvement was his watchword
always and everywhere. One curious manifestation was
his particularity of expression, even in small matters. He

could not despatch a note concerning an appointment
without first writing a rough draft and, after making
erasures and interlineations, copying it. Emendations in

books were prompted by this desire for perfect fitness. I

have a copy of Chambers' Euclid which is full of words
crossed out and marginal substitutions. He thus made
corrections not only where some advantage might pos
sibly result, but exercised his critical faculty on things of

                                              60

WILLIAM GEORGE SPENCER.


PARENTS

no value. One of the concomitants was a partiality for

revising dictionaries. A copy of Walker's, which I have,

is full of amendments. When Webster's came out he

adopted that instead, and has left scarcely a page without
some addition, or some modification of a definition. This

love of ideal completeness not only often caused wasteful
expenditure of time and energy, but in some cases led to
serious evils -- more especially the endless delay over his
Lucid Shorthand.* He never knew when to cease mak
ing alterations in details -- prefixes, affixes, arbitraries,
and ways of writing certain words; and the tendency

thus exemplified in an extreme degree, led to the sacrifice
of large ends to small ends. The photoprint here given

is enlarged from a carte-de-visite, taken when he was over

seventy.

   There remains only to name the one great drawback --

he was not kind to my mother. Exacting and incon
siderate, he did not habitually display that sympathy
which should characterize the marital relation. His uni
form habit of deciding on a course of conduct and per
sisting in it regardless of circumstances, was here
injuriously displayed. He held, for instance, that every

one should speak clearly, and that those who did not

ought to suffer the resulting evil. Hence if he did not

understand some question my mother put, he would re

main silent ; not asking what the question was, and
letting it go unanswered. He continued this course all

through life, notwithstanding its futility : there resulted

no improvement. Of course behaviour variously in

fluenced in analogous ways, tended towards chronic

* The name he chose for it was Legible Shorthand, but when, many
years after his death, I published
                                    iIt,  found that this title had been ap

propriated, and had to choose another.

                                    61

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

alienation. It was not that sympathy was absent, but it
was habitually repressed in pursuance of fixed determina
tions ; for when my mother was unwell there was due
manifestation of tenderness. Indeed, during the closing

years of her life his solicitude about her was great ; and I

believe that the depression caused by his anxiety, joined
perhaps with an awakening to the fact that he had not
been so careful of her as he ought to have been, had
much to do with his death: rendering him less ca
pable of resisting the illness which carried him off in

1866.

   Three causes co-operated in producing this conduct so
much at variance with his usual character. He had a
great deal of that " passion for reforming the world "
ascribed to Shelley ; and, as is implied by Mr. Mozley's
account, was ever thinking either of self-improvement or

of the improvement of others. I doubt not that during

their engagement my mother displayed interest in his
aims -- a factitious interest, prompted by the relation then
existing between them. After marriage she gave little or
no sign of such interest, and my father was doubtless
much disappointed. His disappointment was the greater
because he was not aware that intellectual activity in
women is liable to be diminished after marriage by that
antagonism between individuation and reproduction
everywhere operative throughout the organic world ; and
that hence such intellectual activity as is natural, and still
more that which is artificial, is restrained. The remain
ing cause was that chronic irritability consequent on
his nervous disorder, which set in some two or three
years after marriage and continued during the rest of his
life. Letters show that he was conscious of this abnormal

lack of control over temper ; but, as unhappily I can

                                              62

WILLIAM GEORGE SPENCER.


                                     PARENTS

testify from personal experience, consciousness of such
lack does not exclude the evil or much mitigate it.

    While not ignoring this serious defect (which in the
absence of these causes would probably never have been

manifested) I contemplate my father's nature with much
admiration. On looking round among those I have
known, I cannot find anyone of higher type.

    Concerning my mother, nee Harriet Holmes, in 1794,
the fact first to be named is that no signs were manifest
in her of that small infusion of Huguenot blood and trace
of Hussite blood, along one line of ancestry, which we
have inferred. So far from showing any ingrained non
conformity, she rather displayed an ingrained conformity.
It is true that, brought up as a Wesleyan and adhering to
Wesleyanism throughout life, she might, according to one
understanding of the word, be classed as a nonconformist.
But she simply accepted and retained the beliefs given to
her in early days, and would have similarly accepted and

retained another set of beliefs. I never heard her pass

any criticism on a pulpit-utterance, or express any inde
pendent judgments on religious, ethical, or political ques
tions. Constitutionally she was averse to change. Still,
there may have been a tendency, necessarily small in

amount, of the kind to be expected. In conformity with
the general principle of the limitation of heredity by sex,

it is possible that this tendency manifested itself only in
the males of the line ; or, otherwise, as happens in many
cases, it may have been latent, and ready to be manifested
under fit conditions.

   The engagement between my father and my mother,
extending over a period of six or seven years, was, as be

                                                   63

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

grandmother ; and, during a part of this interval, my

mother, in pursuance of the ideas of filial duty still pre

vailing at that time, broke off the engagement. How it
came to be renewed I do not know ; but most likely the

interdict ceased only when my grandfather's great loss of

property took away my grandmother's chief ground of
opposition. In those days valentines were not, as they

have since become, mere compliments, or else practical

jokes, but were written in all seriousness ; and, among

family papers, I have three written by my father to my
mother --all of them acrostics on her name. The verses

do not show in my father any marked poetic power, nor

are the pictorial decorations by which they are surrounded

as artistic as I should have expected, judging from other

products of his.

When talking, some years ago, to an old lady of eighty

or more, who had known my mother before marriage,

the trait specially named was her sweetness. The por

trait in this volume, reduced from an oil-painting taken

when she was under twenty, is not inconsistent with this

trait ; and I can well believe that it was from the begin

ning conspicuous. Early correspondence and friendships

         as well as conduct throughout later life. In
implied  it,

deed, when trying to recollect display of unamiability,if,
                             a                    it,
                     A
                                    it                 I
                                               a
cannot do so. Generally patient, was but rarely that

she manifested irritation, and then in very moderate
manner --too moderate, indeed, for her submissiveness in

vited aggression.        trait which injuriously co-operated

with this was an utter absence of tact. Unlike women in

general, she was too simple minded to think of ma

noeuvring; or      exceptionally, she attempted   she

showed her cards in an absurd way. Benevolent feeling

was displayed, as by my father, but was less diffused.
                             it

                         64

HARRIET SPENCER.


                                     PARENTS

In him it caused an interest in the welfare of all he came
in contact with; in her it did not show itself so much

towards unknown persons : save, perhaps, in her member
ship of a Dorcas Society throughout life, and in the active

part she took in getting up petitions during the Anti-
Slavery Agitation. The subordination-element of religion

was more dominant in her than in him, and strongly rein
forced the ethical element; so that the sense of duty,
doubly rooted, was very powerful. One result was that
throughout life she perpetually sacrificed herself unduly,

notwithstanding the protests I often made, until she

brought on, during her latter years, a state of chronic
exhaustion.

   Along with these traits went much attention to
religious observances. Obviously in her case, acts of
worship and the anticipations of a happier future accom
panying them, formed a great consolation under the trials
of a life which in itself was not enviable. She well illus
trated the truth, ever to be remembered, that during a
state of the world in which many evils have to be suffered,

the belief in compensations to be hereafter received,

serves to reconcile men to that which they would other
wise not bear. Habits of thought and feeling continued

through many years, had made organic in her the two
dominant ideas of fulfilling domestic obligations and the
ordinances of her creed, and during her last years, when
her faculties had in considerable measure failed, it was
pathetic to see the way in which consciousness oscillated
between the two : each recurring at its appropriate part of

the day. In this volume appears a photoprint enlarged
from a carte-de-visite taken when she was approaching

seventy.

   Of my mother's intellect there is nothing special to be

                 6 65

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

remarked. In letters written to my father during their
long engagement, there are passages showing grace of
thought and grace of expression. During all those years
throughout which her mental manifestations were known
to me, circumstances did not favour display of her natural
powers, and justice was not done to them. There is
ground for believing that she had a sound judgment in
respect of ordinary affairs--sounder than my father's.
This may have been consequent on that aversion to
schemes of every kind, caused by distressing experiences ;
for her father, as well as her husband, and sundry of his
brothers, had variously suffered from speculative courses.
An attitude of opposition to enterprise, joined as it
would be with the assigning of difficulties and the expres
sion of scepticism, would naturally give the appearance of
judicial-mindedness. My own proceedings and plans she

always criticized discouragingly, and urged the adoption

of some commonplace career. In nearly all cases her
advice would have been wise ; and it may be that her
natural or acquired way of looking at the affairs of life,
was really a manifestation of good judgment. She had

no interest in nature, and never gathered any scientific
ideas from my father or from me, though truths
pertaining to this or that division of natural knowledge
were frequently matters of conversation. There was,
however, precision of thought in simple things, as was
shown by her style, which in later letters as in earlier
letters was always clear. She understood what consti
tutes a proposition ; and was not in the habit of running
one sentence into another, as very many so-called edu

cated women, and sometimes even men, do. Her reading
furnished, perhaps, the best test of her intellectual tend
encies. Such kind of matter as makes up Chambers'

                                              66

HARRIET SPENCER, nee HOLMES.


                                    PARENTS

Journal, interested her--articles of popular information
alternating with short stories. Throughout the earlier
part of her life she never read novels ; being prevented by

her ascetic creed, which practically interdicted pleasur

able occupations at large. But in later life I think she
read a few, including those of George Eliot. No books
of travels or history or biography were looked at by her ;
nor any poetry, unless, indeed, fragments of religious
poetry. That she knew some of my essays I gather
indirectly, though I have no recollection that she ever

spoke about them ; but my larger works were not, I be

lieve, attempted, or if attempted were promptly given up
as incomprehensible. Probably besides the difficulties
they presented, the consciousness of their divergence
from the beaten track repelled her; for, as already im
plied, she was essentially conservative. In this the con
trast between her and my father was very strong. While
he remained plastic to the end of his life-- so plastic that

he changed his religious opinions after he was seventy,
her mind finished its development by the time she was five
and twenty, and thereafter she never modified her views.

    Briefly characterized, she was of ordinary intelligence

and of high moral nature --a moral nature of which the

deficiency was the reverse of that commonly to be ob
served: she was not sufficiently self-asserting: altruism
was too little qualified by egoism. The familiar truth
that we fail properly to value the good things we have,
and duly appreciate them only when they are gone, is here
well illustrated. She was never sufficiently prized.
Among those aspects of life which in old age incline the
thoughts towards pessimism, a conspicuous one is the
disproportioning of rewards to merits. Speaking broadly,

                                                    67

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY
little and get much and those who deserve much and get
little. My mother belonged to the last class ; and it is a

source of unceasing regret with me that I did not do more

to prevent her inclusion in this class.

                                                  68

        PART I.

  I. Childhood.
 II. Boyhood.
III. A Journey and a Flight.
IV. Youth at Hinton.
 V. A False Start.


                         CHAPTER I.

                                 CHILDHOOD.

                   1820 -- 1827. Mr. 1 --7.

  Early in 18 19, when my father, William George

Spencer, then about 29, married Harriet Holmes my
mother, then about 25, he occupied No. 12 Exeter Row,
Derby. At that time the house was new; forming one
member of a street partially built on one side only; and
its small garden was separated by a meadow from the
river Derwent, on the other side of which lay the mass
of the town. Now, however, swallowed up by increas
ing suburbs and enveloped in the smoke of factories and
foundries, the house has become decayed and dingy.

   Here I was born on the 27th of April, 1820. Save a

reference to my protests against things in general, such
as are usually made by infants on first acquaintance with
them, the earliest mention of me in the family corre
spondence occurs on June 1, in a passage concerning my
baptism. To his brother Thomas, who had recently
taken orders, my father writes: --

   " You say you hope the child has been baptized at Church.
He has not yet been baptized at all. With regard to his

being baptized at Church, I object to the system of Godfathers

and Godmothers, and to the sentiments inculcated in the form,

                                                          71

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1820-1827

objections have originated the delay. If by baptism is meant

any more than a devoting of the child to God, I object to the
baptism of infants, as absurd. And unless a clergyman could

feel himself satisfied in refraining from the form except that

part ' I baptize thee/ &c. I should not feel at liberty to employ

one on the occasion. . . . However there is one alterna

tive which remains with you to approve ; that is for you to
perform the ceremony when you visit us in September. The

name we call him at present is Frederic, but we are unde

cided between that and Herbert."

   There are subsequent letters discussing choice of

name; and on the back of one of them I find, in my

father's hand, various combinations which he tried. He

was a man guided always by independent judgment

rather than by custom; and one of the things he in

veighed against was the repetition of family names : hold

ing, as he did quite rightly, that a name being used for

the purpose of identification, it is foolish, for the sake of

a sentimental fancy, to introduce confusion by repeating
the Christian names of parents or other relatives. The

final choice of the name Herbert was due to an occur

rence of the preceding year. While still at college my

uncle had sent, in a letter to my father, a copy of some

verses by a recently-deceased young poet named Her
bert Knowles.* My uncle's admiration of them was, I

believe, shared by my father; and, as I learnt in after

years, this led to the choice of the name Herbert for me.

But my father's preference was, I suspect, in large meas

ure due to the consideration that being uncommon (for
though now not rare it was then very rare) it would be
thoroughly distinctive.

  I* never saw them anywhere in print, until I met with them in an

anthology made by Emerson some few years before his death.

                                                    72

JEt. 1-7]  CHILDHOOD

   Of incidents in childhood my remembrances have as

sumed that secondary form which I suspect they mostly
do in advanced life-- I simply remember that I once re

membered. There was a little sister, Louisa, a year my
junior, who died at two years old; and playing with her
in the garden left faint pictures which long sur
vived.* There also survived for many years, recollec

tions of getting lost in the town, into which I had wan
dered to find the house of some friends to whom I was at

tached: the result being that the crier was sent round to

find me. My most vivid childish recollection, however,
worth mentioning because of its psychological interest,
is that of certain results caused in me by being left alone
for the first time. Everyone was out save the nurse, who

had been left in charge of me; and she presently seized

the occasion to go out too, locking up the house and
leaving me by myself. On one evening every week,
which happened to be the evening in question, it was

the custom to ring a peal on the bells of the chief church

in Derby, All Saints'; and while I was suffering the

agonies of this first experience of solitude, its bells
were merrily going. The effect was to establish in

me so strong an association, that all through the ear

lier part of my life, and even in adult years, I never

heard these bells without a feeling of sadness coming

over me.
    No. 12 Exeter Row (now No. 27 Exeter Street) re

mained our abode until I was four years old. Before

turning to the subsequent part of my childhood, passed

elsewhere, some parenthetic explanations are needed.

   * There followed five other children, none of whom lived more than a
week or ten days. It was one of my misfortunes to have no brothers,
and a still greater misfortune to have no sisters.

                                                    73

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1820-1827

   Besides carrying on a school, which my father did for
several years before his marriage and for some years
after, he gave private lessons. When he was still a boy
he taught the children of Sir R. Wilmot of Chaddesden
near Derby ; and he began later, and continued for many
years, to teach more especially in two families in the
town. The one was that of the leading physician, Dr.
Fox, in which he commenced giving lessons at the age
of 17, when but little older than his pupils. Each of

these, naturally clever, had in adult life an element of
distinction about him; and one of them, Charles, who

became an engineer, eventually acquired fame as the de
signer of the Great Exhibition building of 1851, and
was knighted. The other family was that of the Mozleys,

two members of which were in after years well known--
one of them James, canon of Worcester and author of
Eight Lectures on Miracles and several other works; the

other of them Thomas, named in the last chapter, author
of various works ; to whom should be added Miss Anne
Mozley, also an author of some mark. And another
pupil was Thomas Rymer Jones, long the Professor of

Zoology at King's College, London.
   Engaged as my father thus was in private teaching

when not in his school, and having in addition the duties
of honorary secretary to the Derby Philosophical So
ciety, he eventually overworked himself. In his later

life, I have heard him express his astonishment on recol

lecting what he did when a young man. There was no
pressing need for this undue application. Already he
had accumulated a good deal; as was shown by the fact
that he purchased thirteen small houses belonging to
his father-in-law, and had still a considerable amount of

74

Ex. 1-7I  CHILDHOOD

anxious to fulfil his duties to those dependent on him;

and the result was a break-down in health which, be

sides incapacitating him for the discharge of these duties

(wholly for a time and partially afterwards) made his
days during a long period, comparatively painful, and

produced a mental state unfavourable to domestic life.

His disorder, beginning with head-aches in 1821 and
getting gradually worse, with intervals of improvement
during his vacations, became at length very grave: a dis
tressing complication of physical derangements, being
joined with an extreme nervous irritability. Answering
an invitation from his brother Thomas in December
1823, he says: --

  " I fear if I should be able to reach your parsonage, that I

shall tire you with my petulance and irritability. I have at
times scarcely any command over my feelings --they carry
me away before I am aware."

   I doubt not that had he retained good health, my

early education would have been much better than it
was; for not only did his state of body and mind pre

vent him from paying as much attention to my intel

lectual culture as he doubtless wished, but irritability

and depression checked that geniality of behaviour
which fosters the affections and brings out in children
the higher traits of nature. There are many whose lives
would have been happier, had their parents been more
careful about themselves and less anxious to provide
for others.

   So profoundly was my father's health finally under
mined that he was compelled to give up teaching. He
took a house at New Radford near Nottingham, on what

          75

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1820-1827

 to a tract of wild land. Here I spent the remaining part

  of my childhood.

    I have still vivid recollections of the delight of ram

 bling among the gorse bushes, which at that early age
 towered above my head. There was a certain charm of

 adventure in exploring the narrow turf-covered tracks
 running hither and thither into all their nooks, and now
 and then coming out in unexpected places, or being

 stopped by a deep sandy chasm made by carts going to
 the sand-pits. Then there were the blue-bells to be

 picked from among the prickly branches, which were
 here and there flecked with fragments of wool left by
 passing sheep. In adult life it requires an effort to recall
 even faintly that more imposing aspect which the world

 has to children, caused by the relative largeness of ob

 jects and the greater proximity of the eyes to things on

 the ground.

    My father allowed me to pass the greater part of this
period without the ordinary lesson-learning. I believe

he thought that I was not constitutionally strong. My

 mother had been delicate as a child; and possibly join

 ing that fact with direct indications, he concluded that I

 ought not to be subject to school-discipline at an early
 age : his own break-down in health from overwork, doubt

less tending to increase his caution. I probably had then,

 as ever afterwards, a repugnance to rote-learning; which

accounts, I believe, for much which he ascribes to other

 causes. Among his papers are some memoranda, made,
 however, late in life, written not very legibly or coher

 ently, concerning these early days. Here are some ex
 tracts :--

   " One day when a very little child, I noticed as he was

76

JEt. 1-17]  CHILDHOOD

Herbert what are you laughing at, he said ' I was thinking
how it would have been if there had been nothing besides

myself.' "

   I do not know that there was anything special in this;

for intelligent children soon begin to puzzle themselves
and their seniors by ontological questions. The follow

ing extract I give only because it indicates my father's

general ideas of early education.

   " In teaching him his letters, which I began to do when

about 4 years old by beginning with the capitals and cutting
them out in paper for him, although he learned a certain
number of them with ease, perceiving he did not ask to learn
any more, nor even to renew his knowledge of those he had

learned, I ceased to invite him."

  Of course it resulted that I was very much behind

most children. An unpleasant proof still survives in my

memory. A daughter of a friend of my father, consider

ably my junior, who had learned to read, was held up to

me reproachingly as an example.

   My father's compulsory abandonment of teaching and
migration to Nottingham, were simultaneous with his
entrance into the lace-manufacture. The production of

lace by machinery was at that time a novelty. Great

profits were being made, and a mania resulted. I per

ceive by letters that, along with two of his brothers, he

had, before leaving Derby, bought lace-machines ; and
as Nottingham was the seat of the new industry, this en
terprise was probably influential in determining his
removal to Forest Side, which was, however, recom

mended for its salubrity. Like many others who were

tempted to invest capital in the business, my father did

            77

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1820-27

the rush of many persons into a highly-profitable occu
pation, invariably brings about a reaction -- a depression
equivalent to the previous exaltation, and a consequent
loss to the sanguine. The reaction set in soon after he
joined in the manufacture. The production of lace be
came excessive; the profits fell very greatly; and he

eventually lost a considerable sum.
   Having during three years' residence at Forest Side

partially recovered his health, and being obliged by this
depressed condition of the lace-manufacture to change
his course, my father recommenced teaching at Derby:

going for a time backwards and forwards. His health
did not permit him to resume his school; and he had
then, and always thereafter, to content himself with

giving private lessons. By and bye, his engagements
growing more numerous, he gave up the house at Forest

Side and returned to Derby. This occurred when I was

a little over seven years old.

78

                        CHAPTER II.

                                    BOYHOOD.

                    1827--33. Mr. 7--13.

   The house taken by my father on his return to Derby
in 1827-- the house in which he continued to live during
the rest of his life, and which remained nominally my
home until my mother's death in 1867, -- was No. 8
Wilmot Street: re-numbered 17, and finally 31. At that
time its neighbourhood differed widely from that now
existing. It was one of a newly-built row, forming butfc
fragment of one side of Wilmot Street. Opposite was a
large unoccupied space over which the town was seen;

and behind stretched fields, instead of the streets and
detached villas which now cover the surface. Not only
the immediate surroundings are transformed, but also
the region further away, where my boyish excursions
were made, has had its rural beauty changed into the

ugliness of a manufacturing suburb. Places where I

gathered flowers and gazed with interest at the catkins
of the hazel, have now become places covered with iron
works, where steam hammers make their perpetual
thuds, and through which railway-sidings everywhere

Iramify. Quiet lanes in which, during early boyhood,

went with a companion trying to catch minnows with a
hand-net in a clear little stream running by the hedge,

                                                    79

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

 allotments, with scattered houses built by artizans. And
 where I picked blackberries, factories now stand.

     My life as a boy continued for some time to be com-
1 paratively unrestrained : school-drill being almost nom
inal, and no very effectual control being exercised over
I me in other respects. My father, I suspect, still thought

  that my health would not bear much intellectual strain;
 and refrained from pressing me. There was a garden of
  some size behind the house containing fruit trees, and
  permitting a certain amount of floriculture; and my

  father rented an additional piece of land close by as a

 vegetable-garden. Not unfrequently I had to join in
 gardening--more frequently, indeed, than I liked. Often

 when I ought to have been busy at some task which my
 father had set me, I was otherwise occupied --throwing

  stones at the birds that settled on the walls and hedges;

 observing the bees on the kidney-bean-flowers, piercing

  the base of each corolla to reach the honey; or, at a

 disused pump-trough containing stagnant water, watch
  ing the larvae of the gnats as they came wriggling to the
  surface, putting out their tails to breathe, and then de

  scending. Most children are instinctively naturalists,
  and were they encouraged would readily pass from care
 less observations to careful and deliberate ones. My

 father was wise in such matters; and I was not simply

  allowed but encouraged to enter on natural history.
     The majority of my activities, however, were those of

  the ordinary school-boy, who, on Saturday afternoons
  and the like occasions of leisure, is commonly given to

  country rambles and the search for hedge-side treasures.

  During my early years the neighbouring regions of
  Osmaston and Normanton, were explored by me in all

80

/Et 7-13]  BOYHOOD

of expeditions, now in the spring seeking birds' nests,
now gathering violets or dog-roses, and later in the year

collecting sometimes mushrooms, sometimes blackber

ries, sometimes hips and haws, crab-apples and other
wild products. Beyond the pleasurable exercise and the
gratification to my love of adventure, there was gained
during these excursions much miscellaneous knowledge

of things, and the perceptions were beneficially disci
plined. Of all the occupations, however, to which holi

days were devoted, I delighted most in fishing. There

was the river Derwent, at that time not the black, dirty

stream it is now, but tolerably clear and containing a
fair supply of various fish; and there were the canals,
which on the whole served better for boys' fishing.

Many happy half-days, and, during the midsummer
holidays, many whole days, were spent on their banks.
Along with such exercise of skill as fishing itself implies,
there came the exercise of skill in making fishing tackle;

for I was not so amply furnished with pocket-money
that I could buy all the appliances I required. I was, I

suspect, led by my father in that case as in other cases,

to use my own powers of manipulation for satisfying my

needs. I made my own floats, and also " hair-tackles,"
as they were locally called -- each some six feet of the

line next the hook, made of single horse-hair instead of

silk-worm gut. I remember I was cautious and sys

tematic enough to use a test weight before trusting any
one of them.

  A friendship formed by my father conduced greatly to

gratification of this love of fishing, as well as to other
gratifications. In the retired village of Ingleby, about

seven miles from Derby, had lived, in a preceding gen
eration, a wealthy farmer named Ordish, whose sons

                     7 81

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  (1827-33

had, during their early days, notwithstanding the great

difficulties which at that time stood in the way, acquired

a little scientific knowledge --a family of youths who,

after their day's work on the farm, would walk over to

Derby to a lecture (then a rare thing) and walk back
again. The eldest of these sons, Edward, was at the time
I refer to, the tenant of the paternal farm. He was full
of ingenuities: having introduced modified forms of

farming tools, all scientific in their conception; and
among other original devices had a string from his bed

side to the house-clock, by pulling which he made the
clock repeat the last hour struck. The incident which
made him known to my father, was that he had in some
way preserved the amnion of a calf in a state of tolerable

completeness, and after having, I suppose, united the

edges of the ruptured part, had inflated it with hydro

gen : the result being that it was capable of carrying up a
penknife. He brought over this novel balloon to exhibit
to the members of the Derby Philosophical Society.
When my father was taken ill, Mr. Ordish invited him to

stay at Ingleby; and this led to frequent intercourse.
Immense pleaures were brought to me by parts of my
midsummer and Christmas holidays spent there. To a

town-bred boy a farm-house and its surroundings afford

intense enjoyment by presenting many novelties of kinds

appealing to his various tastes: -- animals, gardens, or
chards, implements, hay-making. Much gratification,
too, was yielded to my love for natural beauty. Some

wooded precipitous ground a quarter of a mile away,
called Gill's Hill, and a romantic place further off called
Anchor-church, reputed to be an ancient hermitage cut
out of the rock, impressed me much. And then there

82

Mt. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

which are ever brought back to me by the note of a cer

tain bird which I heard there for the first time. But

above all there was the adjacent river. Ingleby is on
the banks of the Trent; and between the water and Mr.

Ordish's orchard was scarcely a stone's throw. There

during my visits, was afforded the delight of unlimited

fishing. This I pursued with ardour during the long

summer days. In a letter my mother referring to the

enthusiasm I displayed says: -- " I understand he was up
by four o'clock in the morning; " and I did not cease in
the evening till I could no longer see.

   When I was something like nine or ten years old, the
love of this sport led very nearly to loss of life. I fell into

deep water in the Derwent and was close upon drown
ing. It is a curious fact that whereas dreams are, while

in progress, regarded as real, the reality was in this case
taken for a dream. During the first part of my immer

sion I thought to myself -- " Oh, it is all a dream! "; and

only after coming to the surface once or twice discov

ered that I was actually in the water. A youth of some
sixteen or seventeen plunged in and rescued me. His

name was George Holme. He was at that time a mill-
manager. As may be inferred from the fact that he was

the one out of a considerable number of spectators who
risked himself to save me, he was of superior nature
morally; and he turned out in after life to be also a man

of much faculty. Gradually rising he became a wealthy

manufacturer; and was led, by the development of his

business, to establish trade-connexions in various parts

of the world --one being pushed even into Central Asia.

When sixty he became mayor of Derby and magistrate.

He had in a high degree that which another friend of

           83

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY      [1827-33

which experience tells him is quite special, and may or

may not accompany other superiorities.

Of out-door activities there was one, indirectly re

faecrtreerd--tIo   already,  which partook of an intellectual char
                  mean the    pursuit of entomology. Incidentally,

and without any form of teaching, my father led me into

this. A considerable number of the more conspicuous
lepidoptera common around Derby, I reared from their

caterpillar stages to their final transformations. Hence

arose a great and continual gratification. Saturday af

ternoons and other times were spent in exploring banks,

hedges, and trees, in search of larvae; and I made in

course of time a considerable collection of moths, but

terflies, dragon-flies, beetles. So enthusiastic was I that
at one time I sallied out at six o'clock in the morning in

pursuit of these natural history treasures. My father
encouraged me to make drawings of the insects I caught

or reared: there being, under these circumstances, an

extra incentive arising from the fact that the objects rep
resented were of my own acquisition. In some cases I

added descriptions of them. There still exists among the

early products preserved by my father, a curious ex

ample. Having made a drawing on a small piece of

paper, leaving no space for writing, I have, I see,

stitched to it another piece with an account of what
seemed to me a remarkable anomaly -- namely that a

moth coming out of a chrysalis I had kept, had no wings:

the fact being, I suppose, that it was a female naturally

wingless or with rudimentary wings. Butterflies are

very good objects for first drawing lessons; since they

present little more than colours on a flat surface, and thus

differ comparatively little from copies. Moreover the

                             84

/Et. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

the process of colouring, which is the part most delight

ful to children.

  Initiated thus naturally, I practised drawing all

through boyhood to a greater or less extent: working

energetically for a time; then tiring and abandoning

it; then after an interval discovering on resuming it

how much better I drew than before: one of those

effects of the normal spontaneous development of the

nervous system in progressing towards its adult struc

ture, which is too much ignored in interpreting psycho

logical phenomena. I may add that my father disap

proved wholly of drawing from copies ; and such things

as were not drawn by me from fancy were drawn from

nature. After a time, when my skill had sufficiently in

creased, I commenced making sketches out of doors.

There was in the house a sketching-apparatus in the

shape of a walking-stick camp-stool, on which a board
Icould be mounted ; and this I was allowed to use.
                                                    re

member how proudly I sallied out with it to make my

first sketch. At the same time, half as amusement half

as culture, I was induced to make models. One I re

member was of a castellated ruin formed of bits of cork

glued together and sanded over; and another was a

small chair. These occupations, however, were not pur

sued with much perseverance.

  Turning to more purely intellectual amusements, I

may here name the fact that I was in boyhood extremely

prone to castle-building--a habit which continued

throughout youth and into mature life: finally passing,

I suppose, into the dwelling on schemes more or less

practicable. In early days the habit was such that on

going to bed, it was a source of satisfaction to me to

            85

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                 [1827-33

dwell on the fancies which at the time occupied me ; and

frequently next morning, on awaking, I was vexed with
myself because I had gone to sleep before I had revelled

in my imaginations as much as I had intended. Often

these dreams, becoming literally day-dreams, quite filled

my consciousness when walking. Even in the streets my

state of abstraction was such that I occasionally talked
aloud as I went along: a fact of which I was from time to

time made aware by people who turned to look at me.

But the strangest instance exhibiting such absorption

was this. I had been sent into the town on some com

mission; got as usual into a train of imaginary adven

tures ; walked through the main streets and suburbs into

the country on the other side of the town; eventually

came to myself and remembered what I had been sent

Iout for; turned round and walked back through the
town; and arrived at the door of our house before again

coming to myself and again recalling my errand.  be-

lieve it is a general belief that castle-building is detri

mental; but I am by no means sure that this is so. In
moderation I regard it as beneficial. It is a play of the

constructive imagination, and without constructive im

agination there can be no high achievement. I believe
that the love I then had for it arose from the spontane

ous activity of powers which in future life became instru

mental to higher things. And here let me remark in

passing on an accompanying trait. The tendency to ab

sorption above illustrated, was, I suspect, a part cause of

a peculiarity with which my father often reproached me

in the words -- " As usual, Herbert, thinking only of one

thing at a time." This liability to become so engrossed

in one subject, or aspect of a subject, as to ouite forget

others, led in after-life to sundry disasters.

86

Mr. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

   Along with this passion for castle-building may natuthis

rally be named the reading of fiction. As already said, III
                  I
was not early forced to learn lessons; and the result of
                          I
       absence of pressure was that did not read tolerablyI
  until was over seven years old. The first book which
prompted me to read of my own accord was Sandford          I
and Merton. Once having got over the difficulties be
lieve went on with considerable zest, and needed no
further stimulus. There were restrictions in certain di

rections; for my father did not approve of fiction. His as
cetic bringing up had, think, warped his judgment in
this respect; and knew nothing in early days of those

stories with which children commonly become familiar.
Besides looking coldly on works of imagination in gen
eral (not however on poetry) he was critical regarding
the moral implications of children's stories: disapprov

ing of the tacit teaching contained in many of them.
   was allowed few nursery books, and those only when

he had been through them and effectually erased those
parts the tendency of which he did not approve. Later,
when the taste for novels arose, had to gratify by
stealth. My mother was even more averse than he was
to literature of this kind; and though novel-reading
was not positively forbidden, there were impediments in
the way of it. But having once experienced its pleas
ures, my appetite for became great and there was

time when such occasional pence as could spare went
to circulating library stocked with old romances, such

as The Castle of Otranto, the stories of Mrs. Radcliffe,

and the like. These were read in secret, sometimes with

   companion. Presently began to read in bed; and in
summer often went on till the birds were singing in the
aI
       a
                                       it

                              I
                                         I

                                                 I;

                                                                                          it

                                                                                                                         a

           87

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

ered, and my mother adopted the precaution of coming

to my room to see whether the candle was out. But I

was not thus to be balked of my midnight gratification,

and soon out-manceuvred her. Close to my bed-side

was a fixed corner cupboard; and habitually, when I
heard her step on the stairs, I leaped out of bed, put

the candle still burning into this cupboard, got into bed

again and pretended to be asleep, until she, thinking all

was as it should be, retired. Whereupon I brought out
the candle and resumed my reading. There still, I sup

pose, exist, or at least there did exist up to 1867, a num

ber of black marks made on the under side of one of the

shelves of this cupboard by candle flames during these

intervals. This must have been when I was about eleven

or twelve.

From this account of my surroundings and amuse

ments in boyhood,   and this delineation of certain implied
                    to what has to be said more specifi
traits, I may pass
                    my nature at that time -- physical,
cally concerning

moral, and intellectual.

  As I had not been injudiciously pressed or consider

ably taxed during childhood and afterwards, my health

was, or had become, quite satisfactory. I can recall

nothing more than a few days' illness from one of the

disorders of childhood; and on the whole my vigour,

though not great, was considerable. There seemed to

be then, and continued thereafter, a constitution dis

tinguished rather by good balance than by great vital ac

tivity. No spontaneous overflow of energy was exhibited

--no high pressure of steam; and hence a certain reluc

tance to exertion in the absence of a strong motive.
Nevertheless there was a large margin of latent power --

JEt. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

a good deal of " bottom " as the sporting people call

it. In feats of strength I do not remember any superi
ority except in running. I was more fleet than any of

my school-fellows. This may have been associated with

an unusual length of limb, by which in boyhood I was
characterized. It seems not improbable that this phys

ical trait had something to do with the performance of
a great feat in walking during later boybood, which will

be narrated presently.

   Respecting those emotional characteristics directly

associated with the physical, I may note that on the
whole I was decidedly peaceful. This may have been in
part due to the trait which I inherited from my father --

a great intolerance of painful feelings, either physical or
moral. Natures differ much in respect to endurance, as

we see on comparing savage and civilized. The callous
ness shown by some of the uncivilized astonishes travel
lers who witness it; and obviously the degree of sensi

tiveness makes a difference in the degree of readiness
with which pain is borne or with which pain is risked.

It may have been that as a boy my peaceableness was in
part due to a reluctance to enter into combats which en
tailed evil of this kind. This was not a uniform trait,

however. When sufficienly aroused by anger, no con
siderations of pain or danger or anything else re

strained me.

    Perhaps the most marked moral trait, and that which I

ran through a variety of manifestations in boyhood andj
afterwards, was the disregard of authority. Of course
one consequence was chronic disobedience. This was a

cause of grief to my mother and of reprobation by my

father; and as, ordinarily, it did not bring on me such
consequences as follow in most cases, it continued not-

            89

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

withstanding perpetual scoldings. The mental nature

thus displayed was, I see, commented upon by my

father. He says of me in the memoranda which he made
late in life:-- " As a boy his aversion to any conduct that

to him seemed to partake of tyranny was excessive." A

concomitant of this trait was, that while greatly averse

to anything like subordination to bigger boys, I was

averse to exercising power over smaller boys : my tend

ency to assert my own freedom going along with sym
pathy for a like freedom in others. And the result was

that while I avoided all companionship which subjected
me to bullying, I was a favourite with those who either

could not, or did not, bully. Though occasionally, but

not frequently, made angry in the course of boyish

sports, my anger was never persistent. This trait was

once oddly exemplified. Having been enraged by a com

panion considerably my inferior in strength, who called

names after me, I threatened him with vengeance when
I should succeed in catching him. After an interval the
time came when he was in my power. I then found my

self not angry enough to wreak the threatened ven

geance; and I actually felt vexed because I had lost the

desire to thrash him.

   It must not be inferred from statements made above
about my fondness for fishing, that I tended towards
cruelty. As compared with most boys I was kind to ani
mals -- never teased domestic creatures and could not
bear to see them teased. And although I was given to

this boyish practice of throwing stones at birds under

the promptings of that love of sport in which triumph of
skill constitutes the chief pleasure, yet in all cases where

there was a manifest infliction of pain without the ele

90

JEt. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

the doings of my companions : always opposing the gra

tuitous injury of creatures around, as in the torturing

of insects for purposes of amusement. Once a compan
ion took me to see an ox killed; but when, having

watched the preparations, I perceived the catastrophe
approaching, I fled. Though I had not much compunc
tion in killing a fish I had caught, witnessing the death

of a large animal was too much for me. It is curious to

what an extent the presence of that emotional gratifica

tion accompanying successful achievement, shuts out the

sympathies for creatures which may be hurt or slain in
the process. Very often one is shown that those who

are in all other relations kind-hearted, nevertheless sac

rifice animals in the course of their amusements with
little compunction. In my own case sympathy did, in

later years, put a check on my love for fishing; and

caused desistance for a long period.

   Concerning intellectual traits as displayed at this age,

I may remark that then, as always, my memory was

rather below par than above, in respect both of quick

ness and permanence. I have frequently heard goodness

of memory ascribed to me ; but my memory could never

have been good, save in respect to certain classes of

things. Of all the novels I read in boyhood and youth,

the greater part have been absolutely forgotten; and of

the rest there are but the faintest traces. It has often

excited my wonder to hear others recall the incidents

and personages of stories they read in early life; and I
have been astonished at the readiness with which they
could quote passages from this or that book or poem. A
related fact is that throughout boyhood, as in after life,

I could not bear prolonged reading. Probably there

then existed as there existed later, an early-reached limit

                                                    91

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

to the receptivity. It was as though my intellctual di

gestive system was comparatively small, and would not

take in heavy meals. Possibly also the tendency then,

as afterwards, towards independent thought, was rela

tively so dominant that I soon became impatient of the

process of taking in the ideas set before me. Novels and

books of travel being excepted, I never read continuous

ly for more than an hour or two. While, however, averse

to lesson-learning and the acquisition of knowledge after

the ordinary routine methods, I was not slow in miscel

laneous acquisition. General information was picked up

by me with considerable facility.

    Passing now from this brief outline of my character,

physical, moral, and intellectual, as exhibited between

the ages of seven and thirteen, let me say something

about the kind of treatment to which I was subjected.
   That disobedience which I have described as being

frequent, naturally led to a state of chronic antagonism.

My misdemeanours did not bring direct punishments, but

commonly brought only reproofs. Hence I was, I sup

pose, often encouraged to transgress by the expectation
of either escaping altogether, or suffering no greater evil

than hard words. My father, unfortunately, while disap
proving of corporal punishment, did not adequately use
a higher kind of discipline. But for his feeble health
and lack of energy after he had fulfilled his daily engage

ments, the state of things might have been very different.

As it happened, I was neither forced into conformity nor

led into it by moral means. Continual reprobation for dis
obedience established a certain kind of alienation; or at

least absence of attachment. Not that there was orig

Iinally a lack of filial feeling; for see by a letter of my

                                                   92

Mi. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

mother that in early childhood I had a great fondness
for my father. But I suspect the irritability and im

patience caused by the ill-health which over-application

had brought on him, tended to prevent the strengthen

ing of those influences which should have served in place

of coercive treatment, and would, I doubt not, have done
so. I may add here, as being significant of my father's

nature, that frequently in his expostulations he set be
fore me the ambition to become " a useful member of

society." This ambition was not much like the ambi

tions ordinarily set before boys. The desire to be bene
ficial to others was predominant with my father; and he
wished to make me also recognize such a desire as a rul
ing one. However, as might have been expected, ad

monitions setting forth achievement of public welfare as

a chief aim in life, fell upon inattentive ears : my age be

ing such that I could not then appreciate the nobility

of it.

   I have named the fact that my father's family, as well

as my mother's, were Wesleyans ; and during my child
hood both parents belonged to the body. It would ap
pear, however, from the remarks made by Mr. Mozley

in his Reminiscences, that even in those days my father
betrayed an incipient alienation from it. The Wesleyan

church discipline was repugnant to a nature such as his ;

and in the course of my boyhood his repugnance became

manifest. I believe that the immediate cause of his final

secession, was his frequent contact with the methodist

ministers on the occasions of the meetings of the meth

odist book-committee, --a committee which managed
the methodist library. Occasionally he tried to get or
dered into their library, books which he regarded as
really instructive--books of science and others of secu-

           93

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

 lar kinds. The aim of the ministers was to increase the

 number of books of the religious class; and especially
those concerning their own sect-- lives of preachers and
the like. Further, he found that in their priestly ca
 pacity they exercised a kind of direction over other

 members of the committee who belonged to their con
 gregations. This he resented more and more. Mean

 while, partly perhaps as an effect of his resentment, he

had been inquiring into the system of the Society of
 Friends : the absence of any priesthood among them be

ing, I suspect, the prompting motive. The result was

that he fell into the habit of going every Sunday morning
to the Quakers' meeting house. Not that he ever

adopted any of their peculiarities, nor, so far as I know,

 any of their special views; but the system was congru
ous to his nature in respect of its complete individual
 ism and absence of ecclesiastical government. He went
there simply for an hour's quiet reflexion. This change
 had a curious result. Not wishing to assume that abso
 lute power over me which should ignore my mother's
 claim, there resulted a compromise; so that from about

ten years of age to thirteen I habitually on Sunday morn

 ing went with him to the Friends' Meeting House and
 in the evening with my mother to the Methodist Chapel.

 I do not know that any marked effect on me followed;

 further, perhaps, than that the alternation tended to en
large my views by presenting me with differences of

 opinion and usage.

   It remains to give an account of the intellectual cul

ture I received during boyhood. My father being un
able personally to conduct my education, I was sent to

94

At. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

Mather. He was a very ordinary mechanical kind of

teacher, who had no power of interesting his pupils in

what they were taught. In repeating lessons I was habit
ually inefficient. Without saying that I never said a les
son correctly, I may say with certainty that if ever I did,
it was very rarely. In ordinary cases punishment would

have followed the degree of carelessness displayed by

me; but I think punishment must have been interdicted

by my father; both because he disapproved of it in itself

and also because he did not wish that I should be over
taxed. Among his memoranda occurs the remark:--
" He was exceedingly unwilling to learn the Latin gram

mar, and with some trouble we found the objection to

consist in its want of system." This may have been in

some measure true; but I think the fact was due in

larger measure to my general aversion to rote-learning,

and also in some degree to my vague dislike of the dog

matic form. The mere authoritative statement that so-

and-so is so-and-so, made without evidence or intelligi

ble reason, seems to have been from the outset consti

tutionally repugnant to me.

   When ten, that is in 1830, I ceased to go to the school

above named, because teaching was resumed by my

uncle William.* He had inherited my grandfather's
school; and carried it on for some years until his health
broke down. After his recovery it was revived; and I
was one of a select number of pupils. His teaching,

partly in consequence of his own superiority and partly

I think in consequence of my father's suggestions, was

  * If he remembers that my father's name was William George Spencer,
the reader will be puzzled by the fact that I had an uncle named William
Spencer. What fancy had led to the repetition of the name William, I

do not know. My father was invariably called George.

                                                   95

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

relatively good, and led to some progress. Among other

unusual exercises for boys in a school, drawing from ob

jects was one: the chairs and tables around, and other

such things being utilized. We were also led by direct

methods to conceptions of the mechanical powers.

From time to time we tried experiments with pulleys

and levers, and so gained by practice an acquaintance

with their properties. At the same time general notions

were given of the causes of these properties. I still re

call one of the propositions frequently repeated by my

uncle William on these occasions -- " What is gained in
power is lost in time." In all matters appealing to rea

son I was tolerably quick; and as I learnt in later days
from one of my school-companions, though I had not

been aware of the fact, was regarded as the leader of the

school in such matters.

  There was, I think, in this education comparatively
little lesson-learning; and, as a consequence, I was not
in continual disgrace. A certain amount of the Greek

Testament was gone through by us after the natural

manner: there being no preliminary discipline in gram

mar. One of the methods of teaching adopted by my

uncle, I suspect at my father's suggestion, was that of
requiring us to make maps from memory -- at that time,
I fancy, a very exceptional method; and in this I ac
quired unusual skill. I had in early days a somewhat re

markable perception of locality and the relations of posi

tion generally, which in later life disappeared. It was
then so great that I look with astonishment at some of

these maps thus drawn.

   My miscellaneous intellectual training apart from

school discipline was favourable. I was a frequent lis

96

JEt. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

our house always got into conversations with my father
of more or less instructive kinds ; now on politics, now
on religion, now on scientific matters, now on questions
of right and wrong. Good opportunities occurred of
obtaining familiarity with certain orders of scientific
truths. My father had an electrical machine and an air-

pump ; and from time to time classes of his pupils came

to see pneumatic and electric phenomena. I had fre

quently to make preparations for the experiments and
aid in performance of them. The result was that being
on many occasions witness to the facts, and hearing the

explanations given, I early gained some knowledge of
physics. Incidentally, too, I was led into chemistry^

One of my duties in preparing for these lectures, was
that of making hydrogen to fill an electrical pistol. The

required process had its sequence; for from the solu
tion of sulphate of iron formed in the act of obtaining

hydrogen from iron filings, I was in the habit of produc

ing afterwards the crystals of that salt. These by their

beauty were attractive; and I sometimes repeated the

experiment from mere love of seeing the result. This
led the way to crystallizations of other salts, and eventu
ally to other chemical experiments. Much damage was

done by letting fall drops of acid upon my clothes; and
occasionally the furniture was somewhat the worse in
consequence of my awkwardness. But, as my father well
knew, these were small evils compared with the value

of the knowledge gathered and the facility of manipu
lation acquired; and he would not have my doings inter

dicted. Little by little I became much interested in

chemistry at large, and read with interest a small book
by an itinerant lecturer named Murray, who at that
time occasionally came to Derby -- a very incompetent

                8 97

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1827-33

man, but one who served to make familiar the simpler

truths.*

   Naturally along with this kind of general discipline,
and along with the tendency to independent thinking,
there came considerable aptitude for interpreting things.

This I am led to remark because on one occasion my

father put to me some question concerning the cause of

an occurrence named; and when, after a pause, I gave
him my explanation, his reply was --" Yes, people who

knew nothing about it would think that clever; but it
is not true." The power thus exemplified of forming a
probable hypothesis from the ensemble of the evidence,
is of course a power which, with inadequate evidence,
leads to erroneous conclusions ; but it is the same power

which, with adequate evidence, leads to correct conclu

sions.

   Along with the advantages of miscellaneous intel

lectual discipline, there were advantages derived from a

miscellaneous supply of literature. My father was hon
orary secretary to the Derby Philosophical Society, --a
society which had been founded by Dr. Darwin a gener

ation before, and was in my father's time fostered by

William Strutt, the father of the late Lord Belper. It

  * I say he was incompetent ; being led to say so partly by an anecdote

my father told respecting him. On one occasion, when lecturing before
the Philosophical Society of Derby, he exhibited the properties of the
then-recently-discovered chloride of nitrogen, or, as it was called, the
"detonating oil of M. Dulong." After expatiating upon its terrific
force, he was about to explode a drop placed in a saucer upon a chair,

when some member of the society interposed with the suggestion that if
its force was so great it might probably damage the chair. To which
Mr. Murray rejoined that there was no such danger, since it was a re

markable peculiarity of the compound that it expended all its force up
wards. Whereupon he proceeded with the experiment and the explosion
blew the chair-bottom out.

                                              98

JEt. 7-13)  BOYHOOD

consisted of the most cultured men of the town, chiefly

medical; and besides a library which it accumulated,

mainly of scientific books, it took in a number of scien

tific periodicals. These were circulated among the score

or so of members constituting the society. Beyond oc

casional works of popular kinds, such as books of travel,
there came works of graver kinds; and there came ha
bitually the Lancet, the British and Foreign Medical Re
view, and the Medico-Chirurgical Review: at that time
two separate quarterly medical journals, both now dead.
Being a member of the committee of the Methodist li
brary; my father also received the several periodicals
taken in by it--the Athenceum, the Mechanics' Magazine,
Chambers's Journal, and some others. These various

periodicals were lying about the house from week to

week, and were more or less utilized by me. The greater

part of their contents I skipped, but read here and there
on all kinds of topics, --mechanical, physical, medical,
anatomical, and so forth. I had the use of the Philo

sophical Society's Library and the Methodist Library.
Moreover there was founded in those days a literary in

stitution after the type of that which Dr. Birkbeck had

established --an institution which, besides furnishing
lectures, formed a library. My father allowed me to
subscribe; and I had from it many books which I could

not get elsewhere. Sundry of them were historical.

How it happened that I had then an appetite for history
I do not know. The epical interest is dominant in early
stages, alike of the individual and of the race; and I had

then more liking for personal narratives and accounts

of striking events, for details of battles and sieges, than

afterwards remained with me. I read the whole of Rol-

            99

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                            [1827-33

cannot recollect when, I read Gibbon. None but the

vaguest ideas of the contents of these books survive.

Here let me sum up the results of my education thus
far -- that
I

                 is,

                             I
             to the age of thirteen.

knew nothing worth mentioning of Latin or Greek:

my acquaintance with Latin being limited to ability to

repeat very imperfectly the declensions and part only
                                                                      a

                                                                                                    ;
of the conjugations (for never got all through them)
and my acquaintance with Greek being such only as was

acquired in the course of word for word translation,

under my uncle William's guidance, of the first few

chapters of the Greek Testament. Moreover                                II  was

wholly uninstructed in English -- using the name in its

technical sense: not word of English grammar had
I
been learned by me, not lesson in composition.                               had
      I
merely the ordinary knowledge of arithmetic; and, be-
                   ayond that, no knowledge of mathematics. Of English
                               a
history nothing; of ancient history little; of ancient
                     I                                          is a
                                                   aliterature in translation nothing; of biography nothing.
                                                        a          I
Concerning things around, however, and their proper

ties, knew good deal more than known by most

boys. My conceptions of physical principles and pro

cesses had considerable clearness; and had fair ac
                                                                      a

quaintance with sundry special phenomena in physics

and chemistry. had also acquired, both by personal ob

servation and by reading, some knowledge of animal life,

and especially of insect life; but no knowledge of bot

any, either popular or systematic. By miscellaneous

reading      little mechanical, medical, anatomical, and

physiological information had been gained; as also                           a

good deal of information about the various parts of the

                                                           100

j£r. 7-13]  BOYHOOD

which formed a set-off against the ignorance of those

things commonly learned by boys.

   Something remains to be named, however. I refer to

the benefit derived from an unusual mental discipline.

My father's method, as already intimated, was that of

self-self-help carried out in all directions. Beyond such

help as I have already exemplified, there was always a

prompting to intellectual self-help.  A constant question     ?  /
                                                              1  I
with him was,-- " I wonder what is    the cause of so-and-
so; " or again, putting it directly to me, -- " Can you tell

the cause of this?" Always the tendency in himself, /

and the tendency strengthened in me, was to regard I

everything as naturally caused; and I doubt not that

while the notion of causation was thus rendered muchy
more definite in me than in most of my age, there was

established a habit of seeking for causes, as well as a

tacit belief in the universality of causation. Along with

this there went absence of all suggestion of the miracu

lous. I do not remember my father ever referring to any
thing as explicable by supernatural agency. I presume

from other evidence that he must at that time have still

accepted the current belief in miracles ; but I never per

ceived any trace of it in his conversation. Certainly, his

remarks about the surrounding world gave no sign of

any other thought than that of uniform natural law.

Let me add that there was on his part no appeal toi

authority as a reason for accepting a belief. That same
independence of judgment which he had himself, he

tended, alike intentionally and unintentionally, to foster

in others; and in me he did it very effectually, whether

with purpose or not. Doubtless it existed innately; but

his discipline strengthened it.

            101

                     CHAPTER III.

                 A JOURNEY AND A FLIGHT.

                         1833. Mr. 13.

  Towards the end of June 1833, shortly after I was 13,
my father and mother and I started from Derby to pay a

visit to my uncle Thomas, at Hinton Charterhouse near

Bath. I have no recollection of the first half-day's jour

ney to Birmingham, save a shadowy notion of passing
through Lichfield ; but the next day's journey left vivid
impressions. There is no day in my life concerning

which I remember so much.

   First among my recollections comes that of the sub
urban villas as we left Birmingham, and the delusive be
lief raised in me that life passed in them must be very

delightful. I recollect next our ascent of the Lickey

hill, and getting off the coach to walk. Then came the
picturesque old town of Bromsgrove, full of half-wooden
houses, where it was market-day ; and shortly afterwards
Droitwich, a somewhat similar town, distinguished, how
ever, by its steaming salt works. Meanwhile the Malvern
Hills had come into view, and were intensely interesting
to me as being the first objects in the nature of moun

Itains I had ever seen ; for though born in Derbyshire

had never been in its picturesque parts. Presently we
arrived at Worcester, clean and cheerful, where for the

                                                   102

iEt. 13I  A JOURNEY AND A FLIGHT

producing county. By and bye Tewkesbury was reached,

with its one long street into which I remember the coach

turning as we passed over the Avon bridge; and then

afterwards Cheltenham, so bright and elegant compared

with such towns as I had seen. The coach-dinner was

there, and we had time to look round. Now came the

ascent of the Costwolds ; and I recall my father's com

ments on the local pronunciation, as the horses walked

up the Leckhampton Hill. Presently passing through
Painswick we reached the vale of Stroud, charmingly

picturesque, and enchanting me by its entire novelty of
character. After that, re-ascending the high table-lands,

we came to Petty-france, followed by the long bare road

to Cold Ashton ; whence we descended into Bath, reaching

it about 8 in the evening. In these days when I hate

travelling, and always choose the train which carries me

with greatest speed and fewest stoppages, it is strange

to look back on that evening and remember that when we

got down from the coach I was so sorry the journey had

come to an end. Twelve hours perpetual seeing had not

satiated me. I was ready for any amount more; and,
indeed, I had a little more, for as we drove to Hinton in
the twilight, I was constantly leaning over the carriage

side and peering down through the deepening shadows

into the valleys about Coomb Down.

   My first day at Hinton was one of great delight, de
rived from all the novelties around me--especially the
new insect life. A ramble in the neighbouring fields on

the bright summer morning, has left an indelible impres
sion caused by the numbers of unfamiliar flowers, butter
flies, and moths. Blue butterflies, of which at home in

          103

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833

there were numbers of Burnet moths, which were previ

ously unknown to me. Subsequent days with wider ex

cursions brought like pleasures. Not long after our

arrival, I discovered a nest of caterpillars of the peacock-
butterfly. I had never seen any before, though I knew
them perfectly from drawings ; and I carried them back
in great glee. I was allowed by my uncle, at my father's

instigation, to make preparations for rearing them ; and

I had already had so much experience that this was an

easy and successful process.

   A few days brought a revelation which disagreeably
astonished me. I had supposed I was about to spend a
month's midsummer holidays ; but I was taken by my

uncle one morning and set down to the first proposition

in Euclid. Having no love of school or of books, this

caused in me great disgust. However there was no

remedy, and I took to the work tolerably well : my faculty

lying more in that direction than in the directions of most

subjects I had dealt with previously. This was signifi
cantly shown before the end of a fortnight ; when I had

reached, perhaps, the middle of the first book. Having

repeated a demonstration after the prescribed manner up

to a certain point, I diverged from it ; and when my uncle
interrupted me, telling me I was wrong, I asked him to

wait a moment, and then finished the demonstration in

my own way : the substituted reasoning being recognized

by him as valid. Nothing further was at that time re

quired of me ; unless, indeed, I name reading. My uncle

condemned my reading as bad in manner (and he was

quite right, for I had then, as ever after, a tendency to

hurry, leading to indistinctness of articulation), but he

remarked upon my extensive acquaintance with words.

104

/Et. 13]  A JOURNEY AND A FLIGHT

no reading lessons. Learning to read, as I have before
pointed out, very late, I afterwards gained my knowledge

of words by reading all kinds of books, and hearing the

conversations around me.

After some four weeks, during which my daily lessons

were occasionally interrupted by excursions made on be

half of my father and mother as visitors, there came the

time for return. Then occurred a revelation still more

startling than the first. I found that I was to remain at

Hinton. It seems that the arrangement had been made

some two months before. In the family correspondence

there is a letter from my uncle to my father, which con
sults him respecting the desirableness of having at Hinton,

his little nephew Henry. The proposal was prompted by

sympathy with his brother Henry, the boy's father ; who

through losses, chiefly in lace-manufacture, had fallen into

straightened circumstances. This letter brought from my

father, or rather from my mother with his approval, a

letter containing a counter-proposal ; namely that he, my

father, should take charge of Henry and educate him,

while I should be taken charge of and educated by my

uncle Thomas. This, as shown by a letter of May 13,

brought from Hinton a cordial assent, as being an ar

rangement which my aunt and uncle much preferred.

  On finding that I was not to return home, my dismay

was great; but there was nothing for it but to submit.

Something like ten days passed in the ordinary routine;

but in the course of that time there were certain incidents

which, apparently trivial, had significant results. Fre

quent disagreements with my fellow-pupil S  had

occurred. I was at that time, as at all times, argumenta

tive; and whatever we were doing together was apt to

                          105

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                     [1833

words. To remedy the evil my uncle decided that we

should study at separate hours: S    in the morning

and I in the afternoon, so that we might be kept apart.

This arrangement, put in force about the last day of July,

brought my discontent to a climax. I had never before

been under anything like so strong a control, and I had

also a yearning for home: a home-sick song popular at

that time, --" Those Evening Bells," --being a continual
solace to me. I was quite prepared to break out into a

rebellious act, and needed only this change which de

prived me of companionship to fix my determination.

As we were lighting our candles on going up to bed that
night, I said to S
                    , referring to the arrangement of
the day,--" It won't happen again."

     The next morning revealed my meaning. Rising soon

after six I started off; having resolved to return home.

Reaching Bath in little more than an hour, and buying

a penny roll just before leaving the city on the other

side, I took the Cheltenham road ; and, as I ascended

the long hill and for some time afterwards, kept glan

cing over my shoulder to see if I was pursued. Pres

ently, getting on to the high broad back of the Cotswold

Hills and increasing my distance from Hinton, I ceased
to fear that I should see the pony-carriage coming when
I turned my head. But now as I walked on under the
hot sun, I began fully to perceive my forlorn state; far

away from anyone I knew, without possibility of going

back, with scarcely any money, and with an immense

journey before me. No wonder I burst into tears from
time to time as I trudged on. However my speed, judg

ing by the result, was not much diminished by the occa

sional fits of grief. Pursuing the monotonous road,

                    106

  &t. 13]      A JOURNEY AND A FLIGHT

  gate, I came in the afternoon to the end of the high

  lands and descended into the Stroud valley; walking

  through its picturesque scenes in a widely different mood

  from that in which I had seen them a few weeks before.

  Reaching Stroud between 5 and 6, I remember asking

  a man on the other side of the town, which was my way

  to Cheltenham. He pointed out the way and said--" But

  you are not going there to-night, are you ? " He would

  have been greatly astonished to hear that I had already

  walked from five miles on the other side of Bath. To

  Cheltenham I did go, however: reachingI suppose,
                                           I iIt,

                                                  Ia
  between and 10 in the evening, and finding small
           a9
  suburban tavern where got bed for sixpence.         had
                       II
                                    a
  only two shillings pocket money, which saw should

  have to make last me during the journey. On that day

  and on succeeding days repeated my occasional pur
  chase of penny roll: twice or thrice during the journey

  stopping to get glass of beer. Bread and water, with; a it
  perhaps three glasses of beer, were the only things
                   a                                  I

  tasted between Hinton and Derby.

aI  could not sleep a wink at Cheltenham. The physical

  excitement produced by walking 48 miles, kept me toss
  ing about till was time to rise. Next morning, how

  ever, early started off again, undismayed by my bad
      I
night.  aI  got ride out of Cheltenham for some two

  miles in cart and then resumed my weary walk, seeing

  from time to time the Malvern Hills, which, when first
                                               I

  caught sight of them the previous evening, had given me
     thrill of pleasure as being old friends. Mile after mile

was traversed during the sultry August day, along roads

thickly covered with dust --through Tewkesbury and

Worcester, on to Droitwich and on to Bromsgrove, which

                       107

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833

that night to Birmingham, but an occurrence deterred

me. While resting some miles beyond Bromsgrove, I

was accosted by one of those wandering Italian image-
sellers, common in my boyhood -- men who went about

carrying on their heads boards covered with plaster casts,
and calling out " Finees I" This man sat down by me ;

and when I walked on he joined me. After a time he

pulled out a large pocket-knife with a blade of some

eight inches long or so, and spoke of it admiringly. This,

as may be imagined, made me shudder. I do not suppose

he meant anything ; but still his act suggested the thought

that he might murder me. Presently we arrived at the

little inn on the Lickey called the Rose and Crown, and I

asked for a bed. Luckily they let me have one, and to my

great delight they would not let the Italian have one. He

had to go on.

   That night, like the preceding one, was sleepless. The

exertion of walking about the same distance as before

( for I believe from Cheltenham to the Rose and Crown is

49 miles, and deducting the 2 in the cart leaves 47) had
maintained that feverish state of body which always

keeps me awake Next morning after a few miles' walk

ing, I came up with one of those heavy wagons, common

in the days before railways, carrying goods between chief
towns -- wagons now no longer seen --great lumbering

vehicles with large hoods to them. I made friends with

the wagoner ; and he let me ride on the soft straw as far

as Birmingham, where he stopped. Thence I walked on
to Lichfield. At Lichfield I happened to be passing the

chief hotel just as the Derby coach drew up ; and. getting
hold of the coachman, told him my story. No doubt he

saw in my worn face and parched lips how much I had

108

Mr. 13]  A JOURNEY AND A FLIGHT

having plenty of room, let me ride for nothing. I asked
to ride as far as Burton. When we reached Burton I
offered him the few coppers I had left to let me go on.

He, good fellow, refused to have them, but allowed me

to keep my seat ; and so I reached Derby about 3 o'clock

in the afternoon of Saturday, having left Hinton on
Thursday morning. That day I had walked not more
than 20 miles, if so much.

   Here, before passing to subsequent incidents, I may
remark on the physical effects of this escapade. It can, I

think, scarcely be doubted that my system received a

detrimental shock. That a boy of 13 should, without any
food but bread and water and two or three glasses of

beer, and without sleep for two nights, walk 48 miles one
day, 47 the next, and some 20 the third, is surprising
enough. It is strange that the exertion was borne at all ;

and it is highly improbable that it was borne without
injury. At an age so far short of maturity, a tax so great

necessarily tells upon the subsequent development. The

cost has to be met somehow ; and is met, no doubt, by

a falling short of ultimate perfection of structure. How

ever, there was no manifest sign of mischief, either then

or during subsequent years.

   As may be imagined, great consternation was caused at

home when I made my appearance. No expectation of

seeing me had arisen, for no letter had arrived. At that
time it took two or three days for a letter to go from
Hinton to Derby ; and some hours had elapsed before
information was given at the parsonage which made it
clear what had become of me. The following is from my

aunt's letter, written not to my father but to my uncle

William, announcing my flight :--

                                                         109

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                           [1833

" Herbert early this morning left us, and without in the

slightest degree considering our feelings ; as not any one in

the house was aware until several hours afterwards of his

having left Hinton. We however heard from a person who

met him before 7 o'clock that he was walking exceedingly
fast, and making the best of his way to Bath ; from whence

we have not the least doubt he intended to proceed to Derby.

But as he may not arrive at home for some days yet, we are

anxious his parents may not hear of this, that they may be

spared the very great anxiety which would be caused by the

thought of so young a creature travelling so long a distance,

friendless and pennyless ! Had there been any cause for

this strange conduct we should not have been so much sur

prised; but nothing in the world has occurred to give him

any reason for such a step. He has been treated with the

greatest kindness, and has not been in any instance pun

ished; indeed he has been much more indulged than before

his Father left us.

   " It is my decided opinion that unless his Parents punish

him severely, and return him again to us immediately, it

will not only be insulting to us, but ruinous to the boy him
       "
self
      !

Later in order of date, though written on the day of my

arrival in Derby, is a letter from my mother to my uncle
and aunt, from which the following is an extract :--

  " I think no one could picture the astonishment and grief I

felt when he walked into the room. His Father was at

Coxbench and did not arrive till ten the same evening, and

was as you will suppose quite overcome, and was a length of

time before he recovered from the tremour it put him into.

Poor Herbert is exceedingly distressed. He weeps very

                                 the confinement to his
much but says he could not help  it,
                                                 is
own room for so many hours was more than he could bear.

He wishes his uncle to be told how sorry he to offend him

          110

JEt. 13]  A JOURNEY AND A FLIGHT

ness whilst he lives. It seems that he wept most of his way
home, and from what I can gather his tears appear to have
been mixed up with those of penitence. I should think it
very likely he will have an illness from walking such a dis
tance with only the support of bread and water. I had given
him on the morning I left Hinton two shillings for the pur

pose of purchasing needles for his insects and any other
little matter he might require. With this sum he reached

home."

   Then after an interval during which come letters from

my aunt and uncle with further comments on my con

duct, there occurs a long letter from my father dated
August 15 ; in which, after speaking of my state as such
that " a little more excitement would have brought on a
brain fever," and after narrating a conversation he had

with me, he continues :--
  " I fear being tiresome, but I have said thus far, that you

may form some idea of the child's feelings. That this des
perate step was taken in part from an overweening desire
to see home and to enjoy the habits of home and the affec

tions of his parents, I can have no doubt, notwithstanding his

silence on the subject whilst with you, might lead to the
thought that he had not much regard for either. Believing

this as I do, and believing too that his bodily frame was
quite in a state of inflammatory action, I confess I durst not
think of sending him back immediately; notwithstanding I

had shortly after the opinion of our dear Anna that a con

trary conduct would be attended with the worst of conse

quences.

   " I might mention in corroberation a journey he once took

to Ingleby, a distance of 7 miles, to see me, without his
mother's knowledge and when he was only 9 years old, and
in the performance of which he ran the greater part of the
way. But these feelings are not peculiar to him. You

          III

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833

whilst at Nottingham, that although my father to comfort

you did what I never knew him to do before or since, go

over on purpose to see you, yet so ungovernable were your
longings after home, that in defiance of all entreaties
you ran after the coach that was taking your father from
you, and compelled them by your importunities to take you
too. This occurrence has also forcibly brought to my mind

the intense feeling you showed when at Quorn on the same

subject, and how repeatedly I used to go over to try to

comfort you, and to act the part of a father to you. Let us

not forget these feelings of our youth, my dear brother.

They are dear to my memory, and I invite you to cherish

them."

   After being more than a fortnight at home, my father

thought me sufficiently recovered to return. I was re

ceived at Hinton very amicably. No mention was made
of the misdemeanour, and things went on as if nothing
had happened : my uncle's plan, however, of separating

S and myself not being repeated.

112

                        CHAPTER IV.

                        YOUTH AT HINTON.

                    1833--36. Mt. 13--16.

   Though Hinton Charterhouse figured in the last chap
ter, no description was given of its character, surround
ings, and society. As a considerable portion of my

youth was passed there, something under these heads
seems called for.

   On the road from Bath to Frome, which is eight miles
further, Hinton stands on the top of one of the higher
tracts in those regions. Though not itself a picturesque
place, it has picturesque places all around. The country
is hilly ; and distant downs of oolite close in the adjacent
valleys. Near at hand, is a beautiful village called Fresh-
ford, on the banks of the Avon, which runs through it to
Bath and finally to Bristol. This was at that time, and
perhaps is now, a place of residence for retired naval and
military officers, and kindred people. Among others, the
Colonel Napier who wrote the History of the Peninsular
War, lived there.

   In the village of Hinton Charterhouse itself, the chief
place was Hinton House, where resided Mrs. Day, of
whom we saw nothing. At one time my uncle visited
there, but some coolness had arisen. There was also
Hinton Abbey --a gothic building of some age with de
tached ruins dating from monkish times. It had long
been the seat of a family named Humphreys, into which

                  9 113

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833-36

a Captain Simmons married ; and his daughter had been

married to my aunt's brother, Mr. Harold Brooke. Hin-
ton Parsonage was situated about a third of a mile from
the village on the way towards Bath. It had been built
by my uncle with funds which, though added to by him
self, were chiefly raised. Ecclesiastically, Hinton had
long been an appendage to the neighbouring parish of
Norton. Centuries had passed since there had been a

resident clergyman. Indeed my uncle was the first since
catholic days ; and by a strange coincidence, his catholic

predecessor bore the same name-- Thomas Spencer.
   At the time I went to Hinton, my uncle was about 36,

and my aunt, I think, about 26. He was a man of ener

getic, strongly-marked character; and, himself exempli
fying the results of successful effort, had a somewhat too

unqualified belief that in all cases those who did not

succeed had themselves to blame. Thoroughly sincere in
his beliefs, he was at the same time much more liberal

than most in the construction he put upon the beliefs of
others. The honours he took at Cambridge show him to

have been intellectually above the average; and he was
not without originality of thought. Indeed he exhibited
a good deal of this, considering the narrowing discipline

he had passed through. Of my aunt, nee Anna Maria

Brooke, I may say that she was a woman of ordinary in

telligence and superior moral nature ; having much
philanthropic feeling, joined with much self-control. She
belonged, as did my uncle, to the evangelical school : he,
when at Cambridge, having been one of the adherents of
Mr. Simeon. She was of Irish-Scotch extraction. Her
grandfather had been at one time governor of St.
Helena ; and her father, a military officer in India, had

died many years before her marriage.

                                                   114

mr. 13-16]    YOUTH AT HINTON

Not much social intercourse was kept up by my uncle

and his wife. He was not a man who made himself

attractive in society. Always absorbed in some one topic

which at the time interested him (usually connected with

public welfare) he was too apt to turn the conversation in
his own direction ; and this trait, joined with absence of
taste for the trivial talk of county dinner-parties, put

him out of sympathy with most of his neighbours:

differences of opinion concerning political and ecclesi

astical questions probably aiding. Hence, excepting rare

exchanges of calls and dinners with some two or three

friends at Freshford, and with connexions at Hinton

Abbey, there were no visits save those to my aunt's

Anglo-Indian relations in Bath, which were frequent.
   My uncle had long been in the habit of taking resident

pupils, generally to prepare them for college. The one to

whom I have already referred as being there at the time I

went to Hinton, was a young Irishman, S  . Unfor

tunately S    was not a desirable companion. Though

five years my senior, his knowledge and ability were not

such as made me feel my inferiority; and hence my

natural independence was fostered rather than repressed.

Moreover, his disposition was none of the best, and our

relations continually tended towards antagonism ; so that

on the whole, an undesirable effect was produced by the

association.

   For some time my life now passed in an uneventful
way. The daily routine was not a trying one. In the

morning Euclid and Latin, in the afternoon commonly

gardening, or sometimes, a walk; and in the evening,

after a little more study, usually of Algebra I think, came

              "5

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833-36

very fond of chess, and acquired some skill. My aversion

to linguistic studies, early shown, still continued. Under

date September 29, 1833, my father writes to me --

    " Certainly you have a taste for composition, and it would

indeed be strange if it should so happen that you should have

a distaste for words of which such composition is formed."

And, writing to my uncle on October 28, he says --

   " What do you conceive he is the most adapted to? Does

he still retain the aversion to Latin that he had? And if he
does, how do you account for it? And will it be well to
yield to it?"

Very different was my attitude towards mathematics. At

about the same date there is mention of demonstrations
made by myself of propositions in the fourth book of
Euclid : not, however, approved by my uncle. Of the

tendency to independent thinking thus illustrated, a very

significant illustration was supplied by a discussion
concerning a question in mechanics. In October, one of

my letters home refers to the reading aloud of Dr.

Arnott's work on Physics (edition of 1833). Among
other subjects the book deals with, is that of inertia; and

a statement respecting it drew forth a demurrer from me.

The following must, I think, be the passage containing
the doctrine to which I could not assent.

   " It is the resistance overcome . . . which is called
the inertia of the mass, or the vis inertia, and sometimes to

help the conception of the student, the stubbornness, sluggish
ness, or inactivity; but no one of these words can originally
suggest to the mind all that is intended to be conveyed." --

Pp. 51-2.

In opposition to this I contended that there could not be a

vis inertia;--that inertia was not a positive force. It

116

/Et. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

than simple passiveness ; and that there could not be in it
any principle of active resistance, as implied by Arnott's

words. My uncle took the view which Arnott appeared

to take, in adopting the word stubbornness as explanatory ;
and my constitutional disregard for authority was shown

by dissenting from the opinions of both. I can still
remember that to illustrate my position, I said that if a

man-of-war could be suspended from the heavens, a push

against the side of it would move it--of course very little.

Naturally my uncle was irritated by my obstinate defence
of my belief ; in presence, too, of my fellow pupil and my
aunt. Certainly it was strange for a boy of thirteen
to display such self-confidence. And it was not only

morally significant as showing how deep-seated was the

tendency to criticize opinions, and to reject those which

did not commend themselves ; but it was significant intel

lectually as showing a quick insight into physical truths.

For I was right in my position, notwithstanding the au

thorities against me.

   The trait of character thus displayed was, I see, shortly

afterwards displayed in another, and less offensive, way.

In a letter to my father dated January 28, 1834, there
occurs the passage :--

  " I forgot to tell you in my last letter that I had made some

problems in Algebra with which my uncle was much pleased,

and as I want something to fill up I will tell you them all."

[Here follow seven algebraic problems, sundry of which
might serve for a beginner.] " My uncle was most pleased
with the 5th of these, which the [he] thought was very
original."

  Correspondence shows that in March, I was learning

French grammar, Greek, and Trigonometry. In both the

             117

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833-36

and what little there was was under pressure. With

Trigonometry I speak as being delighted: sending my
father some solutions of trigonometrical questions. It
was at this time, too, that I sent home a sketch of the

parsonage, which, inartistic enough, was a tolerably good
representation of the house and its surroundings.

   A little before this time, the New Poor Law came into

operation. Previously, my uncle had always been a pau

per's friend : habitually siding with the pauper against the

overseer. But the debates during the passage of the bill

through Parliament, had opened his eyes ; and as soon as
it passed he began to apply its provisions to Hinton, be

fore yet the Bath Union was formed (obtaining, I believe,

authority from the Poor Law Commissioners with whom
he was in communication). His actions in the parish

formed daily topics of conversation ; so that I was per

petually hearing social questions raised and commented

upon.

   Euclid was gone through again at this time; and

mention is made of the fact that I was able to repeat

some of the propositions without the figures: not, as

might be supposed, by rote-learning, but by the process

of mentally picturing the figures and their letters, and

carrying on the demonstrations from the mental pictures.

   The following extracts from letters indicate the results
of the year's training, moral and intellectual. Writing to

my grandmother on June 9, my uncle says of me :--

   " He has not yet attained the power of studying of his own

accord, and if he were at home, it is my opinion he would

not learn as much in a year as he ought to do in a month."

And on June 20, he writes to my father :--
   " At different times during the last few months I should

118

/Et. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

Herbert, had I given them to you. Sometimes I have seen

much that was hopeful and at other times much that was
discouraging. Of his talents there can be no doubt they are
of a very superior order, and when he is under the restrain

ing effect of an observing tutor and all trivial pursuits are
banished from his thoughts, then a calm and grave diligence
in study and cheerful quickness of intellect distinguish all he
does, and one cannot help treating him with an increase of
confidence in manner and that kind of commendation at least

which evident satisfaction with his conduct shews. But the

mischief is that too soon the injurious effects of this are
seen by diminished diligence and modesty. The grand
deficiency in Herbert's natural character is in the principle
of Fear. And it is only so far as his residence with me has
supplied that principle in a degree unusual to him, that after
a few struggles he entirely surrendered himself to obey me
with a promptness & alacrity that would have given you

pleasure to witness ; & the more obedient I have observed
him the more I have refrained from exercising authority.
By Fear, I mean both that ' Fear of the Lord ' which ' is the

beginning of wisdom,' and that fear of Parents, Tutors, &c."

   That the opinions expressed in these extracts were in

large measure true, I have no doubt. I was at that time,

as always before and ever after, very idle unless under
the stimulus of some powerful motive : usually the desire

to compass some large end.

   Towards the close of June, in company with my uncle,

I went to London. Reaching Watford the day after, I

there joined my father and mother who were visiting Mr.

Charles Fox (afterwards Sir Charles Fox) who had in
boyhood been a pupil of my father, and was engaged as
sub-engineer under Mr. Robert Stephenson on the Lon

             119

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                [1833-36

London and North Western), then in course of construc

tion. A pleasant fortnight was passed there : one of the

pleasures being the novel one of feeling myself an object

of parental approval. There was some fishing, too ; for I

had taken my rod on the strength of the conclusion that

the name of the place, Watford, implied a river. Some

interesting days were passed in going with Mr. Fox over

the line, and among other places into the Watford
Itunnel, at that time being pierced. Moreover,
                                                made,

rather I fancy as a task than from liking, a sketch of Mr.

Fox's house in oils : miserable enough artistically but

tolerable as a portrait. This, I remember, my father pre

served, stuck up in his bedroom for many years; though

certainly not because of any decorative value it had.

Another fortnight was spent with friends in London.

Along with the ordinary sights seen was one at that time
not ordinary--the Zoological Gardens ; then a private

collection visited only by fellows of the Zoological Society
or by those they introduced. One of the fellows, Mr. T.

Rymer Jones, afterwards professor at King's College, an

other of my father's old pupils, took us. Beyond the

general impression of the place, then relatively small, I

recall only, by an unaccountable freak of memory, a dis
cussion about going to theatres, between Mr. Jones and
my father -- my father reprobating the practice. He had

not at that time outgrown the puritanical bias of the

family, as, later in life, he did.

  At the close of the holidays I accompanied my parents

home to Derby, and there soon verified my uncle's

prophecy ; as witness the following extract from a letter

of his dated August 14, apparently in response to some
letter from my father :--

120

JEt. 13-16]       YOUTH AT HINTON

has learnt only 24 propositions of 6th book in a fortnight,
when he knows well he could easily learn the whole book
in a week."

Correspondence shows, however, that as some addition to

this small amount of work, I had commenced perspective

under my father's instruction. In this case, as in others,

he adopted the self-help method of teaching. Having

explained what perspective is, using a plate of glass with

an object behindS                and showing me the relations of the
different elements--point of sight, centre of the picture,it,
horizon, and so forth-- he set me to solve each of the
                                ;
successive problems myself.              am not sure when this
                                   I
                                      I
series of lessons came to an end -- whether that year or the

next but remember that went through the whole of
    ;

        II
perspective in this manner.

    When got back to Hinton in October, found there
                                                           I

an additional pupil, Robert        P                       youth of 18 or 19,

                                                    ,

                                                   a

who had been at Harrow, and came to my uncle for
                                                              A

                                                                        a
year before going to India. He had not much more

capacity than                      but was good-humoured.     sen

tence concerning him in letter from my uncle to my
                                   a SP a
father, may fitly be quoted because of the implications       it
contains --                                 it ,
    ,                                            is
    " Anna's cousin Robert:                                very agreeable, polite
                                                        a
  and intelligent young man, so much more gentlemanly thanI

SS  and showing off                     to such disadvantage, that

  Anna and both begin to think the fault was more with

    than with Herbert whenever they disagreed."

   There was now made discovery which brought me

into disgrace, and which, had been made earlier, would
have in great measure negatived the favourable estimate

made of me when went home. An old musket was kept
                  I

                                   121

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833-36

in the house, for safety's sake ; and during the previous

spring I had fallen into the habit of going with this after

small birds about the place, while my uncle and aunt and

S were at Bath. This went on for months and noth

ing transpired. In the autumn after my return, S              ,

who had brought a fowling-piece from home, lent it to

me, and I used this instead of the musket. Not only did I
thus waste my own time, but I sometimes led into idle

ness a young fellow employed as groom and gardener, by

taking him with me. Of course when these facts came out,

there resulted an explosion ; and I was under a cloud for

some time.

   Letters show that in December I was put under more
pressure than previously in respect of the studies I was

averse to. Arrangements were made by my father under

which I had, before given dates, to send him certain
amounts of translations. I continued to be very stupid.
On December 8, my uncle writes :--

   " Herbert sets himself to work in any difficulty in a very

bungling manner; displaying great ignorance of the nature

...of his own language, as well as the Latin. He never knew
much of English Grammar.       I find it much more labori

ous on this account, and also from his very great forgetful-
ness of his Latin Grammar, even in parts that he has

repeated to me."

A letter from him of a previous week contains a passage
which I had not expected to find. He says :--

  " I think he has got a much better notion of construing

Greek. He can only prepare for me a few verses of St.

John ; but what he does prepare he has very accurately,
which is a very important matter."

I am surprised that it was ever possible to say as much

                          122

/Et. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

to be. As to my ignorance of English grammar, my

uncle's statement might have been properly much

stronger. He should have said I knew nothing of Eng
lish grammar. It was one of the things I was excused

from when at school, in consequence of my father's desire

that I should not be pressed. My knowledge of it was

limited to such few words and phrases as occasionally

caught my ears from school-fellows who were saying

their lessons; and as the subject was repugnant to me,

these made on my mind mere mechanical impressions, the

meanings of which I never thought about. The acquaint
ance I gained under pressure with the Latin, Greek, and
French grammars was but small. I never got to the end
of the conjugations in any one of them ; and as to syntax,
not a single rule of any kind was taught me. I believe
one cause for my dislike to language learning was that I

Ithad an aversion to everything purely dogmatic.

seemed as though in all matters statements must be put

before me under forms comprehensible by reason ; or, at

any rate, not under the form of mere assertion. Present
anything as a rule -- No; present it as a principle -- Yes.

These words will briefly express my indifference and in

terest in the two cases. The antithesis is exemplified by

a fact which I have observed of myself when having to
perform calculations. As a boy I was taught the rule of

three ; but it soon faded from my memory. As a boy,

not long after, I was taught the laws of proportion.

These I have remembered ; and now, whenever an arith

metical operation involving the rule of three has to be

performed, I never think of the rule as learnt, but I

deduce my rule afresh from the truth that in any pro

portion the product of the extremes is equal to the

product of the means.

             123

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY          [1833-36

   Shortly after the dates of the above letters, my uncle
visited Derby ; and a letter to me from my father then
written, contains passages worth quoting: --

" The accounts received (since my dear brother's arrival) of

your obedience and desire to oblige, have been highly cheer

ing to our minds ; drooping as they occasionally are under

..."your absence, and under the thought of your future prospects
in life."        Both your uncle and aunt have noticed,

that at certain times, your voice assumes a very unharmo-
               I have repeatedly observed the same thing
..."nious tone.
                     Depend upon it my dear fellow that the
myself."
maker of us all has so ordained the universe, that a kind state

of feeling will be accompanied by a kind tone of voice. And

a kind tone of voice is almost synonymous with a musical

voice. Look around you through nature, and I shall be much
surprised if you don't find the rule general if not universal."

   After his return to Hinton my uncle says concerning
me, in a letter of Jan. 23 :--

   "I have made particular enquiries as to his conduct during
my absence. I find Anna allowed him the 1st week almost

for himself, and particularly observed whether, of his own

accord, he would take up his painting or any other subject

of self-improvement, but was disappointed to find he in no

..."instance did so. Amusement, and reading Chambers's Jour
nal, were the only occupations."  With this exception

of a main spring in this machine, all other things go on well.

He uses in my absence a little dictatorial manner of speaking

           I understand; but as far as I see, he has much
..."to R. P
less of that fault than he formerly had."  Anything

more attentive than his manner to me cannot be imagined ;

but still this stimulus he cannot always have, and if we can

but see some inward principle of action it would be very

cheering."

During the spring of 1835 things appear to have gone

                 124

/Et. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

Before the end of May I had been through the eleventh

book of Euclid and also through " Lectures on Mechan

ics "--either Wood's Mechanics, a text-book in my
uncle's college days, which I certainly went through at

some time, or else the Cambridge Lectures which he had
written down, and which we studied from his MS. Re

ferring to these studies, and giving me a problem to solve,
my father says in a letter of August 4 :--
" Now if you can't answer this and the other questions which

I have sent, I shall think that you have not digested well
what you have already eaten. And I suppose you will agree

with me that without food is well digested, it affords little
or no strength, however nice it may have been in the eating.
Remember, also, that unless a person takes a deal of exercise

they may soon eat more than does them good, although they

may have excellent stomachs. In your next apply these illus

trations to intellectual pursuits."

   I presume that this admonition was not in my case
much needed ; since if I had not assimilated the mechan

ical principles already taught to me, my uncle would not

have advanced me to a higher stage, as he had done some

days before the above passage was written. In a letter to
my father dated July 28, 1 apologized for breaking off be
cause " I have to learn a quantity of Newton to keep up

with the others this morning ;" and there occurs the sen

tence--" But I am very proud of having got into New
ton." Reference to the MS. book, which I still possess,
shows that I did not go very far ; but this it appears was
due to the fact that I shortly left Hinton for a time.

   About this period we read aloud Miss Martineau's

Tales of Political Economy. Years before, when at home,
I had read sundry of them ; and comments to my advan

             125

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                              [1833-36

were but little deserved, and that I read for the stories

and skipped the political economy. However, from re

marks in my letters written in the spring of 1835, it

appears that I had gathered something of a solid kind.

  In August, 1835, I went home. As before, so again, it
resulted that when not subject to my uncle's discipline, I

studied but little. There was, however, an additional

pursuit, namely Chemistry ; my experiments in which are
named in letters to Hinton. There is also mention of

discussions on physical and moral questions with my

father: some of them being raised afresh when writing

to my uncle, with a request for his opinion.

I was received back at Hinton very cordially in

November. There I found a new comer replacing S              ,

who had gone home. He also was from Ireland --an

Irishman I was going to say ; but literally an Irish youth,

younger than myself, named F  . He did not raise my

conception of the average intelligence ; for he had still

less faculty than preceding pupils. However, though

stupid, he was good-tempered ; and that made the ex

change advantageous.

  A letter written home in December contains a sketch-

plan of the house and grounds, not made from measure,

but from general inspection and knowledge of the place.

It was thought that I could not have done such a thing

without a copy ; but this was untrue. My perception
of locality was at that time somewhat unusual -- much

greater than in later life. It was one of those powers

which sometimes develop early and afterwards sink into

the background ; as in the cases of boys showing special
powers of calculation.

126

/Et. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

print. A small periodical called The Bath Magazine had

been announced to make its first appearance on January

1, 1836; and my uncle had been invited to contribute. I

heard much about the proposed periodical while pre

liminaries were being arranged, and my ambition to write

for it was aroused. This I did secretly. My contribu

tion was a letter describing the formation of certain

curiously-shaped floating crystals which I had observed

during the preceding autumn when crystallizing common

salt. The letter appeared in due course to my great de
light, and to the surprise of my relations. Once having

commenced, of course the ambition was to continue ; and

a topic then dominant in the conversation at Hinton fur
nished the subject of a second letter -- a reply to a com
munication antagonistic to the New Poor Law, which

had been published in the first number of the magazine.

I name the circumstance as showing that, even at that

time, there was interest in topics of widely diverse kinds.
   My letters to my father continued to contain more or

less that was original -- sometimes problems which I set

him in Geometry or Algebra, and at other times ideas in

Mechanics. A passage in one of them dated January 31,
1836, runs as follows :--

  " I have just invented an improvement on the air pump,
that on the manner of working it. If you remember
is,
        a

                    I

                                  a if
                                                                                    ;
                                                  I
                                                                      it I
mentioned to you while was at home, that thought

would be great improvement  we could turn the handle

the whole instead of half-way round because on the pres

ent plan you not only stand in disadvantageous position,

but every time you stop the handle, you lose the momentum

acquired in going half way round, whereas by my plan in

which there are only three more wheels, you may go right

round."

             127

       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY        [1833-36

Whether I deluded myself or not in supposing my plan

practicable, the incident is significant: partly as again

showing that which has already been shown in so many
ways --the self-reliance which, among other results,
prompts original thought --and partly as implying some

mechanical ingenuity. Another illustration of this self-

reliance is furnished by correspondence at that time.

Mention is made of proofs of my uncle's pamphlets read

by me for the correction of typographical errors and

punctuation ; and the mention is accompanied by some

criticism on his style (!) A propos of these pamphlets,

some of which were on the Poor Laws and some on other

topics, I may add that my uncle had been recently ap

pointed the first Chairman of the Board of Guardians of

the Bath Union. He also took part in the temperance

agitation, as well as in other philanthropic activities ; and

the correspondence proves that I had a considerable

interest in all that went on. The daily discussions con

stituted a useful discipline, having results in after

life.

One of my fellow-pupils, P     , obtained his expected

Indian appointment about the close of 1835, and there

after disappeared from our circle. Our relation had been

amicable ; and at parting he presented me with all his
fishing gear. In a letter to my father dated January 7,

1836, the following remarks are made by my aunt in
reference to this change :--

" He has I think felt Robt. P  's loss a good deal. Not
that I mean to say he cared much for him as a favourite
friend--but merely as a companion, Herbert still continuing

so dependent on others for amusement and happiness. I

know this is natural to all young people ; but I do not think

       128

Mt. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

constantly with them -- I mean boys of their own age. He
still continues very reserved ; but I certainly see a great

improvement in many things."

   Correspondence soon after this refers to some facts

which perhaps have a general physiological meaning, and
are therefore here worth noting, though otherwise of no

interest. I was, it seems, growing rapidly-- three inches

per year : having previously been rather slow of growth.
In a letter to my father which quotes remarks made about

my increasing stature, there is a statement respecting my

mental condition, which neither I nor those around seem

to have suspected had any relation to the rapid growth,
though it probably had. Here is a quotation :--

   " I do not find my mind in as bright a state as I could wish.
Just now I feel as though I had lost nearly all my energy.

I think it is partly owing to want of competition, for now
P is gone I have less stimulus to exertion ; but I do not
think it can be all owing to that and I am at a loss to account

for it."

My uncle, too, at the same period comments on my dul-

ness and failure of memory. Certainly this last trait must

have been very marked. Not only have I absolutely
forgotten some books I read at that time, but until
perusal of my letters proved that I had read them, I did
not know that I had ever seen them. Was not growth the
cause? If excess of muscular effort, as in a pedestrian

tour, is apt to leave behind inertness of brain, which for a

time makes mental work difficult, it is reasonable to sup

pose that an unusual draft upon the resources of the

system for building up the body, may, in like manner,

leave the brain inadequately supplied, and cause feeble
ness in its action.

    It is worth inquiring whether in such cases there is not

            10 129

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                         [1833-36

Ifproduced a simultaneous moral effect.  there is such an

effect, an explanation is yielded of the fact which the

correspondence of the time proves, that there occurred a

deterioration in my relations to my uncle and aunt. I got
out of favour with them, and I was dissatisfied with my

uncle's treatment of me. Is there not reason to think that

rapid growth may temporarily affect the emotional

nature disadvantageously, in common with the intellectual

nature ? As in children failure of cerebral nutrition, when

caused by inactivity of the alimentary canal, is commonly

accompanied by ill-temper; so, it seems not improbable

that when the failure of cerebral nutrition is caused by

the demands made for increase of the bodily structure, a

kindred result may be entailed. Conditions which bring

about a defective supply of blood to the brain, tend to

throw the higher powers out of action while they leave

the lower in action: the later and less evolved faculties

feeling the effects of an ebb-tide of blood, more than the

earlier and fully evolved ones. Such a relation, if proved

to exist, should be taken into account in the treatment of

young people.

   Nothing worthy of record occurred during the spring

of 1836. The treacherousness of memory complained of,
while it decreased my already-small aptitude for lin
guistic studies, told less in other directions. That which

remained with me best was the mathematical knowl

edge I had acquired; for though the details of this
slipped, I readily renewed them. Thus in May 1836 I

describe myself in a letter as going through six books of

Euclid in a week and a half.

   This appears to have been my last piece of student-

work. In June I went home finally; and my life at

130

/Er. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

deducting the intervals spent at home, nearly two years
and a half.

   A brief review of its results may be worth making.
Certainly it had been physically advantageous. I re

turned to Derby strong, in good health, and of good

stature: my ultimate height (not then reached, however),

being five feet ten inches. I had doubtless benefited

both by the rural life and by the climate, which is

bracing.

   Intellectually I had profited much. A fair amount of

mathematics had been acquired; and the accompany

ing discipline had strengthened my reasoning powers.
In the acquisition of languages but trifling success had

been achieved: in French nothing beyond the early part
of the grammar and a few pages of a phrase book; in

Greek a little grammar I suppose, and such knowledge

as resulted from rendering into English a few chapters
of the New Testament; and in Latin some small ability
to translate the easy books given to beginners -- always,

however, with more or less of blundering. Education at
Hinton was not wide in its range. No history was read ;

there was no culture in general literature; nor had thq
concrete sciences any place in our course. Poetry and

fiction were left out entirely. All shortcomings recog
nized, however, I derived great benefit from being made
to apply far more than I should have done otherwise.
Probably, but for my life at Hinton I should have gone

on idly, learning next to nothing.

  Morally, too, the regime I had lived under was salu

tary. Unfortunately during the years of my life at home,

there was not that strong government required to keep

             131

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1833-36

ernment: the results being frequent disobediences and
reprimands. Out of the objectionable mood of mind

consequent on this, my uncle's firmer rule got me. It
was better to be under a control which I no doubt re
sented, but to which I had to conform, than to be under

a control which prompted resistance because resistance

was frequently successful. The best results would have

been achieved by one who had my father's higher ideal

along with my uncle's stronger will. Had there been

an adequate appeal to the higher nature, something

much superior would, I think, have resulted; for I re
member cases which prove that I might have been self-

coerced through the sympathies and affections had these

been kept awake. One of the defects in my uncle's

training was due to the asceticism in which he had been
brought up. This prevented him from adequately recog
nizing the need for positive amusement. There was in
the daily life laid out for us little provision for other re
laxation than that which came from leaving off intel
lectual work and turning to some occupation out of

doors, such as gardening.

  But criticism is somewhat out of place. I was treated

with much more consideration and generosity than

might have been expected. There was shown great

patience in prosecuting what seemed by no means a

hopeful undertaking. Had I been in my uncle's place
I think I should have soon relinquished it. Of my aunt,
also, I may say that there was displayed by her much

kindly feeling and a strong sense of duty. Indeed they

might be instanced in proof that religious convictions

reinforce naturally right tendencies, and cause perse
verance in good works notwithstanding discourage

132

JEt. 13-16]  YOUTH AT HINTON

strongly with the fact that I owe very much to them.

They had to deal with intractable material --an individu

ality too stiff to be easily moulded.

   On reading over the foregoing account, based partly

on my own recollections and partly on family corre

spondence, it occurs to me that the impressions it leaves

may need discounting: more especially the impressions

likely to be produced by the letters of my father and

my uncle. Some of the unquoted passages written by

them, showed that in forming their estimates of me they

used, as measures, the remembrances of their own boy
hood, and also show that they were eminently " good "
boys. Thus gauged, not by the average boy-nature but

by an exceptional boy-nature, I was more unfavourably
judged than I should otherwise have been. I am led to

make this remark by recalling the descriptions of doings

at boys' schools (and especially public schools) which I

have occasionally read; ending with the recent incident at
King's College School, (April, 1885) where a boy's death
resulted from ill-usage by his school-fellows. Certainly

the brutalities commonly committed I could never have

committed. Transgressions due to insubordination,
such as going out of bounds and the like, would probably

have been more numerous than usual; but transgres

sions of a graver kind would, I believe, have been less

numerous. The extrinsically-wrong actions would have
been many, but the intrinsically-wrong actions would

have been few.

   I do not insist much on this qualification, but it oc

 curs to me to name it as perhaps one that should be

made.

             133

                        CHAPTER V.

                           A FALSE START.

                   1836 -- 37. Mr. 16 -- 17.

   Letters dating fifty odd years back, enabled me to

give to the last chapter a much more graphic character
than memory alone would have enabled me to give it.

In describing the year and a half which now follows,
correspondence gives me but little aid. As I was at
home throughout this interval, the occasions for refer
ence to me in the communications between Hinton and
Derby were comparatively few. Such incidents only as

I can recollect must fill in the space.

   Not long after my return my father, possibly because
he wanted the information, but more probably because

he wished to test my ability to apply the knowledge I

had gained, sent me over to Kirk-Ireton to make a
survey of the small property there belonging to him --
two fields and three cottages with their gardens : a prop
erty which had been in the family for several genera

tions. About the methods used in surveying I knew

nothing. The subject had not been touched at Hinton.

But my father was right in what I presume was his ex

pectation, that my geometrical knowledge would ade

quately serve me in executing so simple a task. I

brought him back the survey next day.

                                                   134

JEt. 16-17]  A FALSE START

I cannot remember; but something prompted me to

make designs for a country house. They were very ab
surd in relation to their end ; for the arrangements were

I remember, simply those of a town house transferred

into the country. But the drawings, still existing some

where among my papers, show a certain amount of apti

tude as a draughtsman -- if the word is applicable to a

youth of sixteen.

   It was either during the autumn of 1836, or during
that of 1837, that I hit upon a remarkable property of
the circle, not, so far as I have been able to learn, pre
viously discovered: one which falls within the division

of mathematics originally called Descriptive Geometry,

but now known as the Geometry of Position. I did not

then attempt a proof. This was not supplied until some
two years later. The theorem and its demonstration

were eventually published. (See Appendix B.)

   One further recollection I may set down as at once

amusing and characteristic. The possibility of a day's
fishing in the Trent had suddenly presented itself. Ea

gerly occupying myself during the previous evening in

getting ready my appliances, I retired to bed somewhat

early with the intention of starting at daybreak. Even
in those days much excitement kept me awake ; and the

forthcoming gratification so filled my thoughts that for

hours I vainly turned from side to side. All the while

the room was partially illuminated by the light of a full
moon, which penetrated the wide curtains. Somewhere
about three o'clock the thought occurred to me-- Why
lie here tossing about? Why not start at once? The

thought was forthwith acted upon. I got up, dressed,

sallied out, walked by moonlight to Swarkstone, five

miles off, and began fishing by moonlight.

             135

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1836-37

   My father had formed a high estimate of the dignity of
his profession. He held, and rightly held, that there are
few functions higher than that of the educator.

   As ordinarily conceived and as ordinarily discharged,
the function does not draw to itself much respect.
Partly, under-valuation of the teacher is a concomitant

of that under-valuation of knowledge, which has charac
terized past times; and dates back to feudal days, when
reading and writing were not among knightly ac
complishments, and when learning was considered as
properly left to the children of mean people. Partly,
however, it is consequent upon the low quality of the
teacher, as he has been exemplified in ordinary experi
ence. Not uncommonly the occupation of training the
young has, among men, been undertaken by those who
have failed in other occupations ; and, among women, by

those who have been left destitute or in difficulties --

people with no pretension either to natural fitness or
to special preparation. The usual belief has been that
anyone might hear lessons said, or teach writing, or
point out errors in sums. Even the abilities displayed

by those who have filled the higher posts -- masters in
public schools and the like-- have not been such as to in
spire their pupils or others with much reverence. Men
who have gone on generation after generation pursuing
a mere mechanical routine-- men who have never
brought any analytical faculty to bear on the minds of
their pupils-- men who have never thought of trying to

ascertain the normal course of intellectual development,
with the view of adapting their methods to the successive

stages reached -- men who have, from the earliest days

down to the present time, taught abstractions before

136

/Et. 16-17]  A FALSE START

which they are abstractions; such men, I say, have nat

urally failed to impress their fellow-citizens. One who,

not being a slave of tradition, contemplates schools as

they have been, and as many of them still are,

instead of being struck by the stupidity of the pupils,

may more reasonably be struck by the stupidity of the

masters.

    It was because his ideal of education was so much

higher than that commonly entertained, that my father

differed from most persons so widely in the rank he as

signed to the teacher's office. If he did not make mental

development a subject of deliberate study, yet he had

reached some general ideas concerning and saw theis it,
                                                          is
need for adjusting the course of instruction to the suc

cessive stages through which the mind passes. Instead

of persisting in methods devised in rude times and un

thinkingly persevered in down to our own, he constantly

sought for better methods. Always he aimed to insure

an intelligent understanding of that which was taught:

never being content with mere passive acceptance of it.

And perceiving how involved process the unfolding
                             it
of intellect, how important      is a  that the process should

be aided and not thwarted, and what need there for

invention and judgment in the choice of means, he saw

that, carried on as should be, the educator's function
             it

is  one which calls for intellectual powers of the highest

order, and perpetually taxes these to the full. Not in

intellect only, but in feeling, did his conception of the

true educator demand superiority. He habitually sought,

and sought successfully, to obtain the confidence of his

pupils by showing sympathy with them in their difficul

ties and in their successes; and thus secured state of
                                       a

                             137

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1836-37

to emotional improvement. He might, in short, be
placed in contrast with that schoolmaster of Carlyle, de
scribed in his Reminiscences; and of whose harsh treat

ment of the stupid, Carlyle speaks admiringly after his
manner.

   Thus estimating so highly his profession as one in
ferior to few in order of natural rank, my father evi

dently desired that I should adopt it. He never, how

ever, definitely expressed his desire: perceiving, I fancy,

that there was on my part a reluctance.

   Had it not been at variance with his nature to lay a

plot, I might have supposed that my father had plotted

to lead me into the career of the teacher. One day to
wards the end of July 1837, he told me that Mr. Mather,

the schoolmaster with whom I had been during the

earlier part of my boyhood, had lost his assistant, and

had failed to find another. His vacation was coming to

a close : leaving him, as he said, in some difficulty. The

question put to me was, whether I would play the part
of assistant until he obtained one. I had been at home

for a year doing nothing; and though to assent went

against my inclination, I felt I could not do otherwise

than assent.

   Whether advised to do so by my father, or whether of

his own motion, I do not know, but Mr. Mather assigned

to me the least mechanical part of the teaching; and in

this I succeeded fairly well-- perhaps, indeed, better
than most would have done. A certain facility of exposi
tion being natural to me, I had also, by implication, some

interest in explaining things to those who did not un

derstand them. Hence in respect of the subjects I dealt

138

JEr. 16-17]  A FALSE START

giving. Especially with geometry I succeeded so well

that the weekly lesson was eagerly looked forward to;

and in our miscellaneous readings, I managed by com

ments and pieces of information beyond those contained

in the books read, to create willing attention and result

ing good recollection. In short, led mainly I doubt not

by the example of my father, and partly by personal ex

perience, I fell into natural methods rather than mechan

ical methods.

  Very possibly, bearing in mind the account I have

given of myself in the last chapter, the reader will infer

that my relations with those under my control were

inharmonious. If he does so, he will be wrong, how
ever. It has been often remarked that the slave and the

tyrant are in nature the same; and that it is merely a

question of circumstances which part is played. The

converse proposition, if not true in full measure, is partly

true. He who by nature is prone to resist coercion, is,

if duly endowed with sympathy, averse to exercising

coercion. I say if duly endowed with sympathy; be

cause, if devoid of he may be prone to assert his ownis

claims to freedom of action, while regardless of thea

claims of others. But supposing he has adequate felit,

low feeling, his mental representations will, in measI
                                   I
                                                a
ure, deter him from habitually using that power over

others which he dislikes to have used over himself. Such

at least     connexion of traits which have else

where sought to show holds in men's social relations,

and which held in my relations with my pupils. My ex

perience extended over three months; and during many

Saturday-afternoon rambles in the country, when was
                                   I

in sole charge, there was, believe, no instance in which

             139

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1836-37

one side and resistance on the other. Partly in conse

quence of the friendly feelings that had been produced by

my way of conducting studies, and partly because I did

not vex by needless interdicts, complete harmony con

tinued throughout the entire period.

   Should I have succeeded had teaching become my pro

fession? The answer is ambiguous -- Yes and No. In
some respects I should probably have proved well
adapted to the function; but in other respects not at all

adapted.

   In a preceding chapter I have remarked that the habit

of castle-building, which was so strong in me as a boy,
and, continuing throughout youth, did not wholly cease
in adult life, passed gradually into the contemplation of

schemes more or less practicable. One of these, often

dwelt upon not very many years ago, was that of found

ing an educational institute, including lower and higher
schools, in which I should be able to carry out my own
plans, alike for intellectual culture, moral discipline, and
physical training. The detailed arrangements to be made

in these respective departments, often occupied my

thoughts during leisure hours; and I think it not im
probable that, had I been put in possession of the need

ful means, and furnished with a sufficient staff of ade

quately intelligent assistants, I might have done

something towards exemplifying a better system of ed
ucation. Freed from the executive part of the work,

and responsible only for devising methods, superintend
ing the execution of them, and maintaining order, the

function would have been one not unsuitable to my na
ture; and might have been well discharged. At the time,

140

/fix. 16-17]  A FALSE START

me, I was already committed to an undertaking more

than sufficient for my energies.

   But while under such ideal conditions I might have
achieved a success, under ordinary conditions I should,

I believe, have failed. In the first place, I dislike me

chanical routine; and though rational plans of education

would make lessons much less mechanical than they are

at present, a considerable part must always remain me

chanical. In the second place, I have a great intolerance

of monotony; and many, if not most, of a teacher's
duties are necessarily monotonous. In the third place,

my desire to carry out my own ideas, alike in respect to
what constitutes a good education, in respect to the
methods used, and in respect to the order followed,
would probably have caused frequent differences with

parents. As I should have been very reluctant to sur

render my plans, while most parents would probably
have insisted upon the adoption of something like the
ordinary curriculum, serious breaches would have fre

quently occurred.
   So that, for these several reasons, it seems to me

likely that, had I been led into the career of a teacher, I

should after a time have thrown it up in disgust.

   The experiment was not to be tried, however. There
now occurred an incident which determined my course

of life for a period of years.
   My uncle William had gone to London early in No

vember, 1837, and before the end of the first week, I

received a letter from him telling me to come up imme

diately. The reason assigned was that he had obtained
for me a post under Mr. Charles Fox, mentioned in a

              141

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1836-37

Stephenson on the London and Birmingham Railway
during its construction, and who had now become per
manent resident engineer of the London division. He

had, I believe, during our visit to him at Watford three

years previously, formed a favourable estimate of me, in

so far as my fitness for engineering was concerned ; but

friendship for my father was, I suspect, the chief motive

for offering me the appointment.
   Of course the offer was at once accepted. Already,

as I see by letters, the profession of a civil engineer had

been one named as appropriate for me : and this opening

at once led to the adoption of it.

142

        PART II.

  VI. Commence Engineering.
 VII. Life at Worcester.
VIII. Some Months at Powick.
  IX. A Nomadic Period.


                        CHAPTER VI.

                    COMMENCE ENGINEERING.

                     1837-- 38. JEt. 17--18.

  Even in the absence of letters I should have known
that I arrived in London on the 8th of November, 1837;

for the next day furnished an incident which fixes the
date. The Queen, who had but lately succeeded to the

throne and was not yet crowned, dined with the Lord
Mayor in the City on the 9th of November ; and the oc

casion called for a State-pageant. To see this I was, the

morning after my arrival, taken by my uncle and the

friends he was visiting in London. It was the only royal
procession, or display of allied kind, which I ever saw.

  The office of Mr. Charles Fox, in which I was for an

interval to pass most of my days, was at the Chalk Farm

Station. It is no longer extant; having been demolished

to make room for the North London Railway, which
crosses the Hampstead Road and enters the station just

over its site. Here I presented myself on the 10th, and

made acquaintance of some who were to be my com
panions. On the day after came my first experience of
railway travelling, gained during an excursion with Mr.

Fox as far as Tring--the point to which the London and
Birmingham Railway, as it was then called, was open.
Locomotion was less rapid than it is now. In the course

                     11 145

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1837-38

of our journey, Mr. Fox took out his watch, and, noting

the passing of the mile-posts, calculated that we were
going at 30 miles an hour, which he thought a high

speed. Nor was the rolling-stock at that time much like
what it is at the present time. The engines used on the
London and Birmingham lines had but four wheels, and
weighed only ten tons. The first-class carriages were, as
nearly as might be, made to represent three coach-bodies
joined together; and, in pursuance of the tacit desire to

repeat coaching usages, every first-class carriage had a
guard's seat on the outside at each end: an arrange
ment which did not cease until a guard was killed by
collision with the arch of a bridge, while inadvertently
standing on the roof of a carriage. The second-class

carriages, evidently intended to simulate the outsides of
coaches as much as was practicable, had no sides, and
were covered by roofs supported on vertical iron rods,
so that the wind and rain could blow through from side
to side.

  Bradshaw's Guide, too, was not yet--did not com

mence till the autumn of 1838, when it made its appear
ance in the shape of some three or four leaves. There

have been disputes as to the date of its origin, but I

speak from definite remembrance.

   Already it has been stated that Mr. Charles Fox, who,
fourteen years after, became well known as the designer
and constructor of the Exhibition-Building of 185 1, and
was afterwards knighted, had been a pupil of my father;

and there has also been named the fact, that in 1834, I

had, in company with my father and mother, paid a visit
to him at Watford, where he filled the post of sub-engi

146

At. 17-18)  COMMENCE ENGINEERING

transferred by Mr. Robert Stephenson, the engineer-in-
chief, to superintend under him the construction of what
was in those days known as " The Extension." For the
London and Birmingham Railway was originally intend
ed to stop at Chalk Farm; and only in pursuance of an
afterthought was it lengthened to Euston Square. Mr.
Charles Fox's faculty had, probably, soon made itself
manifest to Mr. Stephenson. He had no special disci
pline fitting him for engineering--very little mathemat
ical training or allied preparation; but in place of it he
had a mechanical genius. Much of the work on " The
Extension " for which Stephenson got credit, was orig
inated by him: among other things, the iron roof at
Euston Station, which was the first of the kind ever
made. After the Extension was finished he was ap
pointed resident engineer of the London division of the
line: his limit being Wolverton. Parts of this division
were still incomplete; and beyond the completion of

these there devolved on him much business with con

tractors -- measuring up work and making small surveys.
He had, possibly, represented to the directors that his
time was unduly absorbed in these details ; for it was to

undertake them that I was appointed. He had seen

something of me during our visit at Watford in 1834,

and possibly the fact that I had surprised a pupil of his,

Mr. Frank Conder, by solving a problem in trigonometry

he set me by way of test, gave him some confidence in
my ability to discharge these not very difficult duties.
The salary was only £80 a year, with a prospect of in
crease to £150; but for a youth of 17 this was not amiss:
especially considering that the post gave valuable op
portunities of obtaining information and undergoing

discipline.

                                                   147

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1837-38

   My chief companion at first was Mr. George Harris, a
pupil of Mr. Fox. Our occupations were scarcely dis

tinguishable. Many not unpleasant days were passed
together during the winter and early spring in survey

ing at various parts of the line. It was, indeed, dis

agreeable in muddy weather to make measurements of
" spoil-banks," as are technically called the vast heaps of

earth which have, here and there, been in excess of the

needs for making embankments, and have been run out
into adjacent fields; and it was especially annoying
when, in pelting rain, the blackened water from one's hat
dripped on to the note-book. The office-work, too, as

may be inferred from the tastes implied by the account
of my education, came not amiss. There was scope for

accuracy and neatness, to which I was naturally inclined;

and there was opportunity for inventiveness. So fully,

indeed, did the kind of work interest me, that I shortly

began to occupy the evenings in making a line-drawing

of a pumping engine for my own satisfaction, and as a
sample of skill as a draughtsman.

  Letters show that I was quite alive to the responsibili

ties of my post, and resolute to succeed. During the
whole of this sojourn in London, lasting over six months,

I never went to a place of amusement; nor ever read a

novel or other work of light literature. Evenings not

spent in drawing or in calls on friends, were devoted to
rambles about London; and these, of course, were in

teresting to a youth of my age and inexperience. One

incident attendant on these rambles remains with me.

To my great astonishment I found myself in a large

square lighted with oil lamps: the time being one when

the use of gas was almost universal, and when, indeed,

148

M.T. 17-18]  COMMENCE ENGINEERING

disappeared. This square was Grosvenor Square. It

struck me as curiously significant that in this centre of
fashionable life there should still survive the old system
of illumination when it had elsewhere been replaced by a
better.

   Letters to my father now written, recall letters written
from Hinton during my boyhood, in the respect that

considerable spaces in them are occupied by mathemat

ical questions and other spaces by suggested inventions
or improvements. One dated about Christmas contains

a demonstration of a theorem in conic sections, and an

other some speculations -- very crude ones indeed -- re

specting the relation between pressure and expansion

of steam, and the relation of the two to temperature. In

a letter of February 7, I find the passage :--

   " You will very likely recollect that while I was in Derby
I made many experiments on the formation of curves, and

some of them, of which you first suggested the idea, were
formed by the motion of a line of a given length through a
fixed point ; one end being moved according to some partic
ular conditions and the other end describing some peculiar

curve."

There follows an example of such a curve, with the
sketch of a suggested instrument for utilizing the idea.

A page of a letter of March 10 is occupied by solutions

of problems my father had sent, and another page by a
calculation he requested me to make of the allowance
for curvature of the Earth in levelling. Then, later on in
the spring, come accounts of improved methods of keep
ing the note-book of a survey and of ranging straight

lines.

             149

            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY         [1837-38

Hinton, disagreeable concomitants. On one occasion
Mr. Fox passed some criticisms upon my tendency to

differ from companions, and from officials with whom I

had dealings. Unhappily the particular case which led
to the expostulation was one in which, because of my
better mathematical culture, my disagreement with an
official was well warranted. The effect would have been

greater had I been proved wrong.

Towards the end of May came a change in my occu

pation and place of abode ; as is shown by the following

passage from a letter home dated Wembly, near Har
row, June 12: --

  " You will see by the date of this letter that I am not at
present staying in London. I have now been down in the
country rather more than three weeks, where I am staying

as the Company's Agent to superintend the completion of the
approach roads to the Harrow Road bridge. My duties con

sist in seeing that the contractor fulfils the terms of the

contract, and also to take care that when he draws money
...on account he does not get more than an equivalent for the
work done.              I have now a good deal of time for

study, &c, and I am making pretty good use of it. The

inclosed [6] solutions of problems on the second book of
Chambers [Euclid] I made out in one morning whilst seated
...under one of the arches of the bridge, where I had taken
shelter from the rain.  I went to London a few days

after I came and got a drawing-board, paper, &c, and

commenced the drawing of a locomotive engine for myself.

The drawing which I am copying is merely in lines, but the
drawing which I am doing I have commenced colouring and

shall finish in about a fortnight."

In July my father spent a week with me at Wembly,

                        150

-St. 17-18]  COMMENCE ENGINEERING

As is implied by several passages in letters, this was a

good deal felt. The following is dated August 3.

"I am sorry to say that from all I can see I shall continue

here some time longer. Since you went we have commenced

curing the slips which you saw when you were here. I have

had them almost entirely under my own management. . . .
...engine with a train of sheep ran off the line.
We had an accident close by here a few days ago. An

                                                   I was

on the spot very soon after the accident and remained until

the engine was got on again about 1 1 o'clock at night. . . .

I was very much struck with the promptness and tact which

Mr. Fox displayed in the management of the concern. The
appearance of things was more altered for the better in 10

minutes after he had turned to, than it had been for an hour

before."

Then followed sketches of an appliance by which I pro

posed to make some kinds of sewing " much easier, more

expeditious, and perhaps neater."  Before the close

comes the sentence: --

" In your next letter send me word what are your ideas

about the revolution of the magnetic pole. Do you think it
has any connexion with the precession of the equinoxes ? "

   Evidently the characteristic excursiveness of thought
was continuing and perhaps increasing.

   An amusing adventure experienced during my stay at
Wembly is worth narrating. Mr. Fox wished to have a

survey of the Wolverton Station, in preparation, prob

ably, for enlargement. Harris and I were sent down one

day early in August to make this survey; and we com
pleted it before evening set in. Wolverton, being then

the temporary terminus, between which and Rugby the

             151

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1837-38

the trains to London started. The last of them was the

mail, leaving somewhere about 8. If I remember rightly

there were at that time only five trains in the day, and

there were none at night. A difficulty arose. This mail-
train did not stop between Watford and London, but I

wished to stop at the intermediate station -- Harrow:
that being the nearest point to Wembly. It turned out

that there was at the Wolverton Station no vehicle hav
ing a brake to it-- nothing available but a coach-truck.

Being without alternative, I directed the station-master

to attach this to the train. After travelling with my com

panion in the usual way until we reached Watford, I

bade him good-night and got into the coach-truck.

Away the train went into the gloom of the evening,

and for some six or seven miles I travelled unconcerned

ly: knowing the objects along the line well, and contin

ually identifying my whereabouts. Presently we reached
a bridge about a mile and half to the north of Harrow

Station-- the Dove-house Bridge, I think it was then

called. Being quite aware that the line at this point, and

throughout a long distance in advance, falls towards

London at the rate of 1 in 330 ; I expected that the

coach-truck, having no brake, would take a long time to
stop. A mile and a half would, it seemed, be sufficient

allowance ; and on coming to the said bridge I un
coupled the truck and sat down. In a few seconds I got

up again to see whether all the couplings were un
hooked; for, to my surprise, the coach-truck seemed to

be going on with the train. There was no coupling left un

hooked, however, and it became clear that I had allowed

an insufficient distance for the gradual arrest. Though

the incline is quite invisible to the eye, being less

152

JEr. 17-18]  COMMENCE ENGINEERING

cided; and the axles being, no doubt, well greased, the
truck maintained its velocity. Far from having stopped

when Harrow was reached, I was less than a dozen yards
behind the train! My dismay as we rushed through the

station at some 30 miles an hour may be well imagined.
There was the prospect of having to push back the truck

after it had stopped ; and, judging from the small loss of

velocity during the preceding mile and a half, the stop
page seemed likely to be remote enough. There now,

however, commenced a cause of retardation which I had

not counted upon. From the Dove-house Bridge to the

Harrow Station, the line is straight; but immediately

after passing the Harrow Station it enters upon a curve.

Of course the result in this case was that there came into

play the friction of the flange of the outer wheel upon the
outer rail. A loss of velocity necessarily followed. The

train now began rapidly to increase its distance, and
shortly disappeared in the gloom. Still, though my

speed had diminished, I rushed on at a great pace. Pres

ently, seeing at a little distance in front the light of a

lantern, held, I concluded, by a foreman of the plate

layers, who was going back to the station after having

seen the last train pass, I shouted to him; thinking that

if he would run at the top of his speed he might per

haps catch hold of the waggon and gradually arrest it.
He, however, stood staring; too much astonished, even

if he understood me, and, as I learned next day, when he

reached Harrow Station reported that he had met a man

in a newly-invented carriage which had run away with

him! Failing this method of bringing by undesired jour

ney to an end, there arose the thought of trying to stop

the truck myself. I unfastened one of the cross-bars

             153

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1837-38

to press the end of it against the tyre of the wheel. I

soon found, however, that this necessitated leaning over

so much that I should be in danger of tumbling out, and

gave up the attempt.
   After being carried some two miles beyond the Har

row Station, I began rather to rejoice that the truck was
going so far ; for I remembered that at no great distance

in advance was the Brent siding--a place, just to the
north of the Brent embankment, where a line of rails

diverged from the main line into a side-cutting, and into
which the truck might easily be pushed instead of push

ing it back to Harrow. I looked with satisfaction to

this prospect; entertaining no doubt that the waggon

would come to rest in time. By and by, however, it

became clear that the truck would not only reach this
siding but pass it; and then came not a little alarm, for
a mile or so further on was the level crossing at Willes-

den: Willesden being at that time a village having no

station, and the level crossing (where there is now a
bridge) serving merely to give continuity to a quiet lane.

I knew that after the last train had passed, the level-

crossing-gate would be closed against the line; and that
if the truck went on as it was going it would run full

tilt against the gate, and I should probably be thrown
out and killed. However, there was one saving fact--

the incline of 1 in 330, down which the truck was rush

ing, came to an end some distance before Willesden. I

was soon made aware of this fact on reaching the Brent
bridge ; for the truck then began to slacken speed, and
finally came to a stand in the middle of the embankment

crossing of the Brent valley.

  Here was I then, between 9 and 10 at night, with this

154

JEt. 17-18]  COMMENCE ENGINEERING

for the safety of the line next morning. I forthwith

walked on to the level crossing at Willesden and aroused
the man in charge. He came to the window of his bed
room and listened sceptically for some time to my state
ment: thinking it was an attempt to hoax him. How
ever, on telling him that if a train was thrown off in the
morning he would be responsible for the result, he be

lieved, dressed himself and came out, walked with me

along the line to the place where the truck was standing,
and joined me in pushing it back to the siding. But the

adventure was not ended. It happened that the switch

leading into this siding was a peculiar one; and, not be
ing aware of the peculiarity, we ran the truck off the
rails. Here seemed a still greater dilemma. However,
by our united efforts, helping ourselves with sleepers
lying at hand and using a cross-bar of the truck as a
lever, we finally heaved the truck on to the rails again,

and, pushing it into the siding, blocked it safely. I then

made the best of my way to the farm-house at Wembly

in which I was staying: arriving there between 12 and

1 o'clock in the morning. Of course the incident was

not kept a secret by those who were witnesses ; and, as
may be imagined, caused a good deal of laughter at my

expense.

   Something much more important to me, though less

amusing to the reader, soon after happened. A letter to
my father dated Wembly, August 23, runs thus: --

  " I have got capital news for you and I have no doubt that

you will rejoice with me in my improved prospects. Mr.
Fox has just made me an offer to go on to the Gloucester and

Birmingham Railway at a salary of £120 yearly, and says he

             155

      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                 [1837-38

    annum. The situation at first would be one of a draughts

    man, and if found competent I should be raised to a sub-

    assistant engineership. As an additional encouragement,
    and a very flattering compliment to me, Mr. Fox pointed out

    the instance of Conder [a pupil of his while he was at Wat
    ford] who has been some time holding a situation of £200
    a year [on the Birmingham and Gloucester] ' although,' Mr.
    Fox said, ' he has not got his wits about him nearly as much as

    you have.' I also hear very pleasing accounts of Captain
    Moorsom, the head Engineer of the railway, whom I shall

    be under. Mr. Fox says he is one of the nicest men that he

    knows ; a real gentleman, and a benevolent, good-hearted

    man. Before I heard all the particulars I was very much in

    clined to refuse because should so much have preferred to
      it,

                   ;

                  I
    remain with Mr. Fox but as he said, the number of officers

    employed on the railway will be gradually diminishing, and

    my present situation would most likely not last long. . .  .

It I  am still busy at the Harrow-Road bridge and have had

    almost the entire management of the slips. Mr. Eastted  [the
                                                            and
    contractor] has been from home nearly all the time
    when he has been here he has not interfered with me.     All

    the slips are now very nearly cured.  I  have had about 80

    men under me for the last month."

    was agreed on all hands that the offer was one to be
accepted, and arrangements were presently made for my
departure.

   To complete the narrative           ought to name my last
piece of work before leavingI
father thus describes it:--          ILondon.          letter to my

                                                    A
       " Mr. Fox has lately been appointed consulting engineer
    to the Greenwich Railway; and Harris happening to be
    very unwell at the time, had to make surveys of the three

                            156

Mr. 17-18]  COMMENCE ENGINEERING

last two in and make the plans as well, so you may imagine

that I had not much spare time."

None of the railways from the South and East were then
existing. That which has now become a channel into
which pour various large streams of traffic, was then

nothing but an isolated few miles of line, evidently in
a very unprosperous condition, with scanty and mean
rolling stock, and termini not much larger than the ex
isting stations at Deptford and Spa Road. Enlarge
ments or improvements were to be made under Mr.
Fox's supervision.

   After finishing the plans of these stations and hand

ing them to Mr. Fox, I bade good-bye to him and to my

companions in the office at Camden Town, and left Lon
don for Worcester on the 24th September, 1838.

            157

                        CHAPTER VII.

                       LIFE AT WORCESTER.

                    1838 --40. Mr. 18-- 20.

   Many of those born within the past generation are
unaware of the fact that our great railways began as
comparatively small ones, and have grown to their pres
ent sizes by successive extensions and still more by suc
cessive amalgamations. The railway on to the engineer

ing staff of which I passed towards the end of September,

1838, at that time known as the Birmingham and
Gloucester Railway, was one of these relatively small
lines, subsequently lost by fusion with a vast system of
lines. The Midland Railway, which at first ran only from
Rugby to Leicester and thence to Nottingham and
Derby, began, in the Forties, to incorporate other lines;
first of all the North Midland, then the Birmingham and
Derby, and soon afterwards this same Birmingham and
Gloucester, which now forms a very small component.
During its construction no one connected with it sup
posed that it would thus lose its individuality.

   Our engineering offices were at Worcester, in a house
which no longer exists. It was pulled down years ago
to make room for a line of railway to Malvern, which
crosses Foregate Street over the site it occupied. The
second stage of my engineering career, there com

                                                   158

/Et. 18-20]     LIFE AT WORCESTER

known kind. Unlike the pupils of Mr. Charles Fox,

quiet youths, carefully brought up (two of them being

sons of dissenting ministers), the junior members of the

Birmingham and Gloucester staff belonged largely to

the ruling classes, and had corresponding notions and

habits. Our chief engineer, Capt. Moorsom, having

been a military man, and having as his two resident en

gineers (for the Birmingham  division and   the Glouces
ter division) military men
                             also -- Royal   Engineers--

showed his leanings, or perhaps chiefly his friendships,

by gathering together, as sub-engineers and draughts

men, young fellows whose connexions were in most

cases military or naval. There were, however, some of

other classes --one the son of a clergyman and himself

a Cambridge graduate, Mr. G. D. Bishop, who even

tually was for a time the locomotive engineer of the line,

and afterwards improver of the disc-engine; another,

Mr. C. E. Bernard, brought up as an architect, who

eventually settled at Cardiff ; a third, Mr. H. Hensman,

who, in later years, became engineer to the Bank of Eng

land; and others whose subsequent careers I need not

specify, or know nothing about.

The superintendence was not rigid, and the making

of designs was interspersed, now with stories not of an

improving kind, now with glances down on the passers-

by, especially the females, and resulting remarks: there

being also a continuous accompaniment of whistling and

singing, chiefly of sentimental ballads. As may be sup

posed, the code of morals (using the word in that ab

surdly restricted sense now commonly given to                                  was
                It
not very high.
                     is
                                   it

                                                                          it)
                an unfortunate concomitant of the

engineering profession that habitually carries young

                159

     AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-40

and neighbors which normally serve as curbs, and
places them among strangers whose opinions and criti
cisms exercise over them little or no influence. It is
with them as with medical students, who, similarly free
from the restraints of home, and not put under such re
straints as young men at Oxford and Cambridge are
subject to, show the effects in randomness of living --to

use the mildest expression.
   Not unfrequently the behaviour of our companions

was matter of remark between myself and a steady mem

ber of the staff, with whom I became intimate; and we

used to agree that it was impossible that they should
come to any good. We were wrong, however. Sundry

of them, whose after-careers I have known, have turned
out very respectable men --one especially, who, during

many years, has been exemplary in all relations, domestic
and social; and who, though in those early days without

any thought beyond selfish pleasures, has, during a long
mature life, been a man of high aspirations as well as
model conduct. Let me add that, strangely enough,

this change in him has been the concomitant of a change
from the so-called orthodox views in which he was

brought up, to the so-called heterodox views which he
has held during these forty odd years.

   "And who are the two in the brown coats?" Thisit,

question was put to one of our staff at a Worcester ball,
by the daughter of a physician living opposite to our
office, who daily saw the goings and comings of those
engaged in and doubtless made criticisms upon them
as they did upon her and her sister.

   The question referred to my friend G. B. W. Jackson

     160

/Ex. 18-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

both happened to wear frock coats of brown cloth--a
colour at that time not uncommonly worn. A question

from my father concerning him brought out the following
description :--

   " Jackson is about 24 years old. He was educated chiefly
in Germany and was articled to Mr. Wishaw, civil engineer.

He had been some years in business for himself before he

came here. He is a Moravian and very steady; not very
quick of comprehension. He has great perseverance. He

knows no more of classics than I do; is very fond of land

scape painting which he has practised a good deal whilst

travelling on the Continent; and I should say rather eco

nomical. There is a queer jumble of particulars ! "

   When, in the course of 1839, my father visited me, he

formed a very high opinion of him, as witness a passage
in a subsequent letter to me :--

  " I have thought it not unlikely that your noble-minded

friend Jackson may have had something to do with suggest

ing it [an improvement in my official position]. I believe it
to be his principle to do a good turn wherever he can. I
hope you will cultivate his friendship. I wish you saw his
nature as I do. Accustom yourself to open your heart to him

as an elder brother."

   He was the son of Dr. Jackson, at that time foreign

secretary to the Bible Society. Of somewhat ungainly

build, and with an intellect mechanically receptive but
without much thinking power, my friend was extremely

conscientious --one whose sense of rectitude was such

that he might be trusted without limit to do the right

thing. Without limit, did I say? Well, perhaps I should

make a qualification, and say that in all simple matters he

might be implicitly trusted. For I remember once ob

serving in him how needful an analytical intelligence is in

                    12 161

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-40

 cases where a question of right and wrong is raised out
 of the daily routine. The moral sentiments, however

 strong they may be, and however rightly they may guide
 in the ordinary relations of life, need enlightenment

 where the problems are complex.

    In one respect this companionship was, perhaps, not so
desirable. Association with a man whose intellectual

powers were above my own would have been more
advantageous. The effect of our intercourse was to
encourage, rather than to repress, the critical and self-

asserting tendency in me, already sufficiently pronounced.
    Alien in culture, ideas, sentiments, and aims, from

most of the young men with whom this new engagement

brought me in contact, they regarded me as an oddity.

Constitutionally wanting in reticence, I never concealed
my dissent from their opinions and feelings whenever I

felt it. This tendency to pass adverse judgment was
soon observed and commented upon. " He is a queer
fellow ; he's always finding fault with something or
other," was the kind of remark made in my presence.

The criticisms I so unwisely made were commonly not

without good cause. Most of these junior members of the
staff, engaged in making plans under direction, were
without engineering faculty, and had no interest in their
work beyond that of carrying out orders as best they
might. Having but rudimentary knowledge of mathe
matics and none of mechanics, they were incapable of
giving any scientific reasons for what they did ; and
hence there continually arose occasions for commenting
on things that were wrong.

   How little the thought of policy deterred me from dis
playing this constitutional habit, may be judged from two

162

Mt. 18-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

plans which were being finished by one of these com

panions, I observed a shadow incorrectly projected. My

remark upon it was met by the reply that it must be

right, since he had been shown how to project the
shadow by the resident engineer, Mr. Hughes. Prudence

would have dictated silence ; but yielding to a dictum,

however authoritative, which I believed to be wrong, was

not in my nature. To prove that I was right I made a

model in cardboard of the structure represented, and, by
using an artificial light, proved experimentally that the

shadow would take the form I alleged. Of course this

conduct, coming to the ears of my superior officer, was
not to my advantage. Still more absurd, from a pru
dential point of view, was another criticism of mine upon
a proposed system of laying the rails-- five feet bearings
between the chairs, with intermediate " saddles," as they

were called, yielding vertical support but no lateral
support. Led by experience gained on the London and

Birmingham, I perceived that this arrangement, sug

gested by Mr. Hughes and adopted by Captain Moorsom,
would not answer --that the lateral oscillations of the

engines would cause bulging in the intervals between the
chairs. In due time this prophecy proved to be well
founded ; but the utterance of it by a young fellow of
eighteen implied an offensive disrespect for those above

him.

   Of course the traits of character thus illustrated, did

not conduce to friendship with those around. After a

time, however, the unfavourable impressions at first pro
duced wore off. It was discovered that within the prickly

husk the kernel was not quite so harsh as was supposed.
Eventually amicable relations were established, and our

            163

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-40

   As compared with most lives, the lives led by the
junior members of the B. and G. staff were not trying or
unpleasant. Our office hours were from 9 to 5, with an
interval of an hour in the middle of the day; and we

had, what was at that time quite an exceptional thing,

the Saturday afternoon to ourselves.
   This leisure half-day was, when the weather permitted,

often utilized for excursions. Sometimes my friend Jack

son and I walked out to the line, the nearest point of

which, Spetchley, was some four miles from Worcester,
to inspect the work going on. During the summer of
1839 we betook ourselves to boating on the Severn; now
and then going as far up as a place which was named
Holt Fleet. Other members of the staff were occasionally

our companions, and, as we were young and in high

spirits, these afternoons were especially enjoyable. At

other times we took rambles in search of the picturesque ;

not on Saturdays only, but occasionally on Sundays : one

Sunday, I remember, being devoted to an expedition up

the valley of the Teme for some nine or ten miles. And

once I took a Sunday's solitary walk over to Malvern,

ascending the " Worcestershire Beacon," kept along the
top of the range of hills to the far end, and, descending
the " Herefordshire Beacon," returned to Worcester.

   Save these Saturday-afternoon excursions and summer-

evening walks into the country with Jackson, not many
positive pleasures varied my life during this period ; for,

not associating with other members of the staff, I did not

share those convivialities which they provided for them

selves. How my leisure time was passed I do not dis
tinctly remember. My impression is that though I

bought Weale's book on bridges with the intention of

164

Mr. 18-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

of engineering study, yet compartively little serious work
was done. Nor did reading of a non-professional kind
occupy much space ; save, indeed, novel-reading, of

which there was a good deal.

   Nevertheless it seems from my letters that there were

commonly subjects of inquiry before me. Always I was

more originative than receptive. Occupation with other

people's thoughts was so much less interesting than occu
pation with my own. Correspondence shows that this
was the case during these times at Worcester as during

both earlier and later times. My taste for mathematics,
or rather for geometry, is habitually shown: something
like half of the space in letters being occupied either with
questions propounded or with questions solved. By way
of showing the ordinary mental activities during this
period I cannot do better than string together a series of
extracts. Under date November 10, 1838, after being
at Worcester some six or seven weeks, I wrote :--

   " You will be glad to hear that I have got into a more

regular system of study since I have been in Worcester. I

am beginning to feel the good effects of strict discipline, both
as regards the capability of continued application and the

pleasure which I find in the pursuit. I have had considerable

success in the solution of problems, chiefly those contained

in the exercises at the end of Chambers' Euclid. I have

made out the first 16 in the first book, all those in the second,
and the first 11 of those in the third."

And there follow some three pages of demonstrations.

In a letter of December 2, occurs the passage :-- " I
thought I would try a question in Mechanics the other
day and so set myself the following problem "--one con

            165

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-40

against a wall when a man of a specified weight was

standing at a specified point on it.

   A letter of December 31 contains " a method of draw

ing the curve made by unrolling the oblique section of a
cylinder," and also some designs for bridges of simple
kinds. On January 19, 1839, some paragraphs were filled
in describing a way of projecting shadows with illustra
tions ; and then follows the passage :--

   " I have become quite idle and stupid lately. I expect I

am beginning to fill out a little and that all the energies are

directed to bodily development. I do not recollect that you
gave me your opinion whilst I was in Derby upon one of the
questions I asked you. To what extent is it expedient to
force the mind against the inclination? I should like to
hear what my uncle Thomas says upon this head. It seems

to me to be rather important to be able to distinguish between
idleness and mental debility."

   A very different subject occupies space in a letter of
March 10:--

  " I have not come to any distinct conclusion why the Earth

should fall to the Sun in less than a quarter of a year. The
obstacle in the way of calculation is the increase of attrac
tion as well as the accelerated velocity, and how to combine
the two ratios is the question. From your manner of putting

the case I should be led to suppose that there is some simple

and conclusive reason for it. Many of the things which
formerly used to appear very simple now appear complicated,

on account of the many collateral circumstances which I

used to overlook."

   How habitual was this speculative thinking was well
shown in the subsequent July. My father then paid me
a visit of something like a fortnight, on his way to South
Wales, where he was going to spend part of his mid

                                                         166

.Et. 18-20]         LIFE AT WORCESTER

summer vacation. The period was evidently utilized for

scientific discussions, as witness this extract from a letter

written by him to my mother at the time :--
  " I believe I must leave Worcester in my own defence for

Herbert provides me with problems of so interesting a kind

both to himself and to me that I find it difficult to relax

entirely from mental pursuits and allow my mind to run
wild."

Doubtless his presence acted as a stimulus, and there

resulted even more speculation than usual.

   A paragraph having some significance of another kind
was written in August, 1839:--

   " You will be glad to hear that I have had an addition of
£15 to my salary, making on the whole £135. . . I have

been given to understand that Mr. Hughes' letter of recom

mendation to the    Directors was highly flattering, and he
evidently expected
than was granted.   that I should have had a greater addition
                    However, I am quite satisfied as it is."

A letter of October 9, 1839, yields a quotable passage :--

  " I have just returned from a journey to Stourbridge, near
Birmingham, where I have been staying for a few days on
Company's business. I went to see after some points and

crossings which you heard me mention as chiefly in my

hands, and to give some directions and information concern

ing them."

   Some sentences worth reproducing bear the date

November 18, 1839:--
  " I have been occupying my leisure lately in investigating

transverse strength in all its forms. Several theories have

suggested themselves, but I have not succeeded in coming to

any very satisfactory issue.                       The

  " I have had some very interesting work lately.

                    167

                     AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY     [1838-40

heretofore, and I can generally manage to persuade Mr.

Hughes to agree to my plans."

The mental excursiveness exemplified during previous
years is thus variously exemplified afresh.

This mental excursiveness occasionally had useful

results. Some of the passages which are quoted below,

showing this, are of earlier dates than some of those

given above; but they are here separated as being in

stances in which theory led to practice.  Writing on

March 10, 1839, I said :--

   " You need not be afraid of my studying skew bridges or
any other subject merely so as to be able to draw by rule. I

never remember, nor even take any interest in, a subject

which I do not understand; and when I do study anything

it is generally with the intent to understand the principles.

All I at present know of skew arches, and the method I have

adopted in drawing them, are original. The only thing I

remember to have borrowed from Mr. Fox, is his definition

of a spiral plane."

   There presently followed a new plan of projecting the

spiral courses in bridges of this kind ; and this plan I set

forth in an article contributed to The Civil Engineer and

Architect's Journal for May, 1839. It is reproduced in
Appendix A, not because it has any interest for the

general reader, but because it was my first published

essay, save the two letters before mentioned which were

written when a boy of fifteen.

   During the latter part of 1839 the preparations of plans
for crossings and sidings at various stations was put into

my hands. A device for saving trouble was one of the

consequences. Curves of very large radius had to be

                     168

JEt. 18-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

difficult to manage, I bethought me of an instrumental

application of the geometrical truth that angles in the
same segment of a circle are equal to one another. An
obvious implication is that if an angle be made rigid, and

its arms be obliged to move through the two points

terminating the segment, the apex of the angle must

describe a circle. In pursuance of this idea I had made

an instrument hinged like a foot-rule, but capable of

having its hinge screwed tight in any position, and carry
ing a pen or pencil. Two needles thrust into the paper
at the desired points, being pressed against by the arms of

the instrument, as it was moved from side to side, its pen

or pencil described the arc of a circle. When about to

publish a description of this appliance, I discovered that

it had been already devised, and was known as

Nicholson's Cyclograph.

  A letter of March 12, 1840, contains the paragraph :--
" I have got an improvement in the apparatus for giving

and receiving the mail-bags from railway trains;" and

in the next letter are sketches and descriptions. Someone

had been sent on to the London and Birmingham Rail

way to make drawings of an appliance of this kind, which

was there in use, designed by Mr. Dockray. Perception

of its needless complexity led me to devise a simpler one,

of which I had a working model made. It was the same

as that which is now everywhere in use. Doubtless it

was re-devised by someone else.

With the above extracts may be joined one which

shows that the speculative tendency was occasionally

qualified by the experimental.   It is from a letter dated

March 4, 1840:--
" I have been modelling a little in pipe-clay since I came

             169

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-40

finished one ornament composed of leaves of somewhat after

the manner of the decoration in the old Gothic churches, and I

have taken a cast in plaster of Paris. Not that it was worthy
of such an honour, but merely for the sake of practice. . . .

Jackson and I are proceeding vigorously with our chemical

experiments. We devote two evenings in the week to manip
ulations, besides thinking over the phenomena between times.
We had three other members when first the idea was started,
but they have all dropped off."

   Murray, the lecturer on Chemistry, had recently been
at Worcester, and a letter shows that I, and probably
also Jackson, had attended one of his lectures. This led
to the making of the experiments above named. They

were carried on in an attic over the office : subscrip
tions from some half-dozen having sufficed to purchase

apparatus.

   My father's letters written during this period from

time to time called my attention to religious questions

and appealed to religious feelings -- seeking for some
response. So far as I can remember they met with none,
simply from inability to say anything which would be

satisfactory to him, without being insincere.
   How had this state of mind, unlike that general

throughout our family, arisen? There were, probably,
several causes. In childhood the learning of hymns,
always, in common with other rote-learning, disagreeable
to me, did not tend to beget any sympathy with the ideas

they contained ; and the domestic religious observances
on Sunday evenings, added to those of the day, instead of
tending to foster the feeling usually looked for, did the

reverse. As already indicated in Part I, my father had,

170

/Et. 18-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

ence, a repugnance to priestly rule and priestly cere

monies. This repugnance I sympathized with : my nature

being, indeed, still more than his perhaps, averse
to ecclesiasticism. Most likely the aversion conspired
with other causes to alienate me from ordinary forms of

religious worship.
   Memory does not tell me the extent of my divergence

from current beliefs. There had not taken place any pro

nounced rejection of them, but they were slowly losing

their hold. Their hold had, indeed, never been very
decided : " the creed of Christendom " being evidently
alien to my nature, both emotional and intellectual. To

many, and apparently to most, religious worship yields a
species of pleasure. To me it never did so; unless,

indeed, I count as such the emotion produced by sacred
music. A sense of combined grandeur and sweetness

excited by an anthem, with organ and cathedral archi
tecture to suggest the idea of power, was then, and
always has been, strong in me -- as strong, probably, as in

most--stronger than in many. But the expressions of

adoration of a personal being, the utterance of laudations,
and the humble professions of obedience, never found in

me any echoes. Hence, when left to myself, as at

Worcester and previously in London, I spent my Sun

days either in reading or in country walks.
   In those days there was not any decided conviction

about the propriety or impropriety of this course. Criti

cism had not yet shown me how astonishing is the suppo

sition that the Cause from which have arisen thirty

millions of Suns with their attendant planets, took the
form of a man, and made a bargain with Abraham to give

him territory in return for allegiance. I had not at that

             171

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                               [1838-40

the singing of his praises, and angry with the infinitesimal

beings he has made when they fail to tell him perpetually

of his greatness. It had not become manifest to me how

absolutely and immeasurably unjust it would be that for

Adam's disobedience (which might have caused a harsh
man to discharge his servant), all Adam's guiltless

descendants should be damned, with the exception of a
relatively few who accepted the " plan of salvation,"

which the immense majority never heard of. Nor had I

in those days perceived the astounding nature of the

creed which offers for profoundest worship, a being

who calmly looks on while myriads of his creatures are

suffering eternal torments. But, though no definite prop

ositions of this kind had arisen in me, it is probable that

the dim consciousness out of which they eventually

emerged, produced alienation from the established beliefs

and observances.

  There was, I believe, a further reason -- one more

special to myself than are those which usually operate.
An anecdote contained in the account of my early life

at Hinton, shows how deeply rooted was the conscious

ness of physical causation. It seems as though I knew

by intuition the necessity of equivalence between cause
and effect--perceived, without teaching, the impossibility

of an effect without a cause appropriate to
a                                                                              and the

     if

                                                                       a
                                                                          it,
certainty that an effect, relevant in kind and in quantity

to cause, must in every case be produced. The acquisi

tion of scientific knowledge, especially physical, had

coroperated with the natural tendency thus shown; and

had practically excluded the ordinary idea of the super

natural. A breach in the course of causation had come

to be, not an impossible thought, yet thought never

172

M.T. 18-jo]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

became more and more alien to the set of convictions
gradually formed in me, and slowly dropped away un
awares. When the change took place it is impossible to

say, for it was a change having no marked stages. All

which now seems clear is that it had been unobtrusively

going on during my stay at Worcester.

   Capt. Moorsom was a man of kindly nature, and felt
much interest in the welfares of those who were sub

ordinate to him. One of his ways of showing this is
implied in the following passage from a letter to my
father dated December 2, 1838:--

  " I forgot to mention to you in my former letters that we

have a club, consisting of all the individuals belonging to
the engineering department of the railway. We meet and
dine together at Capt. Moorsom's every two months, and in
the evening, subjects connected with the railway and pre
viously fixed upon are discussed, every individual being
allowed to make observations. We have a club-uniform

which, by the way, I was forced to get rather against my

will."

  Very soon I took a share in the proceedings by reading

a paper on the setting-out of curves, with designs for an
instrument specially adapted for the purpose. Still-extant
diagrams show that my method was bad. Instead of being

one which continually divided and sub-divided the effects
of inexact observations, it was one which continually

multiplied such effects. A letter written home on May 26,

1839, says :--

   " I am just about to commence a series of experiments

upon kyanized timber, to ascertain its strength as compared
with that of the wood in its natural state. This was dele
gated to me at our last meeting at Capt. Moorsom's."

                                                          173

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-40

   Then, d propos of this same matter, there occurs in a
letter, dated August, the passage which follows :--

   " I made my first attempt at a speech at our last dinner at

the Captain's which occurred a fortnight since. We had
arranged that our report upon kyanized timber [Bishopp had
been joined with me] should have been postponed till the
next meeting, and consequently I went quite unprepared ;

but finding that it was expected that I should say something
I made a few observations and was gradually drawn into the

subject and much to my astonishment without feeling any

nervousness."

   No results of any moment came out of the inquiry.
No appreciable difference was found between the
strength of wood which had been subjected to the action
of bichloride of mercury and that which had not.

   Any one who, on a certain morning towards the close
of January, 1840, happened to be on the bridge which
spans the Severn at Worcester, would have been much
surprised had he looked over the parapet. In mid-stream,
just below the centre arch, was a boat containing a man
evidently charged to manage it. Attached to one of the
thwarts next to the bow, was a rope-ladder. The upper
end of this rope-ladder was fastened to the balustrade of

the bridge ; and, climbing up the ladder, was to be seen a
young fellow of something like twenty, who appeared to
be in a somewhat precarious position. What the meaning
of the proceeding might be, a passing spectator would
have been puzzled to say.

   The young man, as will probably be inferred, was

myself, and that I did not come to grief is astonishing.

For, on the one hand, had the ladder been much inclined

174

JEt. 1S-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

under side ; while, on the other hand, in proportion as its

position approached the vertical, the strain exerted upon
it by the boat held in a tolerably swift stream, joined
with the strain of my weight, seemed very likely to cause

breakage. I had, however, taken care to test the ladder
well before using it. Its strength proved adequate, and I

succeeded in my aim.

   But what was I doing in so strange a position? will

still be the question. The explanation is contained in
the following paragraph written to my father on Janu
ary 18: --

   " You will remember our bridge over the Severn at
Worcester. I have to-day been deputed by Capt. Moorsom
to take the requisite dimensions for making a drawing of it
during the course of the ensuing week. It seems that it is
in contemplation by the Trustees to increase the width of the
bridge, and I am to assist Capt. Moorsom in making an
economical design for so doing."

   Here occurred a temptation to independent thinking,
and, as usual, the temptation was not resisted. There
was, moreover, the usual lack of reticence --a lack which,

had my superior not been very good-tempered, would
probably have been injurious to me. For, while making
drawings for a widening of the bridge in pursuance of

Capt. Moorsom's plan, I suggested a plan which ap

peared to me better. He was not at all offended by my

audacity ; and it was agreed that both plans should be

sent in.

   And now there came a considerable change in the
course of my life ; entailing, alike, difference in abode and
difference in occupation.

             175

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY            [1838-40

gineering secretary to Capt. Moorsom was filled by Mr.

F. H. P. Wetherall, a son of Capt. (afterwards Admiral)
Wetherall. Either because he had no faculty for engi

neering, or because he did not see how the functions he

discharged under Capt. Moorsom conduced to profes

sional advancement, he resigned : sometime in 1839. He
was followed by a military man, Capt. Whitty --a gentle

man who many years after became one of the Inspectors

of Prisons. He, too, presently grew dissatisfied with the

prospects afforded by his position. When, early in 1840,

he left, one of our staff at Worcester was asked by Capt.

Moorsom to undertake secretarial duties, and did so for

a time; but, like his predecessors, he either disliked the

work or did not see his way to benefit by it. Hence there
resulted the following letter: --

   " Dear Spencer, -- Bishopp does not fancy doing Secre

tary in preference to iron work. I therefore wish to offer

the change of post for about a month or six weeks to you,
and you will entirely use your own choice as to accepting it

or not. If you come here it will be necessary to live at or

near Powick, and lodgings are now vacant near this house,

and you will have a finger in the pie for all that goes on,
although your attention will be mainly directed to corre

spondence. . . .       " Truly yours,
   "31st March, 1840.             " W. S. Moorsom."

   I did not long hesitate to accept the post under the
conditions named. A letter to my father, dated April 4,

speaks of that day as the third of my initiation in secre

tarial work. It goes on to say :--
  " Hitherto I have walked over in the morning ; dined

with the Captain; and returned after the conclusion of my

duties.

                       176

K.r. 18-20]  LIFE AT WORCESTER

   " I think I shall receive much benefit from the few weeks
drudging I am to have. Already I have rubbed off a great deal
of my dread of correspondence ; and as to my writing I find

that instead of as heretofore having to urge my pen along

with difficulty it now seems as though it were inclined to

run away from me. . . .

   "Our chemical experiments (or as Ramkin the office-

keeper called them our comical experiments) as you may
suppose are knocked on the head by my adjournment to Pike

(Ramkin's edition of Powick). The apparatus, however, are
remaining to take the chance of their being resumed."

   As its statements imply, this letter refers to a transi
tional period of a few days--belonging neither wholly to
my life at Worcester nor wholly to my life at Powick.

But now all that follows, rightly comes into a new

chapter.

             13 177

                     CHAPTER VIII.

                  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK.

                         1840. Mt. 20.

  About three miles out of Worcester, on the way to

Malvern, lies the little village of Powick, just where the
surface begins to rise out of the valley of the river Teme ;
and some quarter of a mile from the village, on the rising
ground, stands the house, King's End, which was the
residence of our engineer-in-chief, Capt. Moorsom. Be
tween this house and lodgings in the village, my life for
some few months was now to be passed. The following
are extracts from a letter dated 15th April, 1840:--

   " I am going on swimmingly with my duties as secretary ;
I suppose I wrote about eight or ten letters to-day besides

endorsing some two or three times the number and sundry
other little matters. Capt. Moorsom is treating me very
kindly in every respect, it would hardly be possible to show
more consideration and regard for my welfare than he is
doing.

   " He has (of his own accord) been advising me to practise
levelling for the purpose of making myself familiar with
the mechanical use of the instrument and has volunteered his
own level (which has just been put in order) for the purpose.

    " He takes every opportunity of pointing out what he
thinks may be useful to me and invites me to come and sit

with them in the evening whenever I feel inclined to do so.

Mrs. Moorsom also acts in a very amiable manner upon
every occasion. . . .

                                                   178

/Et. 20]  SOME MONTHS AT POVVICK

  " I should very well like to pay a little attention to botany ;

but there are several reasons which militate against it at the

present time -- 1st, I have to devote part of my spare time to

the practice of levelling; 2nd, the Captain recommends me

to study geology ; and, 3rd, I have so many important books
that I am anxious to purchase when I can spare money that
I do not feel inclined to buy a work so very irrelevant to the
profession. I don't mean to say that I do not think it worth

while to read Jussieu, but that it is only under present

circumstances I do not deem it advisable. I am not so

illiberal as to think any department of information unworthy

of study. . . .

  " I was thinking the other day that I should like to make

public some of my ideas upon the state of the world and

religion, together with a few remarks on education. I think,
however, that I may employ my time better at present."

   Merely noting that the last paragraph, amusing as

coming from a young fellow not quite twenty, is at once

illustrative of that self-confidence shown in so many other

ways, and is curiously significant of things to come, I
return to the first part of the letter. As I was treated with

great cordiality by the chief, my position was a pleasant
one. The amount of work was moderate; the leisure

was available for country walks; and the spending of
Sunday afternoons and evenings at King's End, afforded

a social intercourse which my life for some years had

lacked. A new experience should also be named --the

establishing of relations with a number of children, with

whom I soon became a favourite, as is shown by letters
received from them after I went away.

   Secretarial work was from time to time agreeably
broken by journeys to different parts of the line -- journeys

on which I accompanied Capt. Moorsom in my official

          179

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840

Gloucester, Bromsgrove, &c, varied by occasional expe

ditions I made on his behalf, to inspect, report, and

transact matters of business, gave me many enjoyable

relaxations.

   Which was the best dictionary to buy, was an inquiry
made in one of my letters to my father ; and the inquiry
reminds me of the need there then appeared to be for the
use of one.

  I have often wondered how it happened that up to so

late a period, my spelling continued very defective.
Letters written home from London and from Worcester

surprise me by the numerous errors they contain -- most
of them obviously due to inadvertence, but here and there

one apparently due to ignorance. It is clear that I did

not read my letters over before sending them, otherwise a
large part of the errors must have been noticed and
corrected ; and that they were habitually sent off unread
exemplifies my constitutional idleness. Now that, in
search of an explanation of the mistakes ascribable to

ignorance, I look back upon my antecedents, I recognize

a sufficient cause. As shown in early chapters, my edu
cation was in but very small degree linguistic. No

lessons had been given to me in English grammar, my
father having, out of regard for my health, interdicted
anything like pressure; and hence all the writing which

accompanies grammar-learning was missed. So, too,
the long continued efforts made, first at Derby and
afterwards at Hinton, to gain some knowledge of
Latin and Greek (which were accompanied by grammar-
learning only to the extent of mastering the declensions
and part of the conjugations, and by a little easy transla

180

/Et. 20]  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

Hence, beyond such amount of writing as my mathe

matical culture entailed, none was needed save for letters

home. There were, indeed, a few occasions on which my
aunt made me write from dictation ; but such discipline

was not carried to any extent. So that it would, in fact,
have been remarkable had I, under such circumstances,

learned to spell correctly.

  I do not understand how it happened, but my sense of

responsibility having been sufficiently aroused, the defect
Ibecame relatively inconspicuous.
                                   did not buy a dic

tionary until after my secretarial work had ended ; and

the evidence shows that there was comparatively little

need for one. Of course such errors as had previously

been caused by carelessness were now excluded; and, as

for the rest, it seems that there had been in me a dormant

knowledge which was forthcoming when the demand for

it became imperative.

  As far back as I can remember my father had made
style a subject of study --often amusing himself by taking

up a book and making emendations on the margin ; and

now that a good opportunity occurred, he endeavoured

to interest me in the subject. In a letter of his written
the day before my 20th birthday, he says :--

   " It is with composition as it is with virtue and holiness,

no person sees the beauty of it till he begins to practise it.
I am glad indeed that your eyes are beginning to open and

to see what a great attainment it is to be able to write freely

and well."

  Some criticisms which I had made on a pamphlet

recently published by my uncle Thomas, suggested this

last remark ; but nothing in the way of study came from
this opening of my eyes. Not until, at the age of twenty-

          181

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY     [1840

of expression, did the subject of style attract me. But

then, having a theory to work out, I found all relevant

books became interesting, and there presently resulted an
essay on the subject. Sequences of this kind were char
acteristic of me.

   Let me remark, in passing, that no great results can be
counted upon from the study of style. One who is clear
headed, and who throughout life has daily heard well-

framed speech, is pretty certain to have a style which is

lucid if nothing more ; and in the absence of either of

these antecedents, the study of style will do but little.
The most to be expected is that marked defects of expres
sion and of arrangement may be rendered manifest in the
course of revision. And. while not much can be done
towards achieving correctness and clearness, still less can
be done towards acquiring vigour, picturesqueness, and
variety. Innate powers alone can produce these.

In place of narrative some extracts from letters will

best indicate the  course of my life during April and

May :--            have an assistant coming -- a gentleman

   " Tomorrow we      , who is, I suppose, about to enter the

named Capt. M

profession under the chief's auspices, and his employment as
...an introduction to engineering to consist in endorsing letters,
&c, &c.            so that having him as my Stnike (as the

Captain calls him) I shall have a good portion of the work

taken off my hands.
   " Friday last saw a repetition of our engineers' meeting.

. . . In consequence of my filling the berth of secretary I

was, much to my surprise, requested by the chief to take one

end of the table, and there being between twenty and thirty

present the situation was no sinecure.

                   182

JEr. 20]  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

started from this with the Captain in his gig at 9 a.m., and
accompanied him to Bromsgrove, where after spending an
hour or so in examining the works, and getting some refresh
ment, we parted --he proceeding onward to Birmingham and

I occupying the remainder of the day in walking back along

the line.
   " These, you see, are pretty good proofs that the Captain

has not fallen off in his kind treatment. . . . He is, in

fact, the best specimen of a perfect gentleman that I have

ever come near. Mrs. Moorsom, also, is quite as worthy of

admiration in her conduct to all around her. I spent the

whole of Good Friday with them, and taking the average since

I have been here, I pass about two evenings in the week at

their house.
   " The affair of the Severn Bridge is now under considera

tion by the trustees, and the result will be known next
Tuesday. The proposition appears to have been very
favourably received from the account Capt. Moorsom gave
of the proceedings, and he says that my design is to be
adopted if they conclude to execute the improvement. So

that you see he has not stopped short in his disinterested

conduct on this point."

Then follow two pages of description and argument con

cerning a plan I proposed for testing the qualities of the

waters to be employed for locomotives : the notion being

that, instead of ascertaining the amount of impurity by

analysis  (the nature of  it  being relatively unimportant),
it might  be ascertained  by   " that modification of the hy

drometer called the areometer or delicate measurer."      In

a letter of 4th May is the following :--

" I have just commenced an article on my theory of

trussed beams. There has just occurred a very good oppor

tunity of bringing it forward as a criticism or series of

remarks on an article in the last number of the Journal.

                              183

         AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                ^840

  " I intend to make some experiments for my own satis

faction and also for the purpose of making out a clear

case."

A diary of some days well exhibits one of the inter

ludes of my life at Powick. A partial opening of the line
was about to take place :--

   " Monday -- Hurry scurry till 1 p.m. to get through busi
ness before starting-- set off in the gig with Capt. M. to

Eckington (15 miles from Powick); from thence to Chel
tenham by one of the local trial trains --slept at Chel
         Tuesday --To Eckington and back (24 miles)
tenham.

by morning trial train.-- Transacted secretarial work on return
--walked on line to look at works --went to Tewkesbury (10

miles) from Cheltenham by railway to make arrangements

for finding friction of locomotive. (In the afternoon we

happened accidentally to have two engines going the same

way on the two lines of rails, and a race was the consequence
-- went side by side at between 30 and 40 miles an hour for
a mile or so, and shook hands from one train to the other) --
                      Wednesday-- Made some arrange
slept at Tewkesbury.

ments for experiments on loco. -- went to Cheltenham (10
miles) --took measurements of evaporating surface--went
through secretary's work -- ran to and fro with engines --
                                         Thursday --
returned to Tewkesbury and slept there.
Experiments on friction --walked to Bredon to meet trial

train --went from there to Cheltenham -- accompanied Capt.
M. to Gloucester in the gig-- transacted correspondence, &c,

and looked over works at Gloucester-- returned to Chelten
ham --dined, and went down with evening trial train to
Eckington -- returned to Cheltenham --drove Capt. M.'s gig

to Tewkesbury (horse ran away and went at a gallop for a

                      184

JEr. 20I  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

taking a line of rails from station down to the quays on the

river side ; propose to make alteration in the bed of the
river, &c, to facilitate arrangements -- returned with him in
the gig to Powick and worked till 8 this evening to get

matters straight."

It was about this time, namely, the beginning of June,

that Capt. Moorsom displayed at once his kind feeling

and his good opinion of me by a letter to my father. Its

expressions were such as gave great pleasure to both of

us: my father's pleasure being especially shown in the

reply, of which he sent me a copy. Capt. Moorsom's

letter, however, is nowhere to be found. It was, I doubt

not, taken great care of; and, as sometimes happens in

such cases, has disappeared. It is quite as well, however ;
for, had it been extant, I should have been in great doubt

whether to quote it or not to quote it.

  Though a little out of chronological order, I may

perhaps better here than elsewhere include an incident

which shortly afterwards occurred. It is indicated in the
following letter: --

" Dear Spencer, --Will you go with me to the Deepdene?

We shall probably go up from Cheltenham to London this

evening and return so as to be here on Wednesday morning
--but we may be detained till Thursday.

  " If you accede to this I will have the gig ready for you

here at 9} a.m., and you can take it into Wor'ster and we

will start thence about 12J.  " Truly yrs.,

                              "W. S. Moorsom."

   For the tentative expression of this note, the reason

was that this expedition to Deepdene was a hors d'ceuvre.
My engagement with the Birmingham and Gloucester

Railway, of course, did not include taking part in anv

                                                         185

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840

other work which Capt. Moorsom engaged to do ; and
probably it was the consciousness of this which led him

to ask rather than to order.

   Writing to my father from Powick, on 2nd July, I

said :--

   " I have never seen any place I like so well as this said
' Deepdene.' A week would have passed very pleasantly away

in looking over the house and strolling about the grounds.

I remained in the mansion during my two days' stay and had

consequently plenty of opportunity of looking over the
collections of paintings and sculpture."

   Of the work which Capt. Moorsom had undertaken to
design and superintend for the owner of Deepdene --at
that time the well-known H. T. Hope, M.P., author of
Anastasius -- a part was the building of an ornamental

wooden bridge over a lane which runs through the park.

Of this I had made the drawings, and while at Deepdene

staked out the foundations. When at Dorking 50 years

after, I made inquiries concerning this bridge, but found

that alterations in the grounds had caused removal
of it.

    Some pages back reference is made to certain proposed
experiments in verification of a theory of trussed beams.

A letter of June 6, however, describes something quite
unlike a verification. It runs :--

  " Last night I made the experiments on trussed beams
which I mentioned to you. The results, however, have quite
disconcerted me, and appear, as far as I can see, to throw

my theory to the winds. Not that the strengths are different

from what I had expected, for I have not yet had time to

see how they would agree with my hypothesis, but that the

appearance of the fracture does not bear out the position I

had assumed."

                                                         186

/Et. 20]  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

   Doubtless it was well to have occasionally a positive
disproof of my conclusions. There needed no fostering
of self-confidence, but rather the reverse.

   This quotation and this comment fitly serve to intro

duce the fact that during these months there had been

going on the usual speculative activity, ending now in

theoretical and now in practical results: the last being
predominant. Let me first name the purely theoretical

ones.

   It may be remembered that an early chapter states

that when seventeen I hit on a geometrical theorem of

some interest. This remained with me in the form of an
empirical truth ; but during the latter part of my resi
dence in Worcester, responding to a spur from my father,

I made a demonstration of it ; and, now that it had

reached this developed form, it was published in The Civil
Engineer and Architect's Journal for July, 1840. It is

reproduced in Appendix B. I did not know, at the time,

that this theorem belongs to that division of mathematics
at one time included under the name " Descriptive Geom
etry," but known in more recent days as " The Geometry
of Position "--a division which includes many marvellous
truths. Perhaps the most familiar of these is the truth

that if to three unequal circles anywhere placed, three

pairs of tangents be drawn, the points of intersection of
the tangents fall in the same straight line -- a truth which

I never contemplate without being struck by its beauty at

the same time that it excites feelings of wonder and of

awe: the fact that apparently unrelated circles should in
every case be held together by this plexus of relations,
seeming so utterly incomprehensible. The property of a

          187

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                  [1840

nothing like so marvellous an aspect, but is nevertheless

sufficiently remarkable.

   Of the more practical results of the speculative tend
ency some are described in a letter of 25th June :--

  " I have two very nice little contrivances to explain to you
but do not know whether I shall be able to enter fully into
the detail. -- The first (which is not theoretical, for I have

already put it in practice) is a little instrument for showing

by inspection (with the necessary data) the velocity of an

engine --That is to say, suppose an engine and train goes

up a gradient of 1 mile 37 chains long in 2 minutes and 27
seconds, what is the velocity per hour? This instrument

shows it by merely adjusting the scale to correspond with

the above data. . . .
   " The principle is very simple (being only another appli

cation of that valuable proposition the 6th in the 6th B.)
and you no doubt see the application at once."

A description and drawing of this instrument will be
found in Appendix C under the name " Velocimeter  "
                                                      :  an

illegitimate name but a convenient one. The letter from

which the above paragraph is quoted, continues as

follows :

   " When I gave the one I have made to Capt. M. he was
inclined to say that I had been uselessly expending my time

in making an instrument which was of little practical use,

until I reminded him that had Bishopp (one of the staff

who has been superintending the trials of the 'Americans')
had such an apparatus it would have saved him between

one and two thousand such calculations as the one I have

given as an example, and a good portion of a week in time.

   " I find that I shall not be able to discuss the second one
till my next, so I will only tell you that it is an instrument

for measuring the tractive force of a locomotive engine

188

JEz. 20)  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

of different gradients, velocities and loads, . . . that the in

strument is hydrostatic [hydrodynamic I ought to have said]

and that the index will be the compression of a column of
air in a glass tube (a column of mercury being interposed
between the water and air) : the principle is such that the
index will give the medium of all the irregularities of
pull."

   A subsequent letter contains drawings of the proposed
apparatus, but nothing came of the idea. I had no oppor

tunity of carrying it out.
   One other appliance, though some months subsequent

in date of origin to the velocimeter, may conveniently be

named here. I called it a Scale of Equivalents. In the

course of the experiments on the strength of kyanized
timber named in the last chapter, there arose the need for
changing the denomination of the measurements taken.

They had been set down in inches and tenths, and it was

decided that they should be reduced to tenths and
hundredths of a foot. Having a dislike to the mental

labour which the required calculations implied, I was

prompted to find a method of effecting the change in an
easier way. The simple appliance which served for this

special purpose was afterwards developed into a more
complex appliance available for general purposes of many

kinds.

  I described this " Scale of Equivalents " in an article

which, sometime after, was sent to The Civil Engineer and
Architect's Journal. It was not published, for the reason
that making the lithographed illustration would have
entailed too great a cost. No account of the instrument

anywhere exists ; and I have therefore thought it well

to give one. See Appendix D.

          189

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840

should here reproduce a passage written by my father to

me on July 3rd :--
   " I am glad you find your inventive powers are beginning

to develop themselves. Indulge a grateful feeling for it.
Recollect, also, the never-ceasing pains taken with you on
that point in early life."

The last sentence is quoted not only in justice to my
father, but also as conveying a lesson to educators.
Though the results which drew forth his remark were
in the main due to that activity of the constructive imag

ination which I inherited from him, yet his discipline

during my boyhood and youth doubtless served to in
crease it. Culture of the humdrum sort, given by those
who ordinarily pass for teachers, would have left the

faculty undeveloped.*

   With the approach of midsummer came an experience
wholly unrelated to engineering, and but indirectly re
lated to the life of the last three months --an experience

which was quite new to me.

* Let me name a significant fact, published while the proof of this

chapter is under correction. In The Speaker for April 9, 1892, Mr.

Poulteney Bigelow gives an account of an interview with Mr. Edison,

the celebrated American inventor. Here are some quotations from it :

" To my question as to where he found the best young men to train as
his assistants, he answered emphatically -- ' The college-bred ones are
             . I don't know why, but they don't seem able to begin
not worth a

at the beginning and give their whole heart to their work.' Mr. Edison

did not conceal his contempt for the college training of the present day

in so far as it failed to make boys practical and fit to earn their living."

With this opinion may be joined two startling facts : the one that Mr.

Edison, probably the most remarkable inventor who ever lived, is him

self a self-trained man ; and the other that Sir Benjamin Baker, the de

signer and constructor of the Forth Bridge, the grandest and most

original bridge in the world, received no regular engineering educa

tion.

             190

/Ex. 20]  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

Mrs. Moorsom and family had gone in May to Ryde, in

the Isle of Wight, and during the early part of June
Capt. Moorsom had been for a time staying with them.

When June was nearly half through, business brought
him back for a few days, and with him came a relative --

a lady about my own age. The pressing affairs having

been attended to, he again joined his family at Ryde,

leaving this visitor sole mistress of the house for the ten

days or so which followed. Of course we had been duly

introduced during the Captain's brief sojourn : the intro

duction making me acquainted with a young lady suffi

ciently good-looking, though not perhaps a beauty, but

intelligent, unconventional, amiable, and in various ways

attractive. Whether Capt. Moorsom supposed that she

would restrict herself to the rest of the house, or whether

he foresaw that she might occasionally visit the room

which served as an office, I do not know ; but this last
result soon occurred. How it occurred I cannot re

member. Probably the bringing of letters became the
occasion for a " Good morning." Presently this daily

salute grew into something more, until by-and-by the

greater part of the day was spent by us togther in the

office.

  Of course the intimacy which thus sprang up with one

just growing into womanhood, was extremely agreeable;

the more so because my previous life had kept me almost

wholly out of female society. As I had no sisters, there

had been no visits of girls to our house, and no visits on

my part to houses where there were girls. Though, while
at Hinton, I had sometimes seen the sisters of one of my

fellow-pupils, P  , whose family resided in Bath (con

cerning one of whom, a very beautiful girl, her brother

                  191

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840

cally, this intercourse which now commenced in the study
or office at King's End, was my first experience of any
thing more than mere formal meetings.

   That Capt. Moorsom should have been so incautious as
thus to leave two young people together without restraint

or oversight, surprises me when I think about it. Possi

bly, knowing she was engaged, he thought that the pre
existing relation would furnish a sufficient check. But,

if this was his thought, he did not duly consider me in

the matter: leaving me unguarded by the knowledge.
However, no harm of any kind happened, notwithstand
ing the length of time we daily passed together. Her
society was doubtless beneficial ; though not, perhaps,
conducive to the fulfilment of duties. Probably, among

other effects, it tended to diminish my brusquerie. An

incident proves that this was conspicuous. One day, after

Ifsome speech of mine, she remarked -- " anyone else had
said that, I should have been offended." This, while it

implies my bluntness, also shows how quickly it had be
come manifest that it was my habit to utter thoughts with
but little consideration; and shows, too, how readily,

when this trait is recognized as innate, things which
would ordinarily imply intentional rudeness, are accepted
as matters of course.

    After the return of the family, and before any entangle
ment of feeling occurred, there came on a visit the young

gentleman to whom she was engaged: then an under
graduate at Oxford. When, one Sunday afternoon, we
sallied out for a walk with the children, she, taking his

arm, looked over her shoulder smilingly, and rather mis

chievously, to see what effect was produced on me : there

being an evident suspicion that I should not be pleased.

192

Mt. 20]      SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

not give me a shock of a serious kind. Matters had not

gone far enough for that.

The stay of this young lady at Powick became greatly

extended, and during the rest of my engagement on the

Birmingham and Gloucester Railway, which was fully

three-quarters of a year, we remained on a friendly foot
ing, and letters occasionally passed between us. One of

them may fitly be quoted, partly because it shows the

kind of relation in which we stood, and partly because it

indicates a certain opinion which I already entertained.

" My dear Mr. Spencer,     " Powick> l8 Nov- '4°-

" You sent me a few days ago a decidedly unofficial letter,

and I now propose to send you one which will come under

the same denomination. You will, perhaps, be inclined to

say I am interfering with what is no concern of mine, but I

trust the importance of the subject will excuse the presump

tion, if it is such -- I have just heard from E  that our

ideas respecting the preservation of our friends with regard

to the late dreadful accident at Bromsgrove do not at all

accord, and I was much surprised to hear that you disagree

with the opinion that all events in this world are under
the direct surveillance of the Almighty -- Mr. Hugres, who

was here to-day, says that he, Mr. Bennett and Mr. Creuze,

had intended to be upon the engine but were detained at
Cofton, and he added that they had even determined as the

platform was hot, to stand upon the steps, and had they
done so his inference is that they must have experienced

the fate of poor Scaife.

  " I do not think you can really be of opinion, that the

God who ' numbers the very hairs of our head,' was in

this case indifferent to the fate of his servants, or that his

goodness and mercy is not conspicuous in their preservation

from the dreadful fate which would probably have over

taken them.

         14 I93

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                          [1840

      " Forgive me if I have offended you by this letter. I

      assure you I had no wish but your good in writing             which
                                                  ;
I     hope you will believe and also consider me,
    It                                " Your very sincere friend,a
                                                              a
         Such small skill as had with my pencil -- certainaI   it,
      mechanical accuracy in representation, without any trace
      of genius -- had, during the summer, been utilized init          aI
      making portraits of the Moorsom children and now this
      small skill was further utilized in making portrait ofa
      this young lady. All the preceding sketches had been

      profiles, but this was three-quarter face, the only one

      ever did.
              was pretty clear that had not been for the pre-

      engagement our intimacy would have grown into some
      thing serious. This would have been misfortune, for
      she had little or nothing, and my prospects were none of

      the brightest.

          She did not marry the gentleman to whom she was at

      that time engaged. Some three years later she announced
      to him that she found herself unfit for the duties of

      clergyman's wife. Eventually she married her cousin, the
      squire of the parish of which her father had been rector.

      Returning now from this episode to the general narra

      tive, let me reproduce significant passage from lettera      :a

      of July 12, concerning my course after the close of my
      career on the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway --

      " Now  always had, and have still, as sanguine hopes
I

          I
      with regard to your electro-magnetic machine as you have.

      therefore propose to come home and to set to in earnest to

      study and experiment on the subject and to do my best with

      your assistance to perfect the invention."

                 194

JEt. 20]  SOME MONTHS AT POWICK

The passage thus written in the summer of 1840 I quote

because of its bearing on the course pursued in 1841.
   Towards the end of July a sudden change of occupa

tion, accompanied by change of residence, occurred,
caused by the issue of a law-suit. On the Lickey incline,

some short distance above the station at Bromsgrove, a
road cuts the railway obliquely. Memory would have led

me to say quite positively that the road passed by a

level crossing, and that the local authorities had entered
an action against the company for the purpose of making
them build a bridge ; but letters prove a failure of memory,
for they show that the result of the action was to force
the company to build a better bridge than they had done.

   However, causes and details aside, the result was a

migration from Powick to Bromsgrove for the purpose
of superintending the works. The business was pressing :
the date for opening that part of the line having been

fixed.

          195

                   CHAPTER IX.

                   A NOMADIC PERIOD.

               1840 --41. 2Et. 20--21.

  From Bromsgrove, on 27th July, I wrote home de

scribing specifically the nature of the task thus suddenly

entered upon.

" I am engaged in superintending the pulling-down and

re-erection of a large bridge under the inclined plane at

Bromsgrove. It is to be completed within three weeks and

four days from the commencement of the pulling-down, and

rather more than one week has already passed. I have had
...to make out the drawings, estimate, &c, and to see to the
details of the work during its progress.  I believe it

will be done in time. The contract is between one and two

thousand pounds."

  A subsequent letter, written after the completion of the
new bridge, says :--

   " You quite mistake as to the usual system of work on

railways. The greater proportion of the work done at the

bridge was by contract, and I had nothing to do with the

men except to see that they did the company justice. All

the timber work and fitting and fixing girders was, however,

done by day-labour under my own instruction. Perhaps

about half the cost of construction was in this case done

                   196

JEt. 20-21]          A NOMADIC PERIOD

not interfering in any way) ; but this was an extreme case

and the usual laws were broken through : day-work being

strictly prohibited on this railway."

  I had forgotten the fact named in this passage-- that

the responsibility for the design rested with me. It seems

needful to explain how so makeshift a structure orig

inated; lest I should be blamed for bad engineering by

any one who, being in the neighbourhood, happens to see

the bridge (if it still exists). The time allowed was so

small that there was no possibility of designing fit girders

and having them cast. Such girders as had been designed

for other purposes, and could be obtained forthwith, were

consequently used. These were, however, too short to

span the width of the road obliquely ; and the result was

that a framework, partly of these girders and partly of

strong timber balks, had to be made. I was a little

nervous about but proved strong enough. Possibly
it
              is
                    a

                          it,
                                     it
   has, during these fifty odd years, been replaced by

something more workmanlike.

   Here       passage written home on the 23rd August,

indicating another impending change.

   " left Bromsgrove yesterday, having so far completed my
   I
                I
work as to allow of my return to Powick. do not however
                                                               I

remain here.       go to-morrow to join Mr. Hughes to assist

him in finishing up the work of the G. division, and to com

plete sundry works which the Subs have left undone. [Some
little time before, the works having been mainly completed,

the sub-engineers on the G. division had ended their engage

ments.]       do not expect to have very pleasant time of it.
         II                              it
.. .           I
                                                   a
                                                      a

                                                            a
             expect, however,            will be great benefit to me in

one respect.      have always had great horror of confusion,

and never could bear anything that was not clear and straight

forward; but  I iIf  go through all that believe before me,
                                              I                   is

I  imagine that shall pretty well get over this failing."

                                         197

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840-41

   The prospect of this confusion so perturbed me that

I thought resignation of my post might be needful. But

my alarm was groundless.

   Among the various small extra works, completions,
and repairs, between Bromsgrove and Gloucester, which

I had to see executed -- making contracts, and having the
works properly done-- the only one which I remember as

of considerable importance, resulted from the imperfect
construction of the bridge over the Avon at Defford.
Capt. Moorsom had no doubt originally made rather an
underestimate of the cost of the line, as engineers ordi
narily do; but he was creditably anxious to keep within
the estimate, and hence was over-prone to economy of
construction. In some cases the effects were disastrous ;
and, among the mischiefs, was the giving way of one of
the wing-walls of the Defford bridge. Pulling-down and
re-building of this had to be achieved without interrup
tion of the traffic: one of the lines being closed and the

trains diverted on to the other. A large gap in the em

bankment was necessitated ; and the available line of
rails was shored up. The proceeding was somewhat
risky, and entailed on me considerable anxiety. No acci
dent happened, however.

   My miscellaneous activities during the autumn had
their disciplinary effects. Much business devolved on me,

and probably the experience then obtained in carrying
out many transactions, and dealing with many men, was
permanently advantageous. Here is an extract relating
to this period :--

   " I have been doing a good deal of surveying lately and
rather like it as a variety in my usual drudgery. My time is
come to a close -- I have been writing whilst waiting for a

contractor, and he is now come."

                                                   198

JEt. 20-21]  A NOMADIC PERIOD

   Walks hither and thither about the line were of course

necessitated ; and these usually had castle-building as
their concomitant. Already an early chapter has shown

how much given I was to this tempting form of mental

activity, commonly thought so dissipating ; and the habit
established in boyhood was still strong.

   It goes without saying that the air-castles built at this

time were of a different style of architecture from those
built in early days-- no longer took the form of Robinson
Crusoe adventures, or incidents such as those which the

reading of novels of the Mrs. Radcliff type had in early
days suggested. Naturally day-dreams now took a
certain colour from the actualities of my life and the pos
sibilities of its future. As the foregoing pages show,
inventions of one or other kind were commonly in my

thoughts ; and the almost necessary result was that mak
ing a fortune by successful inventions mostly formed the

subject-matter of my imaginations. Whether I became

so absorbed in these imaginations as to talk to myself in

the way that I did during boyhood, must remain an un

answered question ; for since, on the line between stations,

there were no passers by to show their surprise by star

ing at me, as sometimes happened in the streets in earlier

years, I may have soliloquized without being made aware

of it. Probably, however, the increased reticence of ap
proaching manhood checked this habit of unconscious

speech.
   While referring to this castle-building as at that time

habitual, it is worth remarking that there was no ap
proach made to any such ambition as the writing of books.
In those days there had not arisen the faintest idea of
becoming an author, still less of undertaking such a task

as that which I commenced when forty.

                                                   199

   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY               [1840-41

Part of the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway passes

through the blue lias clay, which is rich in fossils. There
were always lying about in the Worcester Office, samples

of ammonites and other forms of secondary molluscs,

which it had yielded; and on these I had gazed with in

terest. Marvellous remains of ammonites some of them

were ; or, rather, not of ammonites at all, but preserved

casts of their successive chambers, curiously inter-locked.

Now that rambles about the line gave me facilities, I was

gradually led into the study of Geology -- a very super

ficial study, however.  Writing on the 26th September,

I said :--

  " I have been taking a good deal of interest in fossil-
remains lately, and have been collecting a few specimens. I

saw portions of several Plesiosauri in a lias quarry yesterday.

One specimen was covered with what I believe to have been

a portion of skin. It followed the outline of the bones

beneath and had a rough, irregular surface such as you would

suppose the covering of such a creature would have. It

was too large to bring away, and too much mutilated to be

worth it. I carried off several vertebrae, however. I was
much pleased in discovering the other day what I believe to

have been the intention [ !] of the transverse ribs in the shell
of the ammonite."

;  This gathering of fossils was a resumption, in a newita
form, of my habits as a boy. Making a collectionitis,
indeed, the proper commencement of any natural history
study since, in the first place, conduces to concrete   of

knowledge which gives definiteness to the general ideas
subsequently reached, and, further, creates an indirect

stimulus by giving gratification to that love of acquisi

tion which exists in all.
   One result was the purchase of Lyell's Principles

                                                  200

/Et. 20-21]  A NOMADIC PERIOD

Geology, -- a work then recently published. I name this

purchase chiefly as serving to introduce a fact of con

siderable significance. I had during previous years been

cognizant of the hypothesis that the human race has been
developed from some lower race; though what degree
of acceptance it had from me memory does not say.
But my reading of Lyell, one of whose chapters was J
devoted to a refutation of Lamarck's views concerning
the origin of species, had the effect of giving me a de
cided leaning to them. Why Lyell's arguments produced;

the opposite effect of that intended, I cannot say. Prob

ably it was that the discussion presented, more clearty
than had been done previously, the conception of the
natural genesis of organic forms. The question whether

it was or was not true was more distinctly raised. My
inclination to accept it as true, in spite of Lyell's adverse

criticisms, was, doubtless, chiefly due to its harmony
with that general idea of the order of Nature towards

which I had, throughout life, been growing. Supernat-

uralism, in whatever form, had never commended itself.

From boyhood there was in me a need to see, in a more
or less distinct way, how phenomena, no matter of what
kind, are to be naturally explained. Hence, when my
attention was drawn to the question whether organic
forms have been specially created, or whether they have

arisen by progressive modifications, physically caused

and inherited, I adopted the last supposition; inadequate

as was the evidence, and great as were the difficulties in
the way. Its congfuity with the course of procedure

throughout things at large, gave it an irresistible attrac

tion ; and my belief in it never afterwards wavered, much

Ias was, in after years, ridiculed for entertaining it.

   The incident illustrates the general truth that the

                                                  201

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY     [1840-41

acceptance of this or that particular belief, is in part a
question of the type of mind. There are some minds
to which the marvellous and the unaccountable strongly
appeal, and which even resent any attempt to bring the
genesis of them within comprehension. There are other
minds which, partly by nature and partly by culture, have
been led to dislike a quiescent acceptance of the unin
telligible ; and which push their explorations until causa
tion has been carried to its confines. To this last order
of minds mine, from the beginning, belonged.

   During all this time, though moving about on the line,

I was stationed at Powick ; so as to be able to receive
instructions from Capt. Moorsom. In the autumn there

arrived a youth, E. A. B  , brother of the gentleman to

whom Miss  was engaged, with the hope of getting

some knowledge of engineering. We became friends and

remained so for years ; carrying on a correspondence.
With a plodding nature, but nothing brilliant about him,

he succeeded well in life: better, indeed, than many of
greater capacity --as often happens, for the world wants

chiefly mechanical services. Our intercourse was pleas

ant, and led to much discussion : that, indeed, being a

usual result whoever might be my companion. There

were plenty of points of difference between us, and

these continued to manifest themselves during the corre

spondence of subsequent years.

This mention of E. A. B         is in part suggested by

remembrance of the circumstances which led to his

departure. Capt. Moorsom, about to finish very soon his

work on the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway, had

found something to do in Cornwall. He was employed,

by gentlemen locally interested, to make a survey of a

                          202

Mr. 20-21]        A NOMADIC PERIOD

line which was to be called the Exeter and Falmouth

Railway. This survey was in course of execution during

the latter part of 1840. Among others, E. A. B                       was

drafted on to the staff ; and my old friend Jackson, who

had resigned his post at Worcester early in the year,

came from London to aid in this new scheme, which

promised to furnish posts to sundry of those who were

shortly to receive their conges at Worcester. Being de

tained by Birmingham and Gloucester work, I had noth

ing to do with the survey ; and, except at the last, did little

beyond volunteering a design for a species of bridge,

which it occurred to me would be desirable for spanning

the many narrow and deep ravines to be passed over by

the line. The capital obtainable for the projected railway

was not likely to be large, and this type of bridge was

specially designed with a view to cheapness. It was

taken by Capt. Moorsom to Cornwall, and, I believe, was

adopted in making the estimates. An account of with
                                                          it
drawings, was published in The Civil Engineer and             is

                                                                it,
Architect's Journal for July, 1841. Reproduction of this

among the appendices, undesirable, because                         of too
                         is
exclusively professional an interest.it
                                   it
   During his stay in Cornwall my friend Jackson wrote
me letter, of which some passages have interest.is
Ia                                                     a

               a

               I
" have to apologise to you about the sketch [to be given
                           It was very nearly completed
to me as    remembrance].

when Capt. M.'s letter came requiring my attendance.
                                                          I
                                                                    I
can assure you have not forgotten you and yours and the

many pleasant hours we have spent together.               wonder

whether we shall ever meet again. It                      word full of mean

ing, and when think of          dullens me. However, the
            I

                           203

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840-41

flirtations, your philosophic theories, your varied im

provements, and lastly, not least, your everlasting grum

blings. . . .

  " I suppose that as you are away from Worcester and

Powick you will look out for some one else upon whom to
bestow your smiles. How different from what you were

when first I knew you. Shall I call it an improvement ?
Never mind, I won't bother you any more. . . .

  "How is your collection of fossils? I hear that they are

all confined in a large box big enough to contain yourself

when you choose to make it into a travelling bedstead."

  At a later date, as above hinted, I took a considerable

share in getting up the plans of this Cornish line at the
office at Worcester. Whether the scheme went before
Parliament and was thrown out on Standing Orders, or

whether it never got so far as that, I cannot remember.

But, whatever may have been the cause, the line was not
made ; and there was disappointment for those who had

hoped to be employed on it.

   In strict chronological order there should before have
been named the fact that during the summer, while still

acting as engineering-secretary to Capt. Moorsom, I saw

something of the testing of locomotives. Commencing at
Bromsgrove, and descending some two or more miles
towards Birmingham, there is a portion of the line called
the Lickey Incline, having an inclination of 1 in 37.
For the drawing up of trains, special locomotives had

been imported from America--locomotives of great

power considering their small size ; and, on various occa

sions, we had trials of them at which I was present.

Towards the close of the year, there hence resulted an

other change in my occupation. A letter of 8th December
says :--

                                                   204

JEt 20-21]  A NOMADIC PERIOD

  " I am very doubtful, now, whether I shall be able to come
to see you at Christmas, and if I do come it will be only for

a day or two. This change in my anticipations is caused by
my having to take the place of Mr. Bishopp in the superin
tendence of the trials of engines. He has just been trans

ferred to the permanent service, and will not have time to

attend to this in conjunction with his other duties. I believe

there will be three more American engines and four English

ones to try, each of them taking from a week to a fortnight.

Several of them are now ready, and there will be no excuse

for delay, so you must make up your minds to see me for a

very short time, if at all."

   Some of these testings were commenced while the

engines were being brought up to Birmingham from the
works of the makers. Hence the following sentence dated

January 18:--
   " I have been twice into Lancashire since I wrote to you.

. . . The first of the above trips terminated in a most
complete catalogue of disasters. We were detained about
four hours on the coldest day of the whole frost, in the middle
of Chat Moss, in consequence of a trifling accident to the
engine boiler, and on the next day, shortly after leaving
Warrington, the engine burst a tube, which terminated the

second day's adventures."

The engine which thus came to grief had been made by

Mr. James Nasmyth. Before setting out with  I iIt,  had

been over his works at Patricroft, near Manchester, and

had seen various of his labour-saving machines. think

the steam-hammer had at that time been invented, and
have vague recollection of seeing one at work but this

        case in which really cannot distinguish between

memory and imagination. Mr. Nasmyth was then known
only in the engineering world, but subsequently became
is                                          ;

     a
         a

                     I

                        205

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840-41

ago created a sensation in the scientific world by his sup
posed discovery of the willow-leaf-like structure of the

Sun's surface. Subsequent observations, however, proved

that he had been under an illusion.

  I am reminded by letter that during this occupation

with the testing of engines, or rather during the intervals

from time to time spent in reducing my observations to

tabular form, the little instrument before named, the

velocimeter, proved of service in economizing the time

and labour of calculations which I had to make.

   This change of occupation entailed a change of resi

dence. Bromsgrove, the locomotive centre, was a more

convenient place for me. Hence to that place I removed

from Powick before the 10th December, and remained
there until the middle of March : not, however, being
continuously occupied in making trials of locomotives.
This is shown by the following passage written on Febru
ary 4, 1841. The first line refers to the alarm felt at
home.

   " There is no more danger of my being hurt by the engine
trials. The directors have decided that in consequence of the

urgent want of train-engines on the line the new engines
shall be at once handed over to Mr. Creuze, and have notes

taken of their performances during the ordinary service.

The whole affair is therefore now out of my hands, and I am

about to employ my time in making drawings of the " Phila
delphia " engine [one of the American engines] for the
Institution of Civil Engineers."

   My new residence proved otherwise convenient.
Bromsgrove was better adapted than Worcester for get

ting made some parts of an apparatus which I had de

206

&t. 20-21]  A NOMADIC PERIOD

named the fact that my father had suggested a mode of

utilizing electro-magnetic action ; and, during the latter
part of 1840 and beginning of 1841, letters contain dis
cussions concerning the details of an engine to be made

in purUsance of it. It was, I believe, the action of a

muscle which suggested to my father the thought of this

engine : the action of a muscle being one in which a large
motion is obtained by the accumulation of many small

motions. Electro-magnets, placed at short distances

from one another, were to be so mounted that when ex

cited they would severally move, each towards its neigh
bour : the result being that a series of them fixed at one

end, would produce a movement at the other end made up

of all these small movements united. It was manifest that

the magnets must be numerous and at short distances;

and the difficulty was to get a sufficient number of them

in a moderate space. I proposed circular disks; each

being made of a form somewhat like that of the bobbins

used in lace machines for containing the threads of cot
ton : the space which in them is occupied by threads of

cotton being, in these disks, occupied by the exciting

wires. Various difficulties were thought of, and various
plans for overcoming them-- plans which, on now con

templating them, it seems to me would have been futile.

  I was so far sanguine, however, that while at Broms-
grove I superintended at leisure the making of a con

siderable number of these disks ; prompted by the
thought that, when the leisure time came, we should be

enabled to make the experiment with less delay.

  I say " when the leisure time came," for there was

approaching the termination of my engagement. The

            207

                      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                   [1840-41

Birmingham and Gloucester Railway had gone ; and now

I, too, had received a notice that after April 25 my

services would no longer be required. Concerning this

notice, a letter home dated 4th February says: --
  " I was really quite pleased when the chief told me that he

was about to send it; so much so, that I could not help
showing it-- rather to his astonishment I fancy."

Clearly, part of the satisfaction thus displayed was due

to my hopes concerning the electro-magnetic engine, for

the next paragraph says: --

" This last fortnight I have been getting together the neces

sary apparatus for the electro-magnetic experiment, and I
                                                   "
expect  to  be  able  to make  it in a  few  days
                                                      ;

an expectation, however, which was not fulfilled. An

other paragraph of this same letter, treating of a totally
different matter, may not unfitly be quoted :--

  " I was much pleased the other day to find how much I had

increased in weight lately--actually gained 15 pounds since

last August: my total weight now being 150 pounds. I feel

pretty well convinced that this is the cause of my having been

so stupid for the last half year."

Leading an outdoor life, free from any considerable

mental strain, and living chiefly at hotels on abundant

and varied fare, probably caused me to reach this weight

-- a weight which I never again reached until quite the

close of life. The change of appearance which accom
panied this increase of weight, was, like the mental

change, not to my advantage; as the remarks of my

friends proved.

   Returning to the matter of my engagement, or rather

disengagement, it should be added that I declined a per

manent post which was offered to me. After giving some

                               208

JEt. 20-21]         A NOMADIC PERIOD

motives (Mr. Creuze, a Cambridge man, who narrowly

missed the Senior- Wranglership) was scalded to death,

a letter of April 1 1 says :--

" It was in consequence of this occurrence that the chief

the day before yesterday offered me a situation in the per

manent Loco, service. I refused                however, without even
                            I
inquiring what  it  was, and  Ihave plenty of reasons for

                                          it,
having done so. Although did not inquire the particulars,

there    is  no doubt as to these. The office would be that of

assistant Loco, engineer in place of Bishopp [also Cam
                                               it,
                                                   a

                                                      a

                                                         I
bridge man], who will now be promoted to Creuze's place.

should, however, consider this, were to take                                                 loss of
                                 I

time, and detrimental to my future progress in that respect.

The chief was rather astonished at my calmly refusing the

offer."

       did not much like the position to be filled; but be
yond this, and beyond the cause already intimated, there
was another cause operating -- cause which, as matter
of policy, ought not to have been influenced by.
I
        I

                                                       a
                                                                                          a

   Some feeling of alienation from Capt. Moorsom hadit
been produced in me by certain recent incidents. My
friend Jackson, who was one of those employed in makI
ing the survey of the Cornish line, had not been, as he

considered, well used; and since he was by nature an
uncomplaining man, concluded that there were good
grounds for the feeling he displayed. The sum available
for making the survey had been small, and those who

took part in were no doubt stinted in the payments
they received. Probably Capt. Moorsom's idea was that,
were the Act obtained, and the line made, those who had
aided would receive compensations by their subsequent
engagements. Beyond the unsatisfactory treatment of

                  W 209

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840-41

my friend, which I somewhat resented, there were, I

thought, some proceedings not altogether equitable in
the getting up of the survey ; and letters show that my
views about them were expressed somewhat openly. But

some facts overlooked ought to have greatly qualified

these views.

   It is a trite observation that, at the time of their occur

rence, one's feelings and acts are often not seen in their
proper proportions; and that it remains for subsequent
years to bring right estimates of them. Whenever, in

later life, I have looked back on those days, it has been

clear that the alienation then displayed, and which after
wards influenced me, was not altogether defensible. Even

supposing that I was entirely right in my judgments on

the transactions referred to, the sentiment caused over

rode too much the other sentiments which should have

been dominant. Remembering the kindness Capt. Moor-
som had shown all through our relations, which was
great considering the absence of any claim on him, such

disapprobation as I felt for what did not seem equitable

but which after all may have been well warranted, should
not have been allowed to outbalance the feeling of grati

tude. In this case, as in other cases, was shown the pre
dominance of that most abstract of the sentiments -- the
sentiment of justice. Its supremacy over the other moral

feelings, is such that when it has been offended there

results almost an obliteration of what good opinion I
otherwise have had reason to form of the offender. This
seems to be one of the results of a mental constitution
which has largely influenced my life and thought, and
shows itself in my writings ; but which, however needful
in one who has to do a certain kind of work, is not the

210

JEt. 2&-21]  A NOMADIC PERIOD

sonal considerations conquer impersonal ones : in me the
contrary happens. And this sway of the impersonal ones

caused, in the present instance, judgments and feelings

which were too unsympathetic. In later years I have

never ceased to regret the error thus committed.

    There remains little more to be said concerning my last

days on the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway. Part

of February was spent at Worcester. A letter of the 24th

says.

   " I have been absent from Bromsgrove ever since Monday

the 14th, helping with the completion of the Cornish Par

liamentary plans. We have been so overworked that I have

had no time to attend to private affairs. We were at work

on Tuesday last from 8 a.m. to 3 a.m. next morning, and
every other day in the week from the same hour to 12 at

night, and even Sunday was not exempt from its portion.

All the rest worked the whole day, but I would not continue
beyond mid-day. I found my eyes beginning to be affected,
and I was determined not to injure them on any account.
However, it is now all over, and I am not much the worse

for it."

   I was led to take this peremptory course by experience

gained when under Mr. Fox on the L. & B. Railway.

Exhausting physical exertion, continued there for several

days, had produced a very marked effect on my eyes.

For the first time in my life they began to ache when

used for some hours in drawing ; and a considerable time

elapsed before they recovered their tone. The warning

had not been thrown away, as is shown by the paragraph

succeeding the one above quoted :

  " If the chief were to make any remark on my absenting
myself on Sunday when others remained, I should tell him

             211

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1840-41

so hardly, and that he had the injury of their constitutions
to answer for."

   That the course taken was not unjustified is shown by
the fact that my friend Jackson suffered severely from

having yielded to the pressure put upon him. A letter

written to me from London six weeks later, and which

begins with the sentence :-- " If ever a man began to feel

ruin it is I," describes how his eyes had failed so com

pletely that not only was work interdicted but he was
forbidden to look at a book; and it was long after the
date of this letter before he recovered : one curative

measure being a tour in Scotland. This fact should be a
warning to those who think they may trespass upon
their powers, and disobey their sensations, with impunity.

   Miscellaneous occupations of various kinds, which it is

needless to specify, occupied March and the greater part
of April ; and then, on the 26th April, having squared all
details and visited Powick to say good-bye to my friends,

I took my departure for Derby ; where, with the aid of
the considerable sum I had laid by, I hoped to carry out

my plans.

212

           PART III.

   X. Return to Derby.
  XI. A Visit and its Consequences.
 XII. Back at Home.
XIII. A Campaign in London.
XIV. At Home Again.


                        CHAPTER X.

                        RETURN TO DERBY.

                    1841 --42. Mt. 21 --2.

  April 26, 1841, served for the journey; so that, next

day being the 27th, my 21st birthday was kept at home.
No recollection of it remains save that, during an even
ing walk in the Arboretum, my old schoolmaster ex

pressed his satisfaction that I had not come back to the

paternal roof injured by dissipation, as many young men
do. Three years and a half had elapsed since my depart
ure; and they had been on the whole satisfactory years,
in so far as personal improvement and professional suc
cess were concerned.

   The mention of improvement recalls the fact that one
motive for not accepting the permanent post on the Bir
mingham and Gloucester Railway offered to me, was the
desire to prepare for the future by a course of mathemat

ical study. A work on the Differential Calculus was

pored over for a short time, but the reading of it soon

ceased. All through life my constitutional idleness has
taken the form of inability to persevere in labour which

has not an object at once large and distinct. To apply

day after day merely with the general idea of acquiring
information, or of increasing ability, was not in me. But

with an important and definite end to achieve, I could

                                                  21S

         AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                [1841-42

portant nor sufficiently definite, and my energies quickly

failed.

   The chief motive for disengaging myself, however,

was that already intimated --the desire to carry out, in a

way already devised, my father's idea of an electro

magnetic engine. This desire was soon traversed in a

totally unforeseen manner. The Philosophical Magazine

was one of the periodicals taken in and circulated by the

Derby Philosophical Society, to which my father be

longed. It was, I believe, in one of the numbers of this,

though I cannot now identify                 it it,  that read an article on
                                                     aI
the question of motors. The result of reading this

article was an immediate abandonment of the scheme.

proved to me that an electro-magnetic engine worked,
It It
as all such engines in those days were supposed neces
                                  a
sarily to be, by galvanic battery, could never competea

in economy with steam-engine: the general argument

being that the process was one of utilizing the force

latent in coal, and that there must be greater waste in

doing this by the agency of smelted metal oxidized in
                                                         a
battery, than by the agency of coal burnt under boiler.
                                                             it
did not occur to me that an electro-magnetic engine,
                                                                I Ia
though much less economical, might have advantages

over the steam-engine for special purposes. Nor did

anybody at that time dream of generating electricity by

the force of falling water. But was quite as well that

gave up the project; for, apart from the reason for do

ing so which prompted me, there would soon have been

disclosed still more cogent reason. The plan devised
         a
                      a
would have encountered insurmountable difficulties.

Thus, within month of my return to Derby, be

came manifest that, in pursuit of Will-o'-the-wisp,
                                                     a

                                        216

^t. 21-2]  RETURN TO DERBY

might probably have been ascents to higher places. It

then appeared that an unqualified blunder had been
committed. But things do all always work out in con

formity with expectations. A false step may eventually

lead to a path more advantageous than the one deserted.

Had there not been this seemingly-foolish act, I should

have passed a humdrum, and not very prosperous, life as
a civil engineer. That which has since been done would

never have been done.

    Not many days after my return home, there was
brought for our inspection a beautiful herbarium, made
by a young medical man in Derby during his student
days. Why so much effect should have been produced is
not obvious ; but my ambition was at once fired to make
a herbarium as good or better. The first step was to
provide a needful appliance. My father had led me, when
a boy, to acquire some manual dexterity, and this was
now utilized. Paying a carpenter for the use of his bench

and tools, I devoted a few days to making a botanical

press -- not indeed the whole of it: four large wood-
screws were ordered from a turner. Of course, as it may
be supposed, this press was unlike anything existing,

but it answered its purpose well.
   Afternoon walks subsequently were made interesting

by the search for specimens; and in the course of some
months there resulted a considerable collection of the
more conspicuous ordinary plants which the fields and

hedgerows round Derby furnished. It still exists, and

shows that the ambition which prompted me was not un
fulfilled.

   The interest thus shown in botany was not, in any
considerable measure, scientific. The instinct of acquis

                                                   217

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1841-42

sition and the desire to produce something worthy of
admiration, united to stimulate me; and the little knowl

edge gained was incidental only. Though I knew by

name the system of Jussieu, the Linnsean system suf
ficed my purpose, and the Natural Orders remained un
known. But such acquaintance with vegetal structures

as was then acquired, was doubtless of use in after years

when biology became a subject of methodical study.

   The reaches of the Derwent above Derby were in
those days rural, and in parts not unpicturesque. The
railway bridge which now spans the river just above the
town, did not exist; and suburban quiet was not broken
by the shrieks of whistles. A pleasure-boat excursion
up to the mills at Darley (not then made inaccessible by
the stretching of an iron bar from bank to bank) was en
joyable.

   On fine mornings during the latter part of May and a

good part of June, any one who, between 7 and 8, was
near this stretch of water, would very likely have heard

some familiar melodies : now one voice only being

audible, and now another voice joining in with a second.
These voices were those of myself and a friend. Find

ing, while at Worcester, that rowing was beneficial, I

had, soon after my return home, hired a boat for a quar
ter of a year, and had invited this friend to join in morn

ing excursions. As before said, there was much singing
in our office at Worcester, mostly of sentimental ballads ;

and of these my memory had accumulated a considerable

stock : an uncultured taste being satisfied with songs

of a kind which in later life I have come to detest. My

friend, some two years my junior, was also passing

218

St. 21-2]  RETURN TO DERBY

manufactured music, as distinguished from the music of
inspiration. Thus led by our likings, we not unfre-
quently made the woods near Darley echo with our
voices: our secular matins being now and then arrested
for the purpose of gathering a plant. There is still, in
the herbarium above named, a specimen of Enchanter's
Nightshade gathered in the grove skirting the river near
Darley.

   My companion, known by sight from early boyhood,

had only now, during the few preceding weeks, become
personally known. His name, Edward Lott, will recur
frequently throughout this autobiography; for the

friendship thus commenced was a lifelong friend
ship. His nature was one which it is difficult to praise
unduly. Not that he was intellectually remarkable in
any way, but that he was morally of the highest type --
absolutely conscientious, and, along with the sentiment

of justice, displaying in large measure all the other al
truistic sentiments. During the many years of our great
intimacy, in the course of which we were frequently

travelling companions, I never saw him out of temper.

His face, which was extremely handsome, indicated his

character. The expression united dignity, mildness, and
serenity. He impressed every one with his innate good
ness. When, nearly 40 years afterwards, he accompan
ied me on a visit to the house of friends in Gloucester

shire, joining an Easter party to all members of which

he was a stranger, an inquiry of the hostess what they
thought of him, brought the reply -- " Oh, we are all in
love with Mr. Lott."

   In 1841, and for many years afterwards, he was an ad
herent of the current creed -- a member of the Estab

           219

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1841-42

arose between us: always amicable differences, how
ever. But during the latter part of his life these disagree
ments on religious questions, as well as on political
questions, died away.

   The contrast is remarkable between the present time,
in which children often see a good deal of the world be

fore they get into their teens, and the time when I was

young, when but few people went far from their native

places. I make this remark a propos of the fact that un
til after I was one-and-twenty I had never seen the sea.

   My father always spent his summer vacation at the

sea-side; not commonly remaining stationary, but ram

bling along the coast day by day and from one place to
another. One of these vacation rambles was due soon

after my return home, and I agreed to join him. The
Isle of Wight was our proposed region. After a day or

two at Southampton, seeing among other places Netley

Abbey, we passed over to Cowes, and in the course of a

week walked thence by way of Ryde, Brading, Sandown,
Ventnor, Blackgang Chine, Brixton, and Freshwater,
round to Yarmouth. It was a delightful time, leaving
vivid recollections. The emotion which the sea pro

duced in me was, I think, a mixture of joy and awe--the

awe resulting from the manifestation of size and power,

and the joy, I suppose, from the sense of freedom given

by limitless expanse. In those days the Isle of Wight
was more rural than now; and, joined with the pleas

urable feelings given by the sea itself, there were those

which the scenery and the shore gave. My father and I

were in sympathy on most matters, and our rambles

along the coast brought us objects of interest almost

220

Mr. 21-2]  RETURN TO DERBY

new plants growing about them, now the physical ef

fects produced by the waves, now the living things on
the beach, vegetal and animal. That there was some
collecting going on is proved by a letter of my father's

written home, which says of me :--" He is about to send

off another packet [of curiosities] to-day." One small
incident was that at Luccombe Chine we passed just as
some boatmen were landing a sun-fish. Knowing Prof.
Owen, my father wrote to him telling of the fact, and
intimating that the creature might perhaps be useful for

dissection.
   From Yarmouth we passed over to Portsmouth,

whence, after a few days, came a migration to Hayling

Island. At the end of a quiet week there we parted--he

to complete his summer tour, and I to return home ; for
the fund I had devoted to the trip was exhausted.

   My mornings during this period were usually devoted

to some kind of work, if an occupation usually of a more
or less speculative kind may be so called. Of work in
the ordinary sense -- activity directly conducive to ad

vancement --there was little or none: probably because
there was no opportunity for it. In July one of the

things which occupied me was an investigation con

cerning the strength of girders. There resulted a paper

on the subject published in The Civil Engineer and Ar

chitect's Journal for September, 1841. The outcome of it
was a very elaborate algebraic formula, which will raise

a smile on the face of any one familiar with the higher
mathematics; for what it achieves in a laborious way is

doubtless achievable by the Infinitesimal Calculus in an

easy way. It is neither worth preserving, scientifically

           221

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1841-42

reader. Should any one exhume it he must be pre
pared for strange blunders. No proof was sent; the
result being that the compositor and reader transformed
the equation in ways peculiar to themselves.

   Attention has recently been drawn to the process of

depositing metal by electrolysis --a process discovered

by Prof. Daniel, which has since undergone such exten

sive developments. The subject interested me and I

commenced experimenting; meeting, if not with much

success, yet with sufficient success to prompt spec

ulations concerning possible uses of the method. It

occurred to me that by covering a surface with
something like an etching ground, then cutting

through this by an etching tool, and then deposit
ing by electrotype a sheet of copper over the whole sur
face, there would be produced a block with lines in re
lief like those of a woodcut; and it seemed that this
way of producing a printing block would be far less

laborious than that which the wood-cutter adopts. I

carried the idea into practice, and though not with sat

isfactory results, yet with results which promised well.

Having done this, I went to consult the list of patents.

But already the plan, too obvious to be overlooked,
had been taken possession of. The list of patents, or else
of caveats, contained a sufficiently clear description of it.

   This disappointment proved to be a disguised good
fortune. The process, presently brought to bear, went
under the name " glyphography " ; and was adopted to

a certain small extent. It had drawbacks, however, and

failed to compete with other methods; until, in a few

years, it was no more heard of.

    Experiments in electrotyping aroused some interest

222

Mr. 21-2]  RETURN TO DERBY

battery and tried to deposit other metals than copper;
not, however, with much success. There came, too, at

tempts to form crystals by electrolysis, accompanied by
wild hopes respecting the pecuniary results to be ob
tained. Joined with these electro-chemical inquiries
there were others exclusively chemical, of which traces
exist among surviving memoranda. Naturally, too, my
speculative tendency came into play, and some papers
preserved concern the interpretations of " quantity " and
" intensity " in electricity.

   But all these experiments and speculations ended in
no practical results. The only benefits were certain

small additions to knowledge, and some little increase
of manipulative skill.

  To the experiments and speculations which occupied

the mornings, and the country walks in search of plants,
which occupied the afternoons, there was now added, in
the latter part of the day, another occupation. In 1841 a
movement was commenced for the diffusion of vocal

music. Wilhelm's system was introduced into England;
and Mr. Hullah, under some official authority, estab

lished a teaching organization in the chief towns.

Though given to the singing of songs, I had no knowl

edge of music from notes. The desirableness of acquir

ing such knowledge was manifest; and the opportunity

was seized.

   The cultivation of part-singing was the chief aim. Be

yond the set lessons there were soon commenced prac

tices at the house of my friend Lott: he and his sister and
I passing at least one evening a week in trying over glees
and madrigals. After the course of instruction was over,

           223

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                   [1841-42

bers, of whom I was one. Not only during this period,

but for years after, part-singing was one of my chief

gratifications.

   How is it that among those who profess a love of

music, this gratification, great at the same time that it
is costless, is so little appreciated? There are few enjoy
ments higher and none so easy to have, where a will to

have it is entertained by the requisite number. Perhaps
one obstacle is that glee-singing does not display the

musical proficiency of young ladies. For this, solo-

singing is required. And since our social arrangements
are, in chief measure, adjusted to the furthering of mar

riages, it results that glee-singing is not patronized by
mammas or their daughters: all professions of love of

music notwithstanding.

Already, before leaving Worcester, there had been es

tablished a correspondence with two of my friends made

there; and this continued. Letters to Jackson, and let

ters from him, concerned chiefly professional questions,

the steps taken in pursuance of our respective careers,

accounts of our common friends or acquaintances,

joined, on his side, with a good deal of quizzing. But

the correspondence with E. A. B  was, in consider

able measure, devoted to political and religious discus

sions. Some passages seem worth quoting as indicat

ing the stage of thought at that time reached. A letter

written by him on Sept. 4, shows that, while at Powick,

I had got beyond the crude belief that a republican form

of government is good irrespective of conditions.  E. A.
B wrote: --

" I am perfectly aware that you hold the opinion that

224

&t. 21-2]     RETURN TO DERBY

no means fitted for another; but you used to dwell upon it

more particularly with regard to religious government, and

there I differ from you entirely."

And then in the same letter there occurs the para

graph :--
   " I do not admire your definition of government at all,

though I cannot at this moment suggest a better. You call it
' a national institution for preventing one man from infring

ing upon the rights of another.' "

Thus it appears that at twenty I entertained, though in

a crude, unqualified form, a belief which much of my

energy in subsequent years was spent in justifying and

elaborating.

Probably there were other passages written at that

time showing the drift of thought. But when, some
thirty odd years afterwards, I asked E. A. B
                                              if he

could let me have my letters to him, he replied that they

had been burnt up at the time of his marriage, when he

destroyed all useless papers.

   The practice of making pencil portraits, commenced
at Powick, was continued after my return home, when
sundry relatives and friends sat to me. One of the first
results was the sketch of my grandmother, given in the
first division-- " Family-Antecedents." There was soon
executed, too, a portrait of Lott, promptly laid hands on
by his sister; and there were others of two of my father's
particular friends.

   In so far as literal representation went, these were not

amiss; but they were all bad considered artistically.
Some men there are who at once perceive those traits
which give the distinctive character to a face or other

object. My father had a considerable amount of the

                  16 225

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1841-42

faculty thus shown ; but I inherited none of it. A toler

ably exact perception, joined with a fair amount of man

ual dexterity, enabled me to render with some truth each

particular line and shade which I saw, but did not enable

me to seize, in the midst of the complex impression, the

proportional importance of its components. It is the

ability to do this which constitutes the power of repre

sentation when it rises to what we call genius.

   With this making of pencil portraits there was pres

ently joined the copying of life-sized heads taken from

the antique, and afterwards the drawing of ideal heads.

Some of these survive. They possess very little merit.
There is in them no vigour of imagination -- no indi

viduality of expression; nothing beyond meaningless

good looks.
   Soon after, if not at the same time, came drawing of

other kinds -- landscape sketches, not from nature but

from fancy, and practices in the drawing of foliage.

These displayed just the same lack of that artistic power

which is born, not made.

   The drawing of heads presently gave rise not only to
these other kinds of drawing, but also to modeling.

The initiation of this I do not remember. Perhaps it was

inspection of some faces which my father had modeled
when a young men -- especially a laughing face. The
history of this was that one of his pupils (Archibald Fox,
a brother of the late Sir Charles Fox) was taking les
sons in modeling, and that the criticisms my father

passed on his work led to a challenge to model some
thing himself. This laughing face was his response, and

a very successful response it must have been. It is re

markable for a first attempt. But, as I have said, my

226

JEt. 21-2)  RETURN TO DERBY

me, and the results of my efforts in modeling had no
merit beyond that of mechanical imitation.

   In the office at Worcester there had been made not
only drawings for engineering works, but also those for
various buildings -- stations, offices, engine-houses, and
so forth. Naturally there occurred occasions for the
discussion of architectural principles; and of course my
views were ordinarily heretical -- expressions of dissent
from that subordination to authority which was usually

displayed and defended.

   During the autumn of 1841 I devoted a little attention

to architecture; reading up the descriptions of the

Greek orders and other styles, and making sketches.
There was commenced, too, a very ambitious design -- a

vast temple of rather complex character and unusual dis
tribution of parts. The chief aim was to produce a
drawing which should be a tour de force in perspective.
Enough of it remains to show the general idea; but, as
usually happened with me when there was no large ul
terior purpose, my resolution flagged, and the project

was not carried far.

   There was also a sequence more relevant to these dis

cussions at Worcester. In December I wrote a letter on

" Architectural Precedent," which was published in The
Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal for January 1842;

and then, in reply to some comments, mainly sympa
thetic but partly adverse, which appeared in the Febru
ary number of that periodical, there appeared in March
a second letter from me. These letters are not worth

preserving.

From the account of my boybood there was omitted

            227

                      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1841-42

and 1830, phrenology had been drawing attention; and
there came over to England, about 1830 or after, Gall's
disciple, Spurzheim, who went about the country dif

fus1ng knowledge of the system. Derby was among the
towns he visited. Being then perhaps 11, or perhaps 12,

I attended his lectures: having, however, to overcome

a considerable repugnance to contemplating the row of

grinning skulls he had in front of him. Of course at that
age faith was stronger than scepticism. Accepting un

critically the statements made, I became a believer, and

for many years remained one.
   Not unnaturally, therefore, it happened that when, at

the close of January, 1842, there came to Derby, to give

lectures and examine heads, a phrenologist at that time

of repute -- Mr. J. Q. Rumball -- I presented myself to

him for characterization. Here are the results; given
not because of their intrinsic value, but because they
furnished a text for the opinions about me expressed by
my two most intimate friends: --

Alimentativeness. . . Moderate.      Identity                Moderate.
                      Do.
Gustativeness                        Weight                  Large.
                      Do.            Colour
Acquisitiveness                                              Do.
                      Do.            Tu"ne
Secretiveness                               (Melody)         Rather full.
                      Do.                   (Harmony)        Moderate.
Destructiveness                                        .. .

Combativeness         Rather full.   Form           ....     Large.
                                     Size                      Do.
Fear                  Moderate.

Firmness              Very large.    Order                   Do.

Amativeness           M'odDeroa.te.  Number                  Rather full.
Philoprogenitiveness
                                     Individuality           Moderate.

Inhabitativeness . . . Large.        Time                    Large.

Adhesiveness          Do.            Locality                Do.

Love of approbation Do.              Imitation               Moderate.

Self-esteem           Very large.    Constructiveness . . . Large.
                                     Concentrativeness. . Do.
Benevolence           Large.
                                                             Rather full.
Marvellousness        Do.            Causality

Hope                  Moderate.      Comparison              Do.
                                     Wit Moderate.
? Retrospect          Do.

Conscientiousness . . Very large.    Eventuality             Large.

Veneration            Large.         Language                Rather full.

                                     228

Mt. 21-2]     RETURN TO DERBY

" Such a head as this ought to be in the Church. The self-

esteem is very large ; it will only produce self-respect, a

fear of degradation, therefore, united as it is here to a very

full moral development, itself is a moral faculty, and

it is almost impossible that you should be other than

a high-principled man. Something obstinate, but even

this will unite itself with the higher powers not the animal

propensities, and I know not that a man's principles can be

too obstinately adhered to. Persevering and prudent, reason

ably prizing money and benevolent withal. It is clear that I

find no fault so far.

  " If the forehead were as quick as it is sound, if the

memory of details were equal to the general memory, there

would be no fault here neither, but individuality is not full

enough ; this is the only fault I see. General talent there

fore rather than particular genius results from such an

organisation. I should not call you ex necessitate either a

poet a painter or a musician, but you may acquire considerable

proficiency in either, especially in music. Verbal memory is

rather good than otherwise, and mathematics will be no diffi

culty, and yet I do not discover any one particular talent.

The temper is somewhat reserved and perseverance the prin

cipal characteristic of the mind.          "J. Q. Rumball.
" Herbert Spencer, Esq., Jan. 29, 1842."

Thinking that it would be interesting to hear what

                    iIt,

                                     it

                                        I
Jackson thought of    sent this characterization to him.

Here his comment: --
I

      is
" must confess [I] thought  an odd one and not alto

gether worthy of Monsieur Rumball. do not think  it
                                                     is

                                                          a

correct one for instance he says that you have taste for
           ;

music drawing &c. &c. equally and that he does not find any

one more prominent than the other, from which he deduces

the opinion that you might be clever in all but not to shine

                      229

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                        [1841-42

merits, as I do, and always shall, consider them of a high

order ; but nevertheless I think that you might study drawing

and painting and sculpturing &c. with the greatest zeal

without attaining to eminence, whilst the study of philosophy,

natural history, chemistry and sciences generally, if pursued

would be easily within your grasp even to the furthest extent.

Pardon me if I even hint that I do not think music an
ingredient of your spirit, if I may so term it. As to your
being brought up for the Church, I don't think you are half
so fit for it as I am ; not on account of qualities or abilities,

as in that respect you far outstrip me, but because you are of

a much more restless mind more likely to be moved by every

new doctrine and apt to be led away by an ingeniously devised

plan, and knowing your views about Church government, I

may certainly add that Mr. Rumball never will see you in a

gown, &c."

Jackson, at my request, forwarded the phrenological

measurements and inferences to E. A. B  , whose re
marks were as follows: --

" To come to another subject which has afforded me

considerable amusement and some satisfaction inasmuch as it

goes a long way to confirm my previous opinion-- I mean

your phrenological development as laid down by Rumball.

Now I will not pretend to say that there is [not] a good deal

of truth in what he has said with regard to your general

character; but I do mean to say that he might have arrived

at the same conclusion without feeling your head at all. For

instance, without any compliments, a person need not look at

you twice to ascertain that you are no fool and this after all

is the upshot of all he says, the only amplification of this

being his opinion that your talent is more general than indi

vidual. Now to ascertain the latter he need only have talked

to you for a quarter of an hour upon any subject [which he

did not] inasmuch as the readiness you show to engage in

230

JEt. 21-2]  RETURN TO DERBY

that you have not devoted your energies to any one or two
subjects, and the deduction is pretty obvious. In the details
of your character he is on the whole very correct, the only
point upon which he is definite in which he is right and in

which there is I should imagine some difficulty in judging, is

in his opinion of your musical talent which he describes as

large and only qualified by the generalness (if one may coin

a word) rather than individuality of your turn of mind.
N. B. Did you whistle ' The Admiral ' while he was organiz

ing? In one instance in which I should think it difficult to
judge he has, as I think you must see yourself, signally

mistaken you. He speaks of your ' veneration and respect for

superiors as large.' That is the last thing I should have
thought of accusing you of, and I believe I understand and can
appreciate your character very well. I think that my defi

nition of your mind as a radical one, is as good a one as can
be given. You are radical all over in anything and every
thing-- in religion, in politics, in engineering, manners, &c,

&c."

   Papers yield evidence that at that time my faith in
phrenology was unshaken. There are memoranda on

the emotions of self-esteem and love of approbation, to
the disadvantage of the last and advantage of the first;

and there are also some characteristic memoranda con
cerning " the evils of great veneration." Curiously illus

trating the speculative tendency, shown in this as in other

directions, there is, among these memoranda, a design

for an ideal head -- I do not mean face only, but contour

of skull.

   April, 1842, brought a temporary return to engineer
ing activities. A tributary of the river Derwent which

runs through Derby, called the Markeaton Brook, was

            231

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1841-42

of rain, and overflowed to the extent of producing in the
main street a flood of some six feet in depth: the level

attained being so unusual that it was marked by an iron

plate let into the wall. It occurred to me to write a re
port on this flood; and to make suggestions for the pre
vention of any like catastrophe hereafter. This report
was presented to the Town Council, and afterwards
printed and distributed by their order.

  But the plan I recommended for preventing in future

any such disastrous overflows, was one implying expen
sive engineering works, and was not adopted.

232

        CHAPTER XI.

        A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

        1842. Mt. 22.

  After the middle of May, my uncle Thomas came to

see us, and it was agreed that I should go back with him
to Hinton. Six years had elapsed since I left it as a

youth of 16, and there was an anticipated pleasure in re

turning to old scenes, and seeing again well-known

faces.

Railway-communication was then but imperfect, and

from Cheltenham to Cirencester we journeyed by coach.

The journey left its mark because, in the course of  iIt,

found that practice in modeling had increased my per

ception of beauty in form. A good-looking girl, who

was one of our fellow-passengers for short interval, had
        I
                              a
remarkably fine eyes; and had much quiet satisfaction

in observing their forms. Beyond the ordinary pleasure

that would have been given by recognition of the eyes

as fine, there was more special pleasure in contem
        a
             a

                                      it
                                              is a

                                        I
plating the elegant curves of the eyelids.          set down

this recollection mainly because      opens the way to

some remarks on aesthetic culture as  part of education.
                                      to be encouraged
The practice of drawing or modeling

not merely with view to the worth of the things pro

duced, for, in the great majority of cases, these will be

        233

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1842

appreciation of both Nature and Art. There results
from it a revelation of natural beauties of form and col
our which to undisciplined perceptions remain invisible;

and there results, also, a greatly exalted enjoyment of
painting and sculpture. The pleasure which truthful
rendering gives is increased by increasing the knowl
edge of the traits to be rendered.

   My first letter home, dated 23rd May, contains a pass
age which is not without significance.

   " My aunt did not know me at all for some moments when

I made my entrance alone, which we had arranged I should
do. No one recognized me, and of course all agree that I
am much altered. I go to Bath this afternoon to surprise my

old friends there."

  A letter of the same date, written by my aunt to

Derby, implies the nature of the change :--

  " I am so delighted to have Herbert with us, who is so
agreeable and amiable a companion that his uncle and I shall
indeed be very sorry to lose him. I think I never witnessed

so great an improvement in any young person."

   A kindred change which had been similarly com

mented upon when I was at Worcester, where my aunt
had seen me in 1839, I ascribe to escape from those re

straints of earlier life which were more at variance with

my nature than with most natures; and it would seem

that this still greater change had been due to continu
ance of the same cause; for between my days at Wor

cester and this visit to Hinton, there had been three

years of independence. Possibly, there was a further
cause-- slowness of development. This had been decid

edly shown physically, in so far as stature and structure

234

Mr. 22]  A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

not, perhaps, in respect of the intellectual faculties but in
respect of the emotional faculties. The higher of these
were longer than usual in gaining their full strength.

   Shortly after my arrival, there came a sequence to the
practice of modeling, recently named. My uncle had

seen the results of my attempts, and it was agreed that

I should model a bust of him. Whether the suggestion

came from him or from me does not appear, but letters

show that some steps had been taken before the begin
ning of June. Progress was not rapid, and it was made

the slower by the inaptitude of my uncle for sitting. He

had but small aesthetic perception, and no dramatic

faculty whatever; the result being that his notions of a

fit pose and fit expression were often such as to give me

some amusement while they put difficulties in my way.

A letter to my mother, of June 29, says :--
  I" am going on very successfully with the bust : much

better in fact than either my father or myself had expected.
[My father had come to Hinton on his way to the sea-side.]

It will probably be as much as a fortnight before it is

finished; and as soon as it is so I shall return home. I have

been working rather too hard to be able to enjoy my visit
much. What with the modeling and writing letters to The

Nonconformist, I have sometimes hardly stirred out for two

or three days together."

   A letter from my aunt, written on the 10th July, after

my return to Derby, quotes laudatory opinions, ex

pressed by friends about the bust --good natured praise,
mostly, I dare say. But, true as the likeness may have

been in the eyes of those who looked only for literal re
production, it was, in common with other products of

         235

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1842

play of artistic faculty. This the reader may perceive
from the photogravure of it given in the preliminary
part. Especially inartistic was the hair. For the repre
sentation of this something more than literal reproduc
tion of lines and surfaces was needed; and in this some

thing more I failed. The details of the hair were both

unnatural and awkward.

   It used, however, to be some consolation to me to ob

serve that the ancient sculptors did not commonly suc

ceed in rendering hair. Of course I do not mean to say

that their representations were awkward; but only that

they failed in naturalness. I shall doubtless produce

in most readers astonishment by this allegation. So pro

found is the general subjection to the established belief
in Greek superiority, that adverse criticism upon any

thing Greek seems something like blasphemy. But I

no more pin my faith on the opinions of a classically-

educated man about things Greek, than I pin my faith

on the opinions of a clergyman about things Hebrew.
In their treatment of hair, the Greeks did not duly re
gard the fact that the substance in which they were
working is so remote in physical characters from the

substance to be represented, that any attempt at literal
imitation must fail; and that the rendering must be by

suggestion rather than by reproduction. In shaping
the marble it was their habit to cut out the interstices

among the locks to depths such as exist among the locks

of actual hair, and to give to the projecting portions in
their representations as much prominence as they had in
fact. But since actual locks consists of hairs between
which light passes to a large extent, and since the solid
substance in which they are reproduced is one through

236

JEt. 22]  A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

locks are literally imitated in their shapes, the lights and
shades in the marble are far more pronounced than they
are in nature. Nor is this all. Hair is generally of a
more or less dark shade, and the difference in depth of
colour between its lighted parts and its shaded parts,
is consequently made far less than that which exists be
tween the two in a substance like marble. Hence a
further cause of error, co-operating with the other.
Necessarily, therefore, to get anything like a true effect,
the elevations and depressions in the marble must be far
less than they are in fact.

   Apparently from recognition of this truth, many
modern sculptors have succeeded in representing hair
much better than the ancient sculptors did.

   In one of the extracts above given, reference is made
to certain letters I was writing to The Nonconformist
newspaper --a newspaper which had recently been estab
lished as an organ of the advanced Dissenters, and
which was edited by Mr. Edward Miall, afterwards for
some years member of Parliament for Rochdale.

   The proximate origin of these letters cannot now be
recalled. Probably conversations with my uncle led to
them. He had much interest in politics, as had all mem

bers of the family: not, however, the interest commonly
shown -- interest in ministries and men, but interest in

principles and measures. The mental attitude of the
Spencers was unlike that now displayed by those who
call themselves Liberals -- an attitude of subordination to
the decisions of Mr. Gladstone -- an attitude of submis
sion to personal rule similar to that shown in France
when, by a plebiscite, the people surrendered their power

          237

       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                         [1842

by all members of our family was quite opposite to

this.

The implied kinship of feeling and thought led to a

general congruity in the political views held, and led,

especially, to a common tendency towards Individual
ism. With the absence of that party " loyalty " which

consists in surrendering private judgment to men who

are in office, or else to men who want to be in office,

there naturally went a tendency to carry individual free

dom as far as possible; and, by implication, to restrict

governmental action. Daily talks with my uncle doubt

less disclosed various agreements arising from this

community of nature; and hence arose the sugges

tion to contribute, to The Nonconformist newspaper, a

series of letters setting forth the opinions I had been

uttering. My uncle knew Mr. Miall, and with the first

letter sent an introduction.

The twelve letters thus commenced and afterwards

serially published, contain some ideas which it may be

interesting to quote, because of their relations to the

system of beliefs elaborated in subsequent years. Be

sides views afterwards set forth in a more formal man

ner, there are indications of drifts of thought which in

course of time became pronounced and definite.  Here

are some sentences from the first letter: --

   " Everything in Nature has its laws. Inorganic matter has
its dynamic properties, its chemical affinities ; organic matter,
more complex, more easily destroyed, has also its governing
principles. As with matter in its integral form, so with
matter in its aggregate ; animate beings have their laws as
well as the materials from which they are derived. Man as
an animate being has functions to perform and has organs
for performing those functions. . . .

                              238

/Et. 22]  A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

   " As with Man physically, so with Man spiritually. Mind
has its laws as well as matter. . . .

   " As with Man individually, so with Man socially. Society
as certainly has its governing principles as Man has. They
may not be so easily traced or so readily defined. Their
action may be more complicated, and it may be more difficult
to obey them; but nevertheless analogy shows us that they
must exist."

Then comes the corollary that those people are absurd
who suppose that " everything will go wrong unless they
are continually interfering . . . they ought to know
that the laws of society are of such a character that
natural evils will rectify themselves " by virtue of a
" self-adjusting principle." There follows the inference
that it is needful only to maintain order -- that the func
tion of government is " simply to defend the natural

rights of Men--to protect person and property --to pre
vent the aggressions of the powerful upon the weak --

in a word, to administer justice."
   The letters which followed were devoted successively

to treating of Commercial Restrictions, A National

Church, The Poor-Laws, War, Government-Coloniza
tion, National Education, and Sanitary Administration:
the purpose of each letter being to show that, while the

various State-activities implied are excluded by the defi
nition of State-duties, there are various reasons for other

wise concluding that they are injurious.
   The position taken up in the letter concerning War is

utterly untenable. I might indeed, had I been then

aware of the facts, have cited in support of my argu
ment the case of the Iroquois League, under the arrange
ments of which wars were not carried on by the

          239

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1842

voluntary followers; or I might have named the early

German tribes as having pursued a kindred system. But

it is clear that these were exceptional systems, not perma

nently practicable. I failed to recognize the truth that,
if the essential function of a government be that of main

taining the conditions under which individuals may carry
on the business of life in security, this function includes,

not protection against internal enemies only, but protec
tion against external enemies. But the youthful enthusi
asm of two-and-twenty naturally carried me too far.

   In addition to the quotations above given as being

significant, let me here add two others which are no less

significant.

   " Every animate creature stands in a specific relation to
the external world in which it lives. From the meanest
zoophyte, up to the most highly organized of the vertebrata,
one and all have certain fixed principles of existence. Each
has its varied bodily wants to be satisfied -- food to be pro
vided for its proper nourishment-- a habitation to be con
structed for shelter from the cold, or for defence against
enemies -- now arrangements to be made for bringing up a
brood of young, nests to be built, little ones to be fed and
fostered --then a store of provisions to be laid in against
winter, and so on, with a variety of other natural desires to
be gratified. For the performance of all these operations,
every creature has its appropriate organs and instincts--
external apparatus and internal faculties; and the health
and happiness of each being are bound up with the perfection
and activity of these powers. They, in their turn, are
dependent upon the position in which the creature is placed.
Surround it with circumstances which preclude the necessity
for any one of its faculties, and that faculty will become
gradually impaired. Nature provides nothing in vain. In

240

^t. 22]  A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

required. Place a tribe of animals in a situation where one
of their attributes is unnecessary -- take away its natural

exercise --diminish its activity, and you will gradually destroy
its power. Successive generations will see the faculty, or

instinct, or whatever it may be, become gradually weaker,
and an ultimate degeneracy of the race will inevitably ensue.

All this is true of Man."

Then in the   next   letter, in reply to  thmee)argthuamt e"ntsoc(wiehtyichis
              think  had urged against
the editor I

a complicated machine," and that it is the business of
government to keep " everything in equilibrium " it was
said: --

If" it should be discovered that the great difficulties

encountered in the management of social concerns, arise from

the disturbance of natural laws, and that governments had

been foolishly endeavouring to maintain, in a condition of

unstable equilibrium, things which, if let alone, would of

themselves assume a condition of stable equilibrium; then

must the objection be to a great extent invalidated."

   In these several extracts are indicated both specific
ideas and modes of thought which foreshadowed those to
come. There is definitely expressed a belief in the
universality of law -- law in the realm of mind as in that
of matter --law throughout the life of society as through
out individual life. So, too, is it with the correlative idea
of universal causation : implied in the extracts given, this

also pervades the entire argument. Quite pronounced is
the assertion that throughout the organic world there
goes on a process of adaptation by which faculties are
fitted for their functions. This process is said to hold of
Man as of other creatures: the inference following the

one quoted being that, according as his social relations

are of one or other kind, Man will gain or lose character

                   17 241

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1842

and intelligence. And then there is the definite statement
that along with this equilibration between the faculties of

individuals and their circumstances, there is a tendency

in society towards equilibrium-- there is self -adjustment,
individual and social. Thus the tendency of thought was

even at that time towards a purely naturalistic interpreta
tion, and there was a recognition of certain factors in the
process of evolution at large.

   We all occasionally moralize on the great effects initi
ated by small causes. Every day in every life there is a
budding out of incidents severally capable of leading to
large results; but the immense majority of them end as
buds. Only now and then does one grow into a branch ;

and very rarely does such a branch outgrow and over

shadow all others.

   The contributing of these letters to The Nonconformist,

exemplifies this truth in a way more than usually striking.

Had it not been for this visit to Hinton --had it not been
for these political conversations with my uncle --possibly
had it not been for his letter of introduction to Mr. Miall,

the first of these letters would not have seen the light,
and the rest of them would never have been written. Had

they never been written, Social Statics, which originated
from them, would not even have been thought of. Had
there been no Social Statics, those lines of inquiry which
led to The Principles of Psychology would have remained
unexplored. And without that study of life in general
initiated by the writing of these works, leading, presently,
to the study of the relations between its phenomena and
those of the inorganic world, there would have been no

System of Synthetic Philosophy.

242

/Et. 22]  A VISIT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

tunate cessation of my engineering life, opened the way
to another kind of life. And now the writing of these
letters on " The Proper Sphere of Government," com
menced at Hinton and finished during the months suc
ceeding my return to Derby, constituted the first step
towards this other kind of life.

          243

CHAPTER XII.

BACK AT HOME.

1842 --43. Mr. 22 --23.

   Beyond completion of this series of short essays, of
which less than half were written at Hinton, there came

before me soon after my return another subject of inter

est. A letter of July II, 1842, to my father, who was still

at the sea-side, closed with the sentence: -- " Lott has just

called to take me to a lecture on Phonography, so that I

have no more time to spare for you."

The attendance on this lecture had sequences imme

diate and remote. During many preceding years my

father had been, at leisure, elaborating a new system of
shorthand. When, as a boy of thirteen, I went to Hinton,
it had reached such a stage that I was--not much to my
satisfaction -- required to take down in
                                          notes of my
                                        I it,

                                                           it
uncle's sermons very brief notes they were, as may be
:

         it,
supposed. During subsequent years successive improve

ments were made in and, by the time was 21, had

assumed its final form-- final, at least, in respect of its

essentials though, prompted by his restless ideality, my
;

                     I
father went on changing its minutiae as long as he lived       :

not always with advantage suspect.

The above named lecture on Phonography impressed

              244

Mt. 22-23]  BACK AT HOME

with my father, I intimated the belief that Pitman's sysit,

tem was better than his. Saying that this belief was ana
erroneous one, he requested me to compare the two inis

detail. I did this ; and the result was a thorough convicit

tion that my father was right, and that his system wasit
not only better than Pitman's, but better than any other
which has been devised -- as perfect, indeed, as is possible.is
                                              a
   In Phonography when used for reporting, as in older
                                                          it :
shorthands, the consonants alone are marked, and
" Legible Shorthand," as my father called his system, has

no great advantage over them in brevity, so long as this
imperfect method of representing words is followed. Its

only superiority in that case is that it keeps the line,

instead of sprawling about the paper in uncontrolled
ways : a fault in Phonography, as in the shorthands which
preceded and fault which stands in the way of its use
for general purposes. Even had no other advantage
than that of regularity and symmetry, the " Legible
Shorthand " would be preferable to all others.

   But its chief superiority that while, like Phonography,
   may be written either with or without the vowels, the
introduction of the vowels adds comparatively little to
the time and effort required in representing word, while
the reading of the word made easy. In Phonography
the vowels, when introduced, are marked by dots and

dashes, added after the consonants have been written, and

there results an illusive simplicity of appearance the illu
sion being due to the fact that the movements of the hand

gone through in making these dots and dashes are not
shown. When they are shown by dotted lines, becomes
clear that the expenditure of time and effort in marking
the vowels, almost doubles the time and effort previously

            245

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY              [1842-43

tween a word written in Phonography to which were

added the dotted lines shewing the unseen motions, and
the same word written in " Legible Shorthand," proved

to me conclusively   that, when the     vowels are used, the
" Legible Shorthand   " has a great     advantage in brevity,

as well as in legibility and elegance.

The study of my father's system, thus commenced, had

results some time afterwards.

  A rationalized system of letters for writing, raised the
thought of a rationalized system of letters for printing --

a system which should preserve consistency in each of the
several groups --mutes, semi-vocals, liquids, nasals, and
Ivowels.
          schemed sets of forms answering to these

groups, and having throughout a certain general kinship,

as well as a closer kinship within each group. The notion
was plausible. It seemed clear that an alphabet so char

acterized would be desirable. But the conception was a

mistaken one. The love of system had over-ridden the

thought of use. It did not occur to me that the hetero

geneous forms of the letters we now have, is conducive to
legibility-- renders identification of them much easier

than it would be were many of the forms related to one

another, as are the small letters b and d, or p and q : the
common expression " mind your p's and q's," evidently

referring to the difficulty which children find in distin

guishing letters that are alike save in the placing of the

loop on opposite sides. In the proposed set of letters

there were, within each group, kinships of this nature;

and there would have been consequent tendencies to con

fusion. I may, indeed, remark, in passing, that because

capital letters have no projections above and below the

                     246

Mi. 22-23]          BACK AT HOME

do low-case or small letters, lines of capital letters are less

easy to read than lines of low-case letters. I was recently

struck with this on comparing the product of a type

writer which rendered its matter in capitals only, with the

products of those which rendered their matter in capitals

and small letters.

Among my papers, associated with those which set

forth this scheme, there are others concerning the struc

ture desirable for a universal language. Probably

thoughts about the one led to thoughts about the other.

A predominant aim was brevity. The language was to

be monosyllabic and, among the memoranda preserved,

there is a calculation showing that there are more than a
hundred thousand good monosyllables ;-- that is
                         a                       in ad

                                            if,
dition to simple consonants and vowels, all the compound

consonants and compound vowels are used. There are

also proposals of methods by which choice of words for
things and acts may be guided -- methods which, while

paying due regard to logical relationships and classifica

tions, would also pay due regard to euphony.
       seems to me quite possible --probable even --that the
It
time will come when all existing languages will be recog
        a
nized as so imperfect, that an artificial language to be

universally used will be agreed upon. Within these few

years we have seen, in the artificial language called
" Volapuk," an attempt to fulfil the requirements better
than any natural language does. But should be ex
                         I
tremely sorry did there become current any artificialI
language which sets out with ideas derived uncritically
from existing languages, and adopts the system of inflecit

tions -- radically bad system. Without intending to
assume that they have much value, think not amiss

                    247

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY     [1842-43

tions --not respecting a universal language so much as

respecting methods to be followed in forming one.
   About this same time also, an allied matter occupied a

little attention. During previous years I had often re

gretted the progress of the decimal system of numeration ;
the universal adoption of which is by many thought so
desirable. That it has sundry conveniences is beyond

question ; but it has also sundry inconveniences, and the

annoyance I felt was due to a consciousness that all the

advantages of the decimal system might be obtained
along with all the advantages of the duodecimal system,

if the basis of our notation were changed -- instead of

having 10 for its basis, had 12 for its basis: two new

digits being introduced to replace 10 and n, and 12 times

12 being the hundred. Most people are so little able to
emancipate themselves from the conceptions which educa
tion has established in them, that they cannot understand
that the use of 10 as basis, due solely to the fact that

we have five fingers on each hand and five toes on each

foot. If mankind had had six instead of five, there never

would have been any difficulty.

   To Appendix E, have added these memoranda, in
which have set down the advantages of 12 over 10 for
purposes of measurement, enumeration, and calculation.
Of course to change the system would be difficult and
would be rendered more difficult still should the use of
the decimal notation for weights, measures, and values

be established.
I
                  Ia

                               it
                                            is

                                                            if,

                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                    it

   In the course of the autumn something beyond schemesI

and speculations began to occupy my time. became an
active politician.

248

JEt. 22-23]  BACK AT HOME

demand for universal suffrage, triennial parliaments,
vote by ballot, payment of members, no property qualifi
cation, and equal electoral districts, embodied in a formal
document, had become the shibboleth of a Radical work
ing-men's party. The Reform Bill had given predominant
power to the £10 householders; and now the class below

insisted that they, too, should share in making the laws.
Their movement, carried on here and there in an intem

perate manner, had led to a few riots, to a threatened vast
demonstration which was stopped, and to some trials and

imprisonments. Mr. Edward Miall, swayed by a pro
nounced sense of justice, sympathized with the men who
put forward these claims ; and his sympathy prompted
him to write a series of articles in The Nonconformist, ad
vocating an extension of the suffrage much like that

which the Chartists wished to obtain, and, I think, advo

cating, with qualifications, some of the associated changes
they urged. These articles were subsequently republished

as a pamphlet, under the title " A Reconciliation of the
Middle and Working Classes "-- a pamphlet which had a

wide circulation, especially throughout the dissenting
world, of which The Nonconformist was the advanced
organ. The result was the commencement of " The Com

plete Suffrage Movement." Mr. Joseph Sturge, the well-
known philanthropic Quaker of Birmingham, who had

been active in the anti-slavery agitation, became a warm
adherent ; and, among other places, visited Derby to give

an address in aid of Mr. Miall's project : breakfasting at
our house on the occasion. Presently a branch was estab

lished at Derby, of which I became honorary secretary ;

and, in The Nonconformist newspaper about that period,
there exist sundry brief reports sent by me of local

doings.

                                                   249

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  I1842-43

   One of these doings produced some sensation in the
town, and drew a certain amount of general attention.

Of the Chartists who had, during the preceding agitation,
got into trouble and been imprisoned, one was Mr. Henry
Vincent -- a man who, like two others among the early

Chartists, Lovett and Collins, was much to be admired.
He was evidently prompted by conscientious feeling to
devote himself to the advancement of popular welfare, in

doing which he displayed great oratorical power. Recog
nizing the sincerity of those who were following the lead
of Mr. Miall, and probably thinking that it would be well
to get rid of the odium which the Chartist demonstra
tions had produced, he joined the Complete Suffrage

Movement, and went to leading towns lecturing in ad
vocacy of it. At the beginning of September, 1842, he
came to Derby. The announcement of his lecture raised
alarm in the minds of the magistrates --predominantly

Conservative ; and the police were ordered to prevent the

delivery of it. At a small gathering forthwith held of
those who had been instrumental in bringing Mr. Vin

cent, it was decided that a protest should be made. I was

appointed to write an address embodying the protest,

which I did in the course of the ensuing night -- sitting

up until some three or four o'clock to do it. Next
morning, after being approved, the address was printed,
circulated, signed by numerous inhabitants, and in
a day or two presented to the magistrates. Some
of the Liberal London papers took the matter up. The
Morning Chronicle and the Sun, both now extinct, repro
duced the address in their issues of September 6th
and 7th respectively and made editorial comments
blaming the magistrates for their uncalled for inter

ference.

                                                   250

Mr. 22-23]  BACK AT HOME

   In the course of the autumn, interest in the Complete
Suffrage Movement so far increased that there was held,
at Birmingham, a meeting of leading men from chief

towns, to consult respecting the policy to be pursued.
Among others present were one or two members of Par

liament, and also Mr. John Bright, at that time not in
Parliament, and known chiefly as a leading member of
the Anti-Corn-Law League. My uncle Thomas, too, took
part in the meeting. The decision arrived at was that
there should be called a joint conference of the Complete
Suffragists and the Chartists, with a view to union and

concerted action : the hope being that the Chartists would
concede some of their minor demands, and so conciliate

their opponents.
   This conference was held on the 27th December and

following days, and I was sent to it as a delegate from

Derby. Deeper knowledge of human nature on the part
of those who summoned the conference, might have
taught them that the Chartists would listen to no com

promise. Fanatics soon acquire passionate attachments

to their shibboleths. After a day's debate it became
manifest that no co-operation was possible. Even the
very name, " the Charter," was insisted upon as one
which must be accepted. A division consequently took

place, and the Complete Suffragists adjourned to another

hall. A proposed Act of Parliament had been drawn up,

embodying the desired constitutional changes. This, it
was hoped, the Chartists would join in discussing clause
by clause, and in the main agree to. On their refusal,
the Complete Suffragists by themselves, in the space of

some two days, went through the Bill; now approving,

now modifying, its various provisions. The occasion was

            251

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1842-43

ing ; and it produced in me a high tide of mental energy.
This is curiously shown by my copy, still preserved, of
the draft Bill distributed among the delegates, on which

I have written my name. The signature has a sweep and
vigour exceeding that of any other signature I ever

made, either before or since.

   One of the incidents connected with this meeting of the

Complete Suffragists at Birmingham, I must name, be

cause of its important sequences. Liverpool had sent as
a delegate, Mr. Lawrence Hey worth, afterwards member
of Parliament for Derby. He and my uncle Thomas had
been friends for several years. Their friendship had

originated in their agreement on teetotalism ; but they

were also in sympathy on leading political questions. My

uncle was delegate from Bath, and by him I was intro

duced to Mr. Lawrence Heyworth. The acquaintance
ship then commenced, lasted until his death about 1870;

and it opened the way to friendships which, after a time,

greatly affected my life.

  I may add, concerning this Birmingham conference and

the Complete Suffrage movement, that nothing definite
eventually resulted. The agitation carried on in further
ance of as well as that carried on for the enactment of

the Charter, gradually died away; leaving only certain
modifications of opinion. Such modifications may per

haps have had something to do with changes since made
in our representative system; for these have, to con

siderable extent, established in law the proposals which

in those days were thought so revolutionary rightly so
thought, indeed for the drift towards Socialism, now

becoming irresistible, has resulted from giving to the
masses not due proportion of power but the supreme

power.

                                                  252
it,
       a

                     ;
                                                                                                      :

                                                                               a

Mr. 22-23]  BACK AT HOME

   The democratic leanings early shown by me, had long

been manifest to the friends with whom I corresponded ;

and now that they had caused me to take so decided a

step as participation in this Birmingham conference, there

came from these friends strong expostulations. Certain

passages in their letters seem worthy of quotation ; both

because of what they say and of what they imply. The
                       , who wrote: --
first is from E. A. B
" You are formed for an active part in everything you un

dertake, and your energetic character would be very likely to

lead you farther, than in sober reason and judgment you

would go. If you have fully and maturely decided, that the

principles you have adopted are right, and are expedient for

the well-being of the country, I should be the last to wish

you to abandon them to interested motives ; but before finally

committing yourself to the current, which may overwhelm

you, I would have you pause. Consider carefully to what all

you design, will tend, consider how in taking up such a cause,

you lose all chance of advancement in the profession forwhich

your talents and education so well fit you ; examine carefully

the principles, objects and interests of the men in whose

company you will certainly sink or swim, and if after having

done so you still remain of the same mind, in God's name go

on, but again, let me request of you to pause, and consider.
You are now but on the threshold ; you have scarcely taken the

first step, in a path, the end of which it passes mortal power

to foresee, but which may (though may God forbid it) event

ually plunge the whole kingdom into anarchy and civil war.

It is surely worth considering well, before finally deciding.
Whatever may be your fate, or whatever may be mine, I shall
always value your friendship very highly, and if at any time I
can be of any service to you, I hope you will not hesitate to
command me, with as much confidence as if I was of your
own opinions. I only hope you may meet many among your
own party who will feel as great an interest in you as I do."

                       253

                        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY            [1842-43

To the equally strong protest contained in a letter from

Jackson, there is appended a protest,               no less strong,
against the change of career to which,
indicated my leanings: --                           it seems, I had

" As for the good you've done, it is very questionable

whether you've not done ill, for your time has been wasted

in strife, your own temper has been ruffled, you've felt and
wished ill towards those in power and you've in your pride

thought that your mind talents and arm might effect a change.
How like man ! Think you that you can sway the destinies

of mankind? Or perhaps you suppose yourself born to be

the instrument in God's hand of working a reformation in this

land and of releasing the afflicted from the bondage under

which they are suffering. Admitted for argument sake, tho'

it is far fetched, but you, my friend, are not following the steps

of a Luther a Calvin a Knox a Wikliff, whose names are

revered to this hour, holy men who taught and thought as the

Holy Spirit directed them -- no if an instrument you should

be, 'tis not for the reformation of spiritual evil 'tis for what

but like Cromwell to gain your own ambitious views under

the mask of doing your country a service. Doing your
                                       "
country  a  service  !  alas !  alas       .  .  .
                                      I
" You ask me to which I give the preference --to your

remaining in the profession you have commenced or becom

ing a literary character. To this I decidedly say to the first,

in it you are most likely to rise to eminence and thro' it gain

a comfortable income, but from the other never. You've

never studied properly, you are no classic no poet. Perhaps

you might say but I can write reviews and political opinions

and by degrees so improve my style, &c., as to be able to

appear fairly before the public. To this I can only repeat

what I have often said --The public is never to be depended

upon. Let one of its favourites once declaim against you
and you're done for. Neither do I believe that you can ever

                                      254

JEt. 22-23]  BACK AT HOME

fortunate circumstances over which you can have no con
trol.

    " Let me therefore implore you once more to set hand to
pencil and start afresh on the old course; apply thro' your
interest to Fox. He is now about to carry out the execution
of the Dean Forest line of railway, and has the whole con

tract under Capt. Moorsom ; offer your services to superin

tend, get Capt. Moorsom to recommend and so by fairly

starting again cut all the political acquaintances you've picked
up who will never do you any good, and your talents and
energy will soon raise you to that pre-eminence to which you

may aspire. -- Did I not feel the same interest in you that I
might have towards a brother, don't think I should take the

trouble to induce you to do this. Therefore at least give me

credit for candour, and reflect before you go on any further."

   The first of these passages in Jackson's letter, illus
trates the truth that those who live in another sphere of

thought and feeling, frequently show themselves in

capable of comprehending the motives of those opposed

to them. Knowing me intimately though he did, my
friend could not conceive any other prompter than ambi

tion for the course I took. Lacking, himself, any such

political sentiments as mine, he could not imagine me to

be moved solely by a desire to help in making what I con
ceived to be an equitable change. I can say with absolute

certainty that the thought of personal advancement of

any kind never entered my head. Respecting the second

passage, I am led to remark on the amusing way in which

people suppose that the writing of good or bad books is

to be determined by the presence or absence of classical

culture. The quality of the ideas expressed is tacitly

ignored --style being everything and matter nothing ! To
which I may add that there is in this passage, as in the

             255

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1842-43

that of private advantage could possibly operate. The
truth is that throughout my life the writing of books
has resulted from the wish to set forth certain ideas, and
that during sixteen years' publication of them they

brought me not profits but losses.

   About my occupations during the early part of 1843,

I remember little or nothing. A letter from my father to

my uncle contains the sentence :-- " Herbert is writing a

tract upon ' Pledging Electors.' I think he will make it

rather effective." Absolute failure of memory is thus

proved; for I should have said that no such thing was
ever written by me. From the context I gather that it

was intended to be one of a series of tracts issued by the

Complete Suffrage Union. I also gather that I was to be

one of a committee for selecting and criticizing tracts.
   Whether anything was done in the way of engineering,

or any other money-making occupation, I do not recol

lect. Probably there were the usual speculating and

experimenting, leading to no practical results.

   The latter parts of my days were, during this period,

as before and after, miscellaneously filled --country walks

in the afternoons, music and sometimes other distractions

in the evenings. About this time, or earlier, there had
been formed a " Literary and Scientific Society "--a
small gathering of some dozen or so, meeting once a

month, reading papers and discussing them. The mem

bers were mostly of no considerable calibre, and the pro
ceedings were commonly rather humdrum. Further, there

existed a Debating Society which I joined, and of course

did not remain silent ; and there was also, in the leading

literary institution of the town, a chess-room, where an

256

JEt. 22-23]           BACK AT HOME

chess at Hinton, and had there become quite a devotee of

the game ; but nothing beyond mediocrity was reached,

either then or afterwards. I once joined with a friend in

playing without the men, and succeeded in doing this

pretty easily. We had, however, the empty board before

us, which greatly aided imagination. Without that aid

we should have found the feat impossible.

And now, towards the end of the Spring of 1843, after
                      apparently futile--certainly futile in
two years of life     on "-- it seemed needful to take some
respect to " getting

decisive step; and, in the hope of finding something to

do, either in engineering or in literature, I resolved on

going to London.

18 257

                    CHAPTER XIII.

                      A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON.

                          1843. Mr. 23.

   My experimental journey to London must have been

at the end of the first week in May, for a letter dated
May 10 gives a settled address. Letters written soon

after imply a resolution, more decided than I supposed

then existed, to adopt a literary career. Some pass
ages written to Edward Lott will best show the position
and the expectations.

   " I am still somewhat in a condition of uncertainty as to
what may be my ultimate fate. I have written two review

articles, one for the Eclectic and the other for Tait [maga
zines both long since deceased]. The one for the Eclectic
would have appeared in the number for the present month,
had it not been that the two previous ones contain papers
on the same subject --" Education." The one for Tait was
[sent] on speculation and still hangs in statu quo."

   Neither the article written by agreement for the
Eclectic, nor the article sent on speculation to Tait, ever

appeared. Possibly the one was--quite rightly, I fancy
-- thought not worthy of publication; and the other ig
nored because it was by an unknown writer. It was not

without merit ; for, ten years after, it was, with improve
ments, published in the Westminster Review, under the
title of " The Philosophy of Style." The letter goes on
to say: --

                                             258

JEt. 23]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

  "If you get hold of the last week's Nonconformist, you will

find a leading article written by me, entitled ' Effervescence --

Rebecca and her Children.' It will amuse you, I fancy, it
being somewhat queer in its ideas. It might be appropriately

classified under the head of ' The Chemistry of Politics.'

   " At present I am engaged in writing an article for The

Phrenological Journal upon the new theory of Benevolence

and Imitation, which we have talked over together. . . .

I hope you are going on agreeably with your singing exer
cises. If I could fly over and join you now and then, it would
be a great gratification to me, for I am at present leading a

rather solitary life, frequently not speaking a score words in

the day for nearly a week together."

   Fresh indications of my hopes and intentions were

given when writing home on July 7. After describing
an evening spent with Mr. Miall, the letter goes on to
say: --

   " He has also laid me under obligation of a more practical

kind, of which I was not aware until I saw him on Wednes

day. He told me that some friends of his at Colchester, who

were about to purchase a local newspaper, had applied to
him to become their head editor ; meaning that he should
supply them with a leading article every week, whilst they
employed some one of less capacity to manage the other busi
ness for them. He refused this, having, he says, quite enough
on his hands at present, and at the same time that he did so,
mentioned me as one whom he could recommend to fill the

place they wished him to occupy."

Other passages tell me of ambitions which I had utterly

forgotten ; one of them sufficiently daring.

  " I feel more and more determined to write a poem in a

few years hence, and am gradually working out the plot in
my mind and putting down memoranda of thought and senti

          259

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843

closed I send you a few lines by way of specimen of a first

attempt. They are supposed to be part of the winding-up of
a meditation upon the state of the world during the Dark
Ages." . . .

  " I have been reading Bentham's works, and mean to attack
his principles shortly, if I can get any review to publish what

will appear to most of them so presumptuous."

   The verse-making disorder, which seems to be es
caped by but few of those who have any intellectual vi
vacity, did not last long. The project named must have

been soon abandoned, and a later one, which I recall,

was not persevered in. This later one was a drama to

be entitled "The Rebel:" the plot of it being not, as

the reader may suppose, one exhibiting successful re

bellion, but one exhibiting the failure and disappoint

ment of a high-minded hero, consequent on the weak
ness and baseness of those with whom he acted. But

nothing was done beyond thinking over the incidents

and characters to be embodied.

  Among old papers there are some verses which, I sup

pose, must have been written about this time. They are

not amiss in so far as form is concerned; but there is in

them nothing beyond play of fancy. They are manu
factured, and not prompted by feeling forcing its way to

poetical utterance. I had sense enough to see that my

faculties are not of the kind needful for producing genu

ine poetry. I have by nature neither the requisite inten

sity of emotion nor the requisite fertility of expres
sion.

   In the above section reference is made to an essay
setting forth " a new view of the functions of Imitation

                                                  260

JEt. 23]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

Phrenological Journal. Of course it was heretical; and,
if for no other reason, was, perhaps for that reason, re

jected.
   There had, however, been established in 1843, a quar

terly periodical called The Zoist, owned and edited by
Dr. Eliotson, a physician of considerable repute in those

days. Perhaps I ought to say-- a physician who had been

of considerable repute in those days; for, having be
come a convert to Mesmerism, and having committed

himself to a belief in sundry of the alleged higher mani
festations of mesmeric influence, he was a good deal dis
credited. Nothing daunted, however, he persisted in

his faith, and established The Zoist mainly, I believe, to

diffuse it. But he did not limit his periodical to pub

lication of mesmeric experiments, and controversies

concerning alleged mesmeric phenomena; possibly be
cause there was not a sufficiency of this kind of matter to
fill all its space. Phreno-mesmerism was at that time
the name of one class of the manifestations ; and, by im
plication, Phrenology was recognized as an associated

topic. Hence, in part, I suppose, the reason why Dr.

Eliotson accepted this essay of mine; which, written in

the summer and autumn of 1843, was published in The

Zoist for January, 1844. I learnt, only several years
later, that the theory I had set forth respecting the na

ture of Benevolence was not new.

  Partially dissentient though I was concerning special
phrenological doctrines, I continued an adherent of the

general doctrine: not having, at that time, entered on
those lines of psychological inquiry which led me eventu
ally to conclude that, though the statements of phre
nologists might contain adumbrations of truths, they did

not express the truths themselves.

                                                   261

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                             [1843

Old letters and documents from time to time surprise

me by showing that certain ideas had arisen at much

earlier dates than I supposed. An example is furnished

by two paragraphs in a letter written to my friend Lott

on 14 October '43, embodying some corollaries from the

hypothesis set forth in the above-named article.

" I am, however, undergoing an entire revolution in my

notions respecting conscientiousness.     Like many of the

chemical bodies that were at one time believed to be simple

elements, it is fated to undergo decomposition. In the first

place, I cannot bring myself to believe that the various

qualities attributed to it can result from one organ. Justice,

love of truth, overseership of the other feelings, and sundry

other qualities that proceed from
                           I              appear to me to be too

                                          it,

                                                    a

                                             I
distinct to be the emanations of one faculty. From what

primitive powers some of them proceed cannot at present

imagine.       have, however, come to conclusion respecting
is
    a

           I
                 I
the sentiment of Justice.   believe that like Benevolence
                                                             is
                                                                        it
compound feeling, and further, that Sympathy one of

its elements.       was first led to this view by the theoretical

considerations which follow almost as matter of course
                                          is
from the doctrine of Sympathy.                aa
" Thus,
          if      be admitted that there               faculty which has

              it

for its function the excitement in one being of the feelings
exhibited by another, and that the faculty acts in connexion

with all the passions of the mind, in such manner as to
                            it
                                          is

                                                          a
produce participation in all the feelings of other beings,       of it
is
would appear abstractly that this power was sufficienta

itself to produce that respect for all the feelings of others
which necessary for social happiness. At any rate must
                                                             it

be admitted that such an arrangement capable of doing this.

Now under this supposition       would be unphilosophical to

conclude that there was another distinct faculty which, like

conscientiousness, had entire reference to other beings.         It

                            262

,Et. 23]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

notions of the Almighty's arrangements. We must therefore

suppose that the sentiment of Justice is a combination of

sympathy with some other faculty. What is that faculty? I

believe it to be a sense of personal rights. That such a power
is capable of producing the required impulse is evident --

justice might even be termed a sympathy in the personal

rights of others, and that it is may almost be proved by an

analysis of your feelings. If you will realize the feelings of

indignation experienced upon reading the tyrannies and op
pressions of man towards man, you will find that the

emotions are strictly analogous to that produced by an

infringement of your own privileges ; and the more powerful

does the feeling become the stronger is the similarity."

   This view was first publicly set forth in Social Statics

(Chap. V) seven years later; and I have till now sup

posed that it was first entertained at the time that chap

ter was written. I had, in the meantime, become ac

quainted with Adam Smith's Theory of Moral Senti
ments, and found that the doctrine of Sympathy had al
ready been set forth by him; but it would seem that hav

ing reached it in the endeavour to explain Benevolence,

I subsequently carried it on to explain Justice. I may

add that this theory did not receive its complete form

until 1891, when, in Part IV of The Principles of Ethics,

Chap. IV, the nature of the alleged sense of personal

rights was indicated.

   An illustration of the general truth that we can al
ways find reasons for doing that which we want to do,
was furnished by me at this time. One of my first let
ters written home, expresses a resolution to republish,
in pamphlet form, the series of letters to The Noncon
formist on " The Proper Sphere of Government," and

          263

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843

tensible reasons for taking this step were, of course,
that it would be for the public advantage that they should
be made permanently accessible, and that the republica
tion would probably pay its expenses. But the effec
tive prompter doubtless was my desire for their survival
-- my reluctance to see these first products of my pen
remain buried in the columns of a newspaper.

   In their collected form they were issued towards the

end of August, and the results well illustrated the ab

surd estimates made by the sanguine and inexperienced.
That a pamphlet by an unknown writer, on a compara
tively abstract subject, would make any difference in the
course of men's thought, was a belief showing how large
is the space which may be covered by a small object held

close to the eye, and how great may be the consequent
illusions. Utter ignorance of the book-trade, too, was

shown in the idea that the sale of such a pamphlet would
return the cost. This end is but rarely achieved even
when the author is well-known and the topic popular:
one reason being that, with a small publication, the cost

of advertising bears to the total expenditure so much

larger a ratio than with a publication of any size; and
the other being that publishers will not take any
trouble about pamphlets, which, as they say, are not

worth " handling "-- the trouble of selling is the same

as for a larger book and the profit next to nothing. I

experienced the effects of these causes. Perhaps a hun

dred copies were sold and less than a tenth of the cost
repaid. The printer's bill was £10, 2s. 6d. and the pub
lisher's payment to me on the first year's sales was four

teen shillings and three pence!

  Of course I distributed copies to friends and to men

264

JEr. 23]       A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

from these last were carefully preserved; for, in an au

thor's early days, expressions of opinion are valued. One
copy went to Mr. Carlyle, which, strange as it seems to
me, he acknowledged. Here is his note. The date

shows that the copy must have been sent many months

after publication; probably because I had been reading
one of his books -- Sartor Resartus, I believe.

" Dear Sir-- I have  received             " Chelsea, 20 May, 1844.
                                       your pamphlet, and hope to

examine it with profit at my earliest leisure. There is some

thing good and salutary in all utterances of men which recog

nize, in any way, the eternal nature of Right and Wrong.

Would there were thousands and millions of such men in this
world ; each struggling towards ' government ' of his own

little  world  in that spirit  !
               " With many
                               thanks  and good wishes,
                                          " Yours very truly,

                                                     " T. Carlyle."

  I quote the letter because, profoundly averse as I am
from Carlyle's leading ideas, and strongly as I have ex

pressed myself in reprobation of his despotic temper

and resulting love of despotic rule, and in reprobation

of his contemptuous utterances about various men, it is

but fair to express my appreciation of the sympathetic

feeling occasionally manifested by him. I appreciate the

more the manifestation of it through encouraging words

to unknown writers, because, in these later years of my

life, I have abundant experience of the trouble entailed
by presentation copies. A book I usually acknowledge

by a lithographed circular with some lines on the fly

leaf; and anything smaller than a book commonly gets

no acknowledgment at all. Certainly, it but rarely hap

                               265

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                   [1843

that which I received from Carlyle. What a strange

mixture he was of harshness and sympathy!

My sojourn in London led to a renewal of intimacy

with my two friends. With E. A. B  , who was at

that time stationed at Woolwich, I spent an evening;

and not long after attended the celebration of his 21st

birthday at his father's residence in London: being

chosen, as his chief friend, to propose his health. Of
Jackson I saw a good deal. He had resumed his occu
pation of architect and surveyor; not, however, with

much success. One result was that, having both of us

a good deal of leisure, we took from time to time country
walks -- chiefly in the Northern environs of London.

   An incident in the course of one of these walks is asso

ciated with a physiological fact which I have not seen

named, and which has some significance. Not long be

fore, I had, either by accident or in pursuance of a specu

lation, been led to try the experiment of making a

number of deep inspirations in rapid succession: inflat

ing the lungs to their fullest extent, expelling the air,

and instantly again inflating them. The result was to

send the blood tingling to the finger ends; or, at least,

I presume that the sensation of tingling was due to the

action on the blood-vessels. I cannot remember whether

any exhilaration was caused, or whether I simply enter

tained the belief that some increase of energy would be

a consequence. But in the course of one of these walks

I induced Jackson to try the experiment, and he imme

diately announced that a headache, under which he had

been labouring, had ceased -- an anaemic headache prob

ably. The effects of artificially-exalted respiration must

266

S.T. 2.;]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

where met with any account of them or interpretation of

them. I assumed at that time that the effect is chemi

cal, but afterwards inclined to the belief that it is me

chanical. It should be added that, though there may

come beneficial results, I know, to my cost, that detri

mental results also may be produced.

   Others of the expeditions we made together were to

picture-galleries. Jackson was an amateur artist of con
siderable skill, and I, at that time as always, was inter

ested in pictures to the extent of going to all the annual
exhibitions. In those days the Gallery of British Artists
in Suffolk Street was usually worth a visit; and since

1843 there has remained with me the impression of a

picture, contained in its exhibition of that year, by J. B.
Pyne -- a picture of the Menai Straits on a glowing sum
mer's day. It was a grand one in respect of composi
tion; and I never remember to have seen sunshine and

heat so vividly rendered. Pyne received nothing like
the recognition which he ought to have had. No art-
critic of authority, or rather no art-critic who had made

people believe him an authority, had declared in his
favour. And the public having no one to form an opin

ion for them, had no opinion.

   Not long since, when conversing with a Royal Acade

mician and a professed art-critic, I happened to name
Pyne as an unappreciated man. " A kind of imitator of

Turner, was he not?" said the Academician. "Better
than Turner," I replied, to the astonishment of both.

And thereupon arose a discussion in which my dissent

from the unqualified praises commonly given to Turner

was distinctly expressed. Not, indeed, that I denied his

merits. These are doubtless great. Among his pic

           267

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                  [1843

indeed, as " Childe Harold's Pilgrimage " and " Ulysses

deriding Polyphemus," are poems; and there is poetical
feeling pervading his works at large. Then, too, there
is his variety -- his Shakespearian variety one might call
it-- in which he immensely exceeds the mass of artists;

most of whom continually repeat themselves in concep

tions and in effects. But it is quite possible to admit his

superiority while recognizing serious drawbacks.

   One of these is the not rendering truly the broad

general contrast between earth and sky. In saying this

I have in mind sundry of his larger works, his multitu

dinous sketches, and the landscapes which fill his Liber

Studiorum and Harbours of England, &c. In numbers of
these the average tone of the air-region is as deep as the

average tone of the solid ground-region beneath it. This
is a fundamental error. With some exceptions the most

important difference in every out-of-door scene, is that

between the relative darkness of the lower part of the

visible area and the relative lightness of the upper part.

The objects filling the lower part yield no light to the

eye save what they reflect from the upper part; and the

source of light must necessarily be brighter than that

which it lights. Save in cases where heavy clouds,

coming up from the horizon, have overspread that part
of the sky towards which the spectator looks, while the
sky behind him is still light -- cases in which the surface

in front receives more light from behind him than does
the cloud overhanging it-- the largest effect in a land

scape is this greater darkness of the earth than of the

sky; and, if this largest effect is not represented, there

results an untruth which nothing can hide.
   Beyond this serious error, too often made by Turner

268

/ET. 23]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

frequently in his works a serious error of composition --
an error in what we distinguish as Art. Many of his
pictures are too full of details -- of multitudinous objects
too uniformly distributed. The essence of Art is con

trast. Art, no matter of what kind, demands a proper
adjustment of contrasts -- broad contrasts, minor con
trasts, small contrasts; and, in the plastic Arts, contrast

of form, contrasts of light and shade, contrasts of col

our. A further kind of contrast is required --that be
tween uniformity and variety --between simplicity and

complexity-- between the relatively uninteresting and
the relatively interesting. Be it in architecture, sculp
ture, or painting, artistic effect can be obtained only by

the association of parts which attract the eye in but small
measure, with parts which greatly attract the eye; and

one of the elements of attraction is the amount of detail.

If detail is evenly scattered over the whole of the visual
area, contrast is in so far destroyed. Only by concen

trating the detail can it be produced. There must be

much plainness to render decoration really decorative.
This implies that in paintings there should be large
areas which, if not without details, are occupied by de
tails of a kind so inconspicuous that they draw little
attention. One of the few artists whose pictures fully
conform to this requirement, is Mr. Orchardson. Turner

often ignored it. He had a restless desire to fill all parts
of his canvas with minor effects ; and he multiplied them
to the extent of conflicting with the major effect, and
preventing the observer from grasping the picture as a

whole.

  ISo that, admiring Turner as I do, yet contend that

he frequently missed a great truth in Nature and too

          269

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843

But Turner has had the good fortune -- if it be a good for
tune-- to obtain the applause of one whose word has
come to be law with the public on Art-matters; and,
among those few who have any opinions of their own,
scarcely any dare to express their dissent. Turner him

self, however, saw how undue was the valuation of his
work; and, towards the close of his life, ridiculed the

public, saying laughingly -- " They buy my freaks! "
   The world is always wrong in its estimate of conspicu

ous men. They are always either greatly over-estimated
or greatly under-estimated. When, after opinion has
gone to the one extreme, there comes a reaction, it goes
for a time to the other extreme; and then again the
reaction is carried too far. Oscillations so caused con
tinue through the ages, until, by the time opinion has
settled into the rational mean, the man has dropped into
oblivion. These variations -- these exaggerations and de
preciations of merit, are inevitable. There is as certainly
a fashion in Art-judgment as there is a fashion in
women's dresses; and, in the one case as in the other,

the movement is now to excess in one way and now to

excess in the opposite way --a result which must al
ways follow so long as individuals dare not speak and

act independently, but severally say and do that which
they find the mass of people around say and do. This
conduct leads to rushes, first this way then that way,
in thought and action, according as one or other belief
concerning the prevailing preferences becomes domi

nant. Rhythm is universal.

  And here I may observe that recognition of rhythm in

opinion about Art-matters, as about other matters, af
fords a means of correcting our judgments; since we

270

/Et. 23]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

swinging, and may judge approximately to what extent it
has swung beyond the position of equilibrium.

   Having failed during nearly three months, to obtain

any literary engagement, and having received nothing

for such products of my pen as found their way into

print, I was of course led to keep my eyes open in search

of an engineering engagement, and some time in July

found one.

   Competition designs for some graving-docks at

Southampton, had been publicly asked for by the West
India Mail Steam- Packet Company; and, among others
who responded to the invitation, was Mr. W. B. Pritch-

ard. I undertook to aid him in making the drawings;

or, rather, made the drawings under his superintend

ence. Between one or two months were, I think, thus

occupied. Nothing came of the matter, however. Other

designs were, I suppose, chosen. Thus any hope which
I perhaps entertained of a permanent engagement came

to an end. Later in the autumn there was, indeed, a

second piece of work which I undertook for him -- a de
sign for a pier, I think it was. But from this there came

no more result than from the other.

   Competition designs are in all cases not hopeful

things ; since they are usually numerous, and since those

who have to pass judgments upon them are often not

among the most competent. In this case, however, I

suspect that the faults were in the designs themselves;

for Mr. W. B. Pritchard was not a man of much natural
capacity, nor was he adequately prepared. How he came

into the position which he seemed to occupy, I never

could understand. He was not only deficient in the spe

          271

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843

general culture. I suppose he furnished an illustration of

the success which may be achieved by audacity in push

ing. He had in a high degree that trait which I had in

a small degree, or rather, not at all.
   My relations with him did not entirely cease with the

completion of these designs. I subsequently undertook

to revise the MS. of a work on Bar-Harbours which he
had written -- an MS. which required a good deal of edit

ing before it was sent to press.

   There remains to be named only one other incident
connected with this sojourn in London -- an incident,

like others which I have named, implying more attention

to public affairs than to private affairs.
   Some two or three years had now elapsed since The

Nonconformist had commenced urging the dissolution of

the connexion between the Church and State : the motto

of the paper being a sentence from Burke, I believe --

" The Dissidence of Dissent, and the Protestantism of

the Protestant religion." A considerable effect had been

produced; for the writings of Mr. Miall had a logical

coherence and persuasiveness not usually found in those

of newspaper-editors. In the minds of a small section,

opinion had so far ripened that the time for action was
supposed to have come; and a few of the more ardent

resolved to form a society having in view the objects

which The Nonconformist advocated. I was among these

few. Some private meetings were held; and it was de

cided to found a " Metropolitan Anti-State-Church As

sociation." Secretaries were appointed, one of whom

was Charles Miall, brother of Edward Miall. An ad
dress had to be written, and I was chosen to write it.

272

JEt. 23]  A CAMPAIGN IN LONDON

                    a

                                it,
haps, justifies the description given of in one of the
dissenting papers of the time, as fiery little document,
or something to that effect.

   This Metropolitan Anti-State-Church Association
was presently merged in the Anti-State-Church Associ
ation at large; which eventually, to avoid that appear
ance of antagonism which the prefix " Anti " gave, re
named itself " The Society for the Liberation of Religion
from State Patronage and Control." Thus the writing
of this address was the first overt step towards that agi
tation for disconnecting Church and State which has

since been carried on.

The summer months had long since passed away and

autumn had ended. November had come, and nothing

had been achieved.

Had there been in me any of that same capacity for

pushing in which, as just remarked,  am deficient,
       it

                     I

                                              a

                                 Ia

                                                It

                              aI
                                                              I
something might have been done. seems strange that,

with such engineering connexions as had been made,

and with introductions of the kind which sundry articles

in The Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal furnished,

should not have succeeded in finding post of some

kind. Evidently took nothing like adequately deci
sive steps, but was very much in the mood of Mr. Micaw-
ber -- waiting for something to turn up and waiting in

vain.

And now, after half year had passed in this futile

way, became clear that longer sojourn in London

was out of the question, and raised the siege.

          19 273

               CHAPTER XIV.

               AT HOME AGAIN.

               1843--44. Mr. 23--24.

A small incident, which left so faint a mark in mem

ory that it would have disappeared wholly from the

record had it not been for a reminder found among my

papers, occurred shortly after my retreat from London.

  During the autumn I had witnessed the birth of a new

weekly paper, issued from the same printing establish

ment as The Nonconformist; at which, also, my pamphlet

had been produced. It was entitled The Philanthropist,

and was projected by a sanguine young fellow named

Ritchie. My recollection is limited to its title; unless

I add a surviving impression that its contents and its

editing gave but small promise of success -- a small

promise which was very soon followed by its cessation.

While I know of no effects otherwise caused by
a                                                            am
                                                        a

                                                     a iIt,
reminded, by the document above referred to, of its

effect on me.

For this wild project of Mr. Ritchie suggested proj

ect which was still wilder. Soon after my return home

there arose in me the thought of weekly paper to be

called The Philosopher. Evidently the wish was father

to the thought; for the thought could scarcely have

arisen out of any rationally-framed estimate of success.

Neither sufficient public, nor fit contributors, nor ade

quate money, were likely to be forthcoming. There are,

indeed, among the memoranda, the names of some who

               274

/Er. 23-24]               AT HOME AGAIN

were to be asked to write. But they could not have been

set down otherwise than as a play of fancy. The fact of

chief interest, however, is that there exists among these

papers, a design for a heading to the projected journal.

Such small amount of skill as I possessed in making or
namental letters, &c, I exercised. Evidently the whole
thing must have been a day-dream --an imagination of
something which I should have liked to do.

   But the incident has a certain significance --it indi

cated the leanings. It foreshadowed the doings of sub
sequent years in a curious way--a way which seems the

more curious when there is added the fact, now clearly

recalled on thinking over the circumstances, that I had
reserved for my own writing a series of " Essays on
             "
Principles       :  not,  however,  physical  principles,  such as

those which at a future time were to be set forth, but

politico-ethical principles.

   Something speculative, but not so absurdly impracti
cable, at the same time or soon after occupied my atten

tion -- something of which I was not the originator, but

proposed only to be the aider and abettor.
   There was in my father's nature the peculiarity that,

whereas he could be, and usually was, energetic about

small things, he was never energetic about large ones.

He appeared to be paralyzed by the contemplation of
any step which involved serious issues. It may be that

this trait did not originally exist, but was due to the ner
vous collapse he suffered soon after he was thirty; but

more probably it was due to the activity of his con
structive imagination, which led him to represent so
vividly the many good and evil consequences, that he be

                              275

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843-44

hand, this peculiarity had already been shown by letting
year after year pass without doing anything towards
publication of it ; and it was clear that nothing would be
done, unless it was done for him. Hence it happened
that, some time at the end of 1843, or beginning of 1844,

I wrote a systematic account of it. The manuscript,
ready for publication, I put into my father's hands; and

I went so far as to attempt, by the electrotyping process,

to produce some of the illustrations which otherwise

would have required woodcuts. Among various odds
and ends there still exists a fragment of one of the plates.

   But there the matter stood. Though from time to
time, during the remainder of my father's life, plans for
publication were entertained, nothing was ever done by

him.*

   Of my readings during this period I have but slender

recollections. The Athenteum and The Mechanic's Mag
azine, circulated among the members of the Methodist
Library Committee (of which my father, oddly enough,
still retained his membership) came round regularly;

and there also came round the more important periodi

cals taken in by the Derby Philosophical Society -- The
Lancet, two medical quarterlies, The Philosophical Maga

   * For many years after his death, pre-occupation with my own work,
continually demanding more of me than my disturbed health would bear,
prevented me from carrying out the intention of seeing the work through
the press myself: the difficulty of getting the illustrations properly exe
cuted, being a chief deterrent. During a subsequent period, entire in
capacity for attending to business of any kind, caused further postpone
ment ; and when, after partial recovery, the intention was revived, I
could not find the manuscript. Quite recently the discovery of this has

been followed by the resolution to delay no longer ; and I have now

(June, 1892), made arrangements with a wood-engraver to execute the
illustrations.

                                                  276

Mr. 23-24]  AT HOME AGAIN

cine, The Cyclopcedia of Anatomy and Physiology (issued
in parts), with, perhaps, some others. And beyond these

there were the occasional books purchased by the So
ciety: some of them popular, as travels, and others not

of so readable a kind.

   One of these last I remember making acquaintance

with at the Society's Library -- a large quiet room in St.
Helen's Street, to which I occasionally resorted in the
afternoon. This book was Mill's System of Logic, just
purchased and not yet sent round to members. I re

member reading his criticism on the syllogism and
agreeing with it: perhaps all the more readily because
it expressed dissent from an orthodox doctrine.

    Another book should be named as having been read

about this time --Carlyle's Sartor Resartus. It had been

lent to me by Lott, who had become an admirer. The
book made an impression, though it did not exercise
any appreciable influence. The freshness of its presen
tations of things, and its wonderful vigour of style, at

tracted me. But I am not aware that any change in my

views of life resulted. There are some who date back

revolutions in their states of mind to the reading of Car
lyle's works in those days; but they must have been

much more readily impressible than I was-- more recep

tive. Anything like passive receptivity is foreign to my

nature; and there results an unusually small tendency

to be affected by others' thoughts. It seems as though

the fabric of my conclusions had in all cases to be de

veloped from within--refused to be built, and insisted

upon growing. Material which could be taken in and
organized, or re-organized, so as to form part of a co

herent structure in course of elaboration, there was al

            277

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843-44

of alien kinds, or unorganizable kinds, were, if not re

jected, yet accepted with indifference and soon dropped

away. This is in a considerable measure the nature

of all who think for themselves; but this nature has

ever been in me unusually pronounced.

  There is proof that about this time, too, I made ac

quaintance with some essays of Emerson, which had

recently been republished in England with an introduc
tion by Carlyle. The proof is a passage in a letter writ
ten to Lott in 1844.

   " I have read Emerson and have passed it on according to
command. Here and there I met with passages that I was

much pleased with, but as a whole it is rather too mystical to
please me. As Carlyle says his ideas are ' struggling towards

an embodiment.' Certainly they have as yet only here and
there attained it; his essays give rather the shadows of his

thoughts than the thoughts themselves. But I greatly admire
the spirit of the man though I cannot agree with many of his

most prominent ideas. The doctrine indicated in various
parts of the book that we attain truth by admitting into our
minds the gleams of the ' universal soul ' is somewhat anal

ogous to the view (erroneously as I think) entertained by

the Quakers respecting the promptings of the spirit ; which
promptings of the spirit are nothing more than the actings
of their excited moral sentiments."

    Subsequent reading of other collections of his lectures

and addresses, less mystical in their characters, raised

my estimate of Emerson. Out of the mass of his sayings,

incoherent or but slightly coherent, as he himself re

marked, there occasionally came one which impressed me

and remained. That I enjoyed his essays is proved to

me by the remembrance that some six months after

wards I read one of them aloud to a friend -- a remem

278

Mt. 23-24]  AT HOME AGAIN

comparison my friend made. He said that the feeling
produced in him was like that produced by distant

thunder.

   What it was which about this time turned my atten

tion to the construction of watches, there is nothing to

indicate. In the absence of memoranda, I should have

referred this, among my many excursive occupations, to

an earlier date; but one of the sketches, made on the

back of a notice of a meeting appointed for November,
1843, prevents me. This sketch shows that a re-arrange
ment of the works with a view to greater flatness was one
of the intentions; but most of the sketches referred to

new forms of detached escapements. I name this be

cause there resulted two working models of such new
forms, constructed on a large scale-- perhaps about six
inches in diameter. One of them proved to have no su

periority: indeed I believe it was a bad one. The other,

however, worked with great regularity; having an ad
vantage in the mode of giving the impulse. It lay about
the house for years, and was at length broken to pieces.

   Some still-extant drawings remind me that not long

afterwards there was a scheme for an improved form of
printing press, or what seemed an improved form. But,

unless it was in simplicity, I do not see what advantage

the proposed arrangement had over the then-existing
arrangements. From this scheme, however, which did

not occupy much attention, there presently arose one

which occupied a good deal of attention. Thoughts about

the making of printing presses led the way to thoughts
about the making of type.

   To make type by compression, instead of by casting,

            279

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                          [1843-44

still in its general arrangements, which was to do the

work rapidly and automatically; and it is clear from the

documents still existing that I was sanguine in my an
ticipations: a fact which goes without saying -- what in

ventor is not sanguine? Elaboration of plans went even

to the extent of detailed costs and arrangements of an

establishment for carrying on the manufacture. These

estimates had been rendered necessary in the course of

negotiations into which I was led. Sundry efforts to
carry the scheme into execution were made. A letter to

my father from Mr. Kershaw, a wealthy friend of his at

Manchester, shows that an inquiry had been raised on

my behalf concerning a possible capitalist. From Mr.

Joseph Sturge, too, I find a note of April, 1844, showing
that I had intimated to him that I was in search of either

a type-founder who would adopt my plan, or some enter

prising man who would advance sufficient money to give

it a trial. One negotiation there was which went some

what further; for it seems that I had resolved not to let

the matter drop without using all available means. A
"Iletter to my aunt of 15 April says: --
                                          begin to see

that under the present state of things there is no getting

on without a little pushing, and however disagreeable

such policy may be to my own feelings (and it is exceed

ingly so) I expect I must make up my mind to adopt
it." In pursuance of this resolution I wrote to Mr. Law

rence Heyworth of Liverpool (to whom, as already nar

rated, I had been introduced by my uncle at Birming

ham), inquiring whether he knew anyone who would be
able and willing to join in the projected enterprise. Mr.

Heyworth responded in a manner which raised my

hopes; and sundry letters passed between us. It ap

280

/Et. 23-24]  AT HOME AGAIN

in the belief that not impossibly the business might be
of a kind suitable for one of his sons, at that time grow
ing into manhood. But, after sundry inquiries on his

part and calculations on mine, he came to the conclusion

that the undertaking was not likely to prove extensive

enough. Such, at least, was the ostensible reason given ;

though possibly -- probably even --scepticism about suc

cess may have been a more influential motive.

   There was nothing more to be done. If no help was
forthcoming from some one to whom I was known, there

was no likelihood of help from elsewhere; and so the

matter dropped.

Along with speculations taking the direction of me

chanical improvements, there went speculations having

no relation to material results. At most times there was

being pursued some line of thought having scientific or

philosophical bearings; and the early part of 1844 was
not unlike other times in this respect.

   Not long before, a French chemist (Dumas, I believe)

had drawn attention to the relation which exists between

plant-life and animal-life: the one being carried on by

decomposition of carbonic acid and water, assimilation of

the carbon and hydrogen, and liberation of the oxygen;

while the other is carried on mainly by oxidation of the

carbon and hydrogen, and generation of carbonic acid

and water. A corollary from this view, which had not

been named, occurred to me; and, in The Philosophical

Magazine for February, 1844,  I pointed it out in an essay
entitled " Remarks upon the
                              Theory of Reciprocal De

pendence in the Animal and Vegetable Creations, as re

gards its bearing on Paleontology." Briefly stated, the

             281

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                [1843-44

isting in various parts of the world in the shape of coal-

formations, having been produced by the abstraction,

during past periods of the Earth's history, of carbon

from the atmosphere, imply that in earlier times the pro

portion of carbonic acid in the atmosphere was greater

than it is now. This article is reproduced in Appen

dix F.

Later in the Spring, or rather in the Summer, a sub

ject quite remote in nature again afforded a field for

speculation -- Phrenology; in which my interest still

continued, and in respect of parts of which I again enun

ciated heterodox views. The first of my heterodoxies
was set forth in a brief article " On the Situation of the

Organ of Amativeness," published in No. 6 of The Zoist,

for July 1844. The argument contained in it was that a

similar external appearance would be produced
               it                                                                               in
                                                                              if,
stead of amativeness being located in the cerebellum, as

Gall alleged,  were located on the under-side of the

cerebrum, overlying the cerebellum. A good deal more

space was occupied in setting forth my second hetero

doxy, in an article entitled " A Theory concerning the

Organ of Wonder," which, written in June or July, was
published in No. of The Zoist, for October, 1844. Evi
a
                      a

                                 7
                                  a

                                      it

                                                                 a
                                                                                             a

                                                        I
dently the hypothesis which the article set forth, was

prompted by dissatisfaction with the vagueness of the
accepted belief concerning the function of the organ --
" function of confused, indefinite character," as called

it. Wonder could not, seemed to me, be primitive

faculty; but rather trait resulting from some large en

dowment of faculty which had distinct relation to life.
The conclusion reached was that the organ " has for its

ultimate function the revival of all intellectual impres

               282

JEt. 23-24]  AT HOME AGAIN

name Revivisence being suggested as " the most descrip

tive name," though an awkward one.

   Strangely enough, this essay, long ago buried and
forgotten, was recently exhumed. To my great surprise,
in the Journal of the Anthropological Institute for June,

1890, vol. xx (1891), p. 231, I met with the report of a

paper read by Mr. Bernard Hollander of Vienna, in

which he contended that this phrenological hypothesis
of mine was verified by the experiments of Ferrier.

Whether he was right in his contention I am not pre

pared to say; but he quoted from Prof. Ferrier the curi

ously congruous statement respecting excitements of
the part, that " the movements indicated are essential to

the revivification of ideas."

   And now, at the beginning of August, there came a

letter which initiated, first a brief change in the course

of my life, and then a much longer change. The active

part which I had taken locally in the Complete Suffrage

Movement, before and after the Conference already de
scribed, had led to correspondence with Mr. Joseph
Sturge, president of the Complete Suffrage Union; and

this correspondence now had an unexpected sequence.

An organ for the movement was thought needful; and it

was also thought needful that there should be a local

newspaper of more radical character than the news

papers which existed in Birmingham. The desire, or

perhaps it should be called the resolution, to found such

a paper, I first learned on August 6 from Mr. James Wil

son, secretary of the Complete Suffrage Union. Here

is the essential part of his letter: --
   " A few staunch friends of the cause are decidedly anxious

             283

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1843-44

to give it a fair trial. They have put the matter into my

hands and devolve on me the responsibility of the editorship.
I can only undertake to do this at hours apart from the

general business of the secretaryship of the C.S.U., and must
therefore depend much on the efficiency of an assistant. Mr.

Sturge and I had some conversation on this latter point, and
having suggested you I thought well of the suggestion. The
paper will be got up in a most respectable style, and from seven

years' practical acquaintance with the details of editing and

sub-editing, I shall hope to put the thing into such shape at

once as would make afterwork comparatively easy. For the

first six months it will be a paper of trial. If it succeed it
will afford to pay itself thereafter. I mention this merely to

show that the assistant-editorship would not afford that

amount of remuneration which we could wish to offer to you."

In a letter of three days later came the passage :--
   " With regard to your prospective position on the paper I

have simply to say that as I have no one to control me nor
dictate how or what I shall write it shall be my earnest desire

not to cramp your energies by any stipulations as to subjects.
. . . My time will be chiefly devoted to the secretaryship
which will not be at all identified with editing of the Pilot."

   In so far as these statements concerned the nature of

the post to be filled, they appeared quite satisfactory.

The only unsatisfactory thing was the absence of any
specified remuneration. As was pointed out in a letter

from my uncle Thomas, written in the course of the next
month, it was unwise " to enter upon a matter first and

make terms afterwards." But I suppose my eagerness

to be doing something prevented me from raising a dif

ficulty of any kind.

  Thus, wisely or unwisely, I closed with the proposal

made to me, and migrated to Birmingham before the end

of August.

                                             284

             PART IV.

   XV. A Brief Sub-Editorship.
  XVI. A Parliamentary Survey.
 XVII. An Interval in Town.
XVIII. Another Parliamentary Survey.
  XIX. Inventions.
XIXa. Suspense.


                        CHAPTER XV.

                    A BRIEF SUB-EDITORSHIP.

                         1844. Mr. 24.

   The editor of the projected newspaper, Mr. James

Wilson, had suggested that I should, for a time at any

rate, reside with him; but, as his domestic arrangements
were temporarily dislocated by the absence of his wife in
Scotland, it was arranged that the early part of my so
journ in Birmingham should take the form of a visit to
Mr. Joseph Sturge. There resulted a number of pleas
ant days passed in his house at Edgbaston.

  I retain a clear recollection of his remarkable face,

uniting, in an unusual way, great kindness with great
firmness : beneath an overhanging brow, eyes expressive
of much sympathy, and then a very massive chin. The
determination implied by the massive chin took the

form of unyielding pursuit of his benevolent aims. Al
ready I had received a favourable impression of him,

and closer knowledge made it more favourable still, as
witness the following passage in a letter to my friend

Lott:--
   " You would be delighted with Mr. Sturge did you know

as much of him as I now do. He is one of the most lovable
kind of men in his social and domestic character that I have

yet come in contact with ; perfectly open, simple and ami
able, he is as genuine a Christian, in the practical sense of
the term, as could well be imagined."

                                                   287

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1844

  I am glad that the occasion occurs for thus describing

him, since his name is scarcely known to the present gen
eration. Had he " chastised " wild tribes who did not
quietly yield to our intruding explorers, or had he picked
a quarrel with some native king, broken up his govern
ment, and presently appropriated his territory, or had he
bombarded the fortifications of a people who would not
submissively accept our administration of their affairs,
he might have been rewarded by a grateful nation, and
his memory cherished. But he did none of those things.
He only devoted persistent energies to the abolition of
slavery, and then laboured to mitigate the sufferings of

kidnapped negroes --did nothing more than spend time,

money, and life, in promoting human welfare at home

and abroad.

   Connected with my residence in the house of Mr.
Wilson, which shortly followed, there is but one inci

dent worth recalling.

  Up to this time I had never paid any attention to

mental philosophy, save under the form of phrenology;

respecting some doctrines of which my criticisms, as we

have seen, imply a leaning towards subjective analysis.

But the science of mind had no temptation for me, other

wise than as affording these occasions for independent

judgment: there had never been any deliberate study of

it. All through my life Locke's Essay had been before
me on my father's shelves, but I had never taken it down;
or, at any rate, I have no recollection of having ever
read a page of it. My glance over a small part of Mill's

Logic, named in a preceding chapter, had, indeed,

shown that there was a latent interest in psychological

288

Mt. 24]        A BRIEF SUB-EDITORSHIP

come of it. Now, however, I was led to consider one of

the cardinal problems which the theory of human intelli

gence presents.

   For I found in Mr. Wilson's house (rather oddly, as it

seemed, for there was not a soupcon of philosophy in

him) a copy of a translation of Kant's Critique of Pure

Reason, at that time, I believe, recently published. This
I commenced reading, but did not go far. The doctrine

that Time and Space are " nothing but " subjective
forms, -- pertain exclusively to consciousness and have

nothing beyond consciousness answering to them, -- I re

jected at once and absolutely; and, having done so, went

no further. Being then, as always, an impatient reader,

even of things which in large measure interest me and

meet with a general acceptance, it has always been out

of the question for me to go on reading a book the fun

damental principles of which I entirely dissent from.

Tacitly giving an author credit for consistency, I, with

out thinking much about the matter, take it for granted
that if the fundamental principles are wrong the rest

cannot be right; and thereupon cease reading --being, I

suspect, rather glad of an excuse for doing so.

  Though I was not clearly conscious of them, there

must have been two motives prompting this summary
dismissal. There was, in the first place, the utter in
credibility of the proposition itself; and then, in the
second place, there was the want of confidence in the

reasonings of any one who could accept a proposition

so incredibile. If a writer could, at the very first step in

his argument, flatly contradict an immediate intuition of

a simple and direct kind, which survives every effort to

suppress  it,  there seemed no reason why, at any and

every subsequent stage of his argument, he might not

          20 289

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1844

similarly affirm to be true a proposition exactly opposite
to that which the intellect recognizes as true. Every co
herent body of conclusions is a fabric of separate intui
tions, into which, by analysis, it is decomposable; and,
if one of the primary intuitions is of no authority, then no
one of the secondary intuitions is of any authority: the

entire intellectual structure is rotten.

   I must have dimly felt then what I afterwards clearly

saw, and have set forth in The Principles of Psychology,
§§ 388 -- 391 -- the fact that belief in the unqualified su
premacy of reason is the superstition of philosophers.
Without showing any warrant, or making any attempt

to show a warrant (there being in fact no warrant to be
shown), they assume that in each step throughout an

argument, the dependence of conclusion upon premises,
which in the last resort is an intuition, has a validity
greater than that of any other kind of intuition: the
truth being, contrariwise, that it has a smaller validity.

A simple intuition, such as that by which we apprehend

Space as external, has a clearness and strength tran
scending the clearness and strength of any intuition by

which we see, internally, that, given certain data, a cer
tain inference follows; and still more has it a clearness

and strength immensely transcending that of a series of

such internal intuitions, constituting an argument. All
that it is competent for reason to do, as a critic of ex

ternal perception, is to re-interpret its dicta in such way

as to make them consistent -- not, for instance, to deny

the apparent motion of the Sun through the heavens from
East to West, but to show that this apparent motion
may equally be produced by the motion of the Earth
round its axis from West to East; and that this inter

290

/Er. 24]          A BRIEF SUB-EDITORSHIP

other perceptions, which the original interpretation is

not.

  But I am digressing too much. It remains only to
say that whenever, in later years, I have taken up Kant's
Critique of Pure Reason, I have similarly stopped short

after rejecting its primary proposition.

   But what about The Pilot? Well, there is not much
to be said. After various mischances -- breaking down
of the printing machine and so forth -- the paper was

launched on the 28th September, and thereafter went on

for a time with regularity.
   Beyond discharging my functions as sub-editor, I did

my share in the writing of leading articles. Among those

which came from my pen, I find mentioned in letters,
or otherwise identified, the following: --" Railway Ad
ministration " ;  "A Political                "      " Magisterial
                                Paradox           ;
Delinquencies "; "A Political Parable and its Moral";
" Honesty is the                "      " The
                  Best  Policy      ;         Impolicy  of Dis
honesty"; and " The Great Social Law."

In these articles I observe only one thing worthy to
be named -- the growth of a certain belief, already

vaguely indicated two years before in the letters on The

Proper Sphere of Government, and now more clearly ex
pressed. In the article entitled " Honesty is the Best

Policy," contending that this truth holds more certainly

of a society than of an individual, since in a society evil
reactions cannot be escaped, it is said: -- " The life and

health of a society are the life and health of one crea

ture. The same vitality exists throughout the whole

mass. One part cannot suffer without the rest being

ultimately injured."

But now, after about a month, the sub-editing and the

                        291

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1844

writing of leaders, were alike suddenly cut short in a
quite unexpected way.*

   * With the history of this brief engagement, may here be joined men

tion of an instructive incident, which occurred nearly half a century later.
   Mr. Wilson, a native of Aberdeen, who in after years became the

Rev. Dr. Wilson, continued, after he came to reside in London, to send
occasional contributions to The A berdeen Free Press, with which he had,

I believe, been connected in his early days. One of these contributions,

called forth by the death of Mr. John Bright, gave some small personal
reminiscences of him, dating back to the days of the Anti-Corn Law
League, which were also the days when The Pilot was established.
Though it had little relevance to his subject Dr. Wilson brought in my

name. One of his statements concerning me was that I had written in
The Pilot a series of articles on "Sociology." On reading this state

ment, which, along with others from The Aberdeen Free Press, was re

produced in The Pall Mall Gazette of April 2, 1889, I received a serious

shock; for, trivial in itself, it had for me a grave implication.
   Ever since the publication of Social Statics, the disciples of M. Comte

Ihave assumed and alleged my indebtedness to him ; though have more

than once said that when that work was written he was to me but a
name. Now this statement of Dr. Wilson, evidently volunteered with

Iout bias, seemed to furnish conclusive proof that was acquainted with

the writings of M. Comte in 1844; since the word "Sociology" had
been first used by him in his " Positive Philosophy," and was not at

that time current in England. I knew Dr. Wilson's assertion, honestly
made though it doubtless was, to be absolutely untrue -- that I had used

no such word. But how to prove this -- how to rebut evidence which

appeared so strong ? Though with little hope, I forthwith instituted in

quiries in Birmingham : thinking that there, if anywhere, a file of The
Pilot might be preserved. But none was to be heard of. Then arose

the thought of the files of newspapers in the British Museum. But I

was assured that no chance existed of finding there the successive num

bers of a short-lived provincial journal dating back 45 years. Fortu

nately I ignored this opinion, and discovered that the Museum did con

tain a file of the paper: my anxiety being thus at once removed.

   Singling out the leading English Comtist, Mr. Frederic Harrison, I

wrote to him requesting that he would find some fit man, unknown to

me, who, under his instruction and without knowledge of the purpose

for which the inquiry was made, or of the person on whose behalf it
was made, should go to the Museum, and copy out the titles of all the

292

JE.T. 24]  A BRIEF SUB-EDITORSHIP

he did. The list was written out ; Mr. Harrison read it through ; and
                                                                  was correct -- that there
he then    wrote to me   t"esStoifcyiionlgogytha"t   my memory
was no     such word as                             to be found  in them. These facts I

published in a letter to The Pall Mall Gazette of April 12, 1889.

Had not this slender thread of evidence been preserved unbroken, my

word would thereafter have been held valueless.

                         293

                       CHAPTER XVI.

                 A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY.

                           1844. jEt. 24.

  For what reason, and in what way, my engagement on

The Pilot was so unexpectedly broken -- temporarily as
intended but permanently as it proved -- will best be
shown by a letter written to my father on the 30th of
Oc"toPbreorb,ab1l8y44y.ou will wonder at receiving a letter from me

dated Dudley, and will doubtless be still more surprised to

Ihear that have returned for a few weeks to my old pro

fession.

   " You must know that, something like a fortnight ago, Mr.
Hughes (whom you probably remember as my old superior
on the B. and G. Railway), called on me at The Pilot office,
and told me that he had heard from Edmund Sturge that I
was in Birmingham, and that he had called to know whether

I could come and assist him in making a survey of a branch

from the B. and G. Railway to pass through Droitwich, Kid
derminster, Stourbridge, Dudley, and terminating at Wol

verhampton. After thanking him for the offer I told him
that I was then engaged with Mr. Wilson, and that, even did
I think it desirable, I could not honourably leave him without
due notice ; and, as he wanted me immediately, I was com
pelled to decline the offer. This I did the more readily as

the engagement was only a temporary one, consequent upon
the making of the parliamentary survey, which has to be con
cluded by the end of November.

  " With this interview the matter, as I supposed, terminated.

                                             294

JEr. 24]  A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

However, on Saturday last Wilson told me that the Sturges
had been talking with him about the matter, and that, in

consequence of the scarcity of engineers during the present
railway mania, Mr. Hughes was very anxious to have me,
and had commissioned Edmund Sturge to endeavour to make

some arrangement. The matter ended in Wilson's agreeing
to liberate me for a month on condition that Joseph Sturge
liberated him from his duties as secretary to the C.S.U. This
he had no difficulty in doing, as there is nothing stirring in
that matter just now, and Wilson will be able for a short

time, with the assistance of a reporter he is about to employ,

to go on without me.

  " And so here I am booked for a month's hard work in
surveying and levelling. I am to be paid at the usual rate

for such work, namely a guinea a day and my expenses

paid, so that I shall be able to get a little stock in hand by
the undertaking. I daresay a month's out of door work will
do me no harm, either, on the score of health. Not that I

was wanting for have been very well ever since left

home."
          it,                         I
                                              I
Little need to be said concerning the work had to doI

                              a
                                   a
in making, first the trial section, and then the permanent
section, between Stourbridge and Wolverhampton-- work

which occupied me during good part of November.  I

may remark only that the country traversed was one of

the worst imaginable -- jumble of coal-pits, iron works,

cinder-heaps, tramways, canals, lanes, streets, ground

which had subsided and houses which were cracked in

consequence of the abstraction of coal from beneath and
                                      ;

that the levels had to be taken in the midst of wind and

rain and more or less smoke.

Nor need  I  dwell on the week or ten days ending

             295

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1844

pany with Mr. Hughes and other members of the late
B. and G. staff -- Loch, Harrison, Bishopp -- I helped to
carry on the process of preparing the plans, to be de
posited at the end of the month. In this case, as in all

such cases, there came towards the close a good deal of
unceasing work : the day being eked out by many hours
of the night. For it is with the getting up of plans for
Parliament, as it is with the starting on a journey--how

ever much time is taken in preparation, there is always

hurry-scurry at the last.

   After the end of November my letters for a consider
able interval are dated 12, Waterloo Street, Birmingham.
Further routine work had to be done, in the preparation
of parish-plans, &c. ; and the getting of this work done
Mr. Hughes let to me.

   How my engagement with The Pilot, which was to be

only suspended for a month or so, finally lapsed, I cannot

remember. Possibly a representation was made to the

Sturges, interested alike in the railway and in the journal,
that my engineering services could not be dispensed with ;

and possibly there existed an unexpressed feeling which

led them the more readily to yield to the alleged need.
During my visit to Joseph Sturge, he received a consider
able shock on discovering how profoundly at variance
were our views about religion. Some question of his

brought out a confession of my rationalism; and I sus

pect that on this disclosure he repented that he had been
instrumental in bringing me to Birmingham. The rea
son, however, was not one which could be assigned for
cancelling the engagement, and nothing was done:
friendly feeling being very well maintained notwithstand

296

JEt. 24]  A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

thought so shocking. But now that there occurred a
demand for my aid in another direction, probably he and

his brothers, with whom he co-operated, rather rejoiced

that my journalistic functions might conveniently end.

Though there was entire sympathy on their part with all

that I had written in The Pilot, yet the consciousness of

disagreement on so all-important a matter must have
been a cause for dissatisfaction.

   And so I quietly reverted for a time to my previous
profession. Through December, January, February, and
March (if sundry short breaks are omitted) my life alter

nated between lodgings in Edgbaston and the office in
Waterloo Street ; where, presently, my duties became
little more than nominal.

   Mr. Lawrence Heyworth has been mentioned as one
with whom acquaintance was made at the Birmingham

conference, and with whom I had, a year or more after,

some correspondence respecting the carrying out of an

invention. During December, 1844, there arose an in

definite suggestion that I should visit him; and at the

end of the year this suggestion became a definite one:
the result being that the first few days of 1845 were spent
at his house, Yew Tree, near Liverpool. When writing

to my father subsequently I said--
   " Mr. Heyworth and I had a great deal of conversation,

and on the whole agreed remarkably well in our sentiments.
He is a particularly liberal-minded and thinking man, and,
though nominally a Churchman, is practically no more one
than I am myself."

A letter to Lott dated 1 February, after giving an allied
characterization of Mr. Heyworth, proceeds to give two

characterizations which are of much more importance.

                                             297

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY       I1844

   " I was, however, most highly pleased with his daughter
and her husband -- Mr. and Mrs. Potter. They have been

lately married, and appear to me the most admirable pair I
Ihave ever seen.
                  don't know whether you ever heard me

mention Miss Heyworth as being somewhat of a notability.

I have, however, been for some time past curious to see her,

partly in consequence of the very high terms in which my

uncle Thomas has always spoken of her, and partly because

I have once or twice seen her name mentioned in the papers

as one who was very zealous in the anti-corn-law agitation ;

engaging herself in distributing tracts and conversing with

persons on the subject.

   " It would never be inferred from her manner and general

appearance that she possessed so independent a character.

She is perfectly feminine and has an unusually graceful and
refined manner. To a phrenologist, however, the singularity

of the character is very obvious. [Here follow a profile
outline of her head and a set of inferences.]

   " Mr. Potter, however, commanded my highest admiration.

He is I think the most lovable being I have yet seen. He is

evidently genuine. His amiability is not that of manner but
that of reality. He has a noble head -- a democratic one of

course [his earlier life and his later life might be cited as
opposing evidences on this point] --but one so beautifully

balanced in other respects that one can quite delight in con

templating it. The perfect agreement between his head and

face is remarkable: the features are Grecian and their expres

sion is exactly what a phrenologist would anticipate.

  " He is I believe very poetical --admires Shelley enthusi

astically and conceives him by far the finest poet of his era,

in which I quite coincide with him. In fact we sympathized

in our sentiments on all subjects on which we conversed,

and although I might feel somewhat flattered by this, I must
say that I felt so strongly the beauty of his disposition as
contrasted with my own, that I felt more dissatisfied with
myself than I have done for a long time past."

                  298

JEt. 24]     A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

   For the reproduction of these passages there is a very
sufficient reason. The friendship thus initiated lasted
until the deaths of both. It influenced to a considerable
extent the current of my life ; and, through their children
and grandchildren, influences it still.

Both on my own behalf and on behalf of my friend, I

ought perhaps to say that the great admiration of

Shelley above indicated did not continue. He, in after

years, lost it almost entirely ; and in me it diminished

considerably. Why this was I do not feel certain.
   Here I may fitly seize the occasion for saying some

thing about my tastes in poetry. A good deal of the feel

ing which, in a letter to my friend Lott concerning
" Prometheus Unbound," prompted the sentence -- " It

is the only poem over which I have ever become enthu

siastic," was, I believe, due to the fact that it satisfied

one of my organic needs --variety. I say organic, be
cause I perceive that it runs throughout my constitu

tion, beginning with likings for food. Monotony of diet

is not simply repugnant; it very soon produces indi

gestion. And an analogous trait seems to pervade my

nervous system to its highest ramifications. Both the

structure as a whole and all parts of soon reach their
                                              a
limits of normal activity, beyond which further activity
                                                 a it,
alike disagreeable and injurious.
is                                                      I
        a                                                            II

                          is
                                     is
Whether the fact rightly to be explained thus or not,

the fact itself unquestionable. Even in my boyhood

had dislike to ballads with recurring burdens; and as

grew older this dislike grew into disgust which rose

almost to exasperation. There was kind of vicarious

shame at this inane repetition of an idea.    recognize,

indeed, few cases in which repetition, when emphasizing
          a

                                         299

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

a continuously-increasing feeling, is appropriate and
very effective ; as, for instance, in Tennyson's " CEnone "

-- " O Mother Ida, hear me ere I die." But usually the

repetitions which characterize popular poetry are mean
ingless, and imply a childish poverty of thought.

   Originating, as it seems, in a kindred way, has ever
continued an indifference to epic poetry --a want of
liking, due in part to the unchanging form of the vehicle
and in part to the inadequately varied character of the
matter: narratives, incidents, adventures -- often of sub
stantially similar kinds. My feeling was well shown

when, some twenty years ago, I took up a translation of

the Iliad for the purpose of studying the superstitions of
the early Greeks, and, after reading some six books, felt

what a task it would be to go on --felt that I would rather

give a large sum than read to the end. Passing over its
tedious enumerations of details of dresses and arms, of
chariots and horses, of blows given and received, filling

page after page--saying nothing of the boyish practice of

repeating descriptive names, such as well-greaved Greeks,
long-haired Achaeans, horse-breaking Trojans, and so
forth (epithets which when not relevant to the issue are

injurious) ; passing over, too, the many absurdities, such
as giving the genealogy of a horse while in the midst of
a battle; and not objecting that the subject-matter appeals
continually to brutal passions and the instincts of the

savage ; it suffices to say that to me the ceaseless repeti
tion of battles and speeches is intolerable. Even did the
ideas presented raise pleasurable feelings, a lack of suffi

ciently broad contrasts in matter and manner would repel

me. The like holds with other epic poems -- holds, too,

when the themes are such as appeal to my sympathies.

300

JEr. 24]        A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

change in the mode of presentation and change in the
quality of the substance, which is too continuously rich:

a fabric full of beauties but without beauty in outline --a

gorgeous dress ill made up.

   Another requirement :--All poetry which I care to read
must have intensity. As I have elsewhere said -- " While

the matter embodied is idealized emotion, the vehicle is
                                      "
the idealized   language  of emotion      ;  and, thus  regarding

emotion as the essence of poetry, it has always seemed to

me that an indispensable trait in fine poetry is strong

emotion. If the emotion is not of a pronounced kind, the

proper vehicle for it is prose ; and the rhythmical form

becomes proper only as the emotion rises. It is doubtless
for this reason that I am in but small measure attracted
to Wordsworth. Admitting, though I do, that through

out his works there are sprinkled many poems of great

beauty, my feeling is that most of his writing is not wine

but beer.

  In pursuance of the conception just indicated, I have

occasionally argued that the highest type of poetry must

be one in which the form continually varies with the

matter ; rising and falling in its poetical traits according

as the wave of emotion grows stronger or becomes weaker
-- now descending to a prose which has only a suspicion

of rhythm in and characterized by words and figures
of but moderate strength, and now, through various
                it,

                                I
                                                  I

                                                                                      is
grades, rising to the lyrical form, with its definite meas

ures and vivid metaphors. Attempts have think been

made to produce works having his heterogeneity of form,

but with no great success: transcendent genius                                            re

quired for it.

About others' requirements cannot of course speak;

                          301

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1844

Even the true poets are far too productive. If they would

write only one-fourth of the amount, the world would
be a gainer. As for the versifiers and the minor poets,

they do little more than help to drown good literature in
a flood of bad. There is something utterly wearisome in

this continual working-up afresh the old materials into
slightly different forms --talking continually of skies and
stars, of seas and streams, of trees and flowers, sunset
and sunrise, the blowing of breezes and the singing of

birds, &c.--now describing these familiar things them

selves, and now using them in metaphors that are worn
threadbare. The poetry commonly produced does not
bubble up as a spring but is simply pumped up; and
pumped-up poetry is not worth reading.

   No one should write verse if he can help it. Let him
suppress it if possible; but if it bursts forth in spite of

him it may be of value.

   As a helper in completing the plans of the proposed
line, there was mentioned above Mr. W. F. Loch : one of
those referred to but not named at the beginning of

Chapter VII. Another of the old B. and G. staff, Mr. G.

D. Bishopp, had married Loch's sister; and Loch was

residing with them at Edgbaston. Some additional years
of experience of life had sobered him a good deal ; and

one result was that there presently grew up a friendship
between us which has lasted from that time to this. After
the end of November he had nothing to do; and, when
the work which December brought had been completed,
nothing remained for me either beyond a formal attend

ance. I was retained rather with a view to contingencies

than from any immediate need.
   Hence it happened that during the early months of

                                                  302

/Et. 24]  A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

1845, we saw a good deal of one another. Having taken

to geology, he had gained some acquaintance with the

formations round Birmingham ; and the common interest

thus established between us, led to geological excursions

here and there. One was to the Clent Hills --I think that
was the name--where an extrusion of trap had taken
place in remote times. A curious structure called " The

Wren's Nest," near Dudley, was the goal of another

expedition. And then, besides long walks such as these

implied, there were more numerous and shorter walks

about the environs of Birmingham. Discussions were
not infrequent concomitants --political and religious dis

cussions more especially. At that time Loch retained the

beliefs given him by his education, and we were in con

stant opposition -- he, orthodox and a Tory, I heterodox
and a Radical--I, shocked at his harsh way of talking

about the people, he shocked at my heretical ideas. Our

debates had, like most debates, but small results: those

on religion, especially, being futile from lack of a com
Formon standing-ground.
                         his faith he assigned the
usual reasons--cited history and the Christian evidences.

I, ignoring these, referred continually to the necessities

of things, the order of nature, the uniformity of causation,

as the grounds for disbelief. And so our fight was carried

on in two different elements ; neither hitting the other to
any purpose. In course of time, however, my friend was

forced to abandon his beliefs ; not by any such reasonings

as I used, but by an invasion carried into what he thought
his strongholds. A letter of mine to Lott, written some

years after, giving an account of the matter, is worth

quoting :--
  " I do not remember whether I have told you that the

          3°3

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                               [1844

constant subject of debate between Loch and myself, and that
we made but little progress towards an agreement in conse

quence of his not putting much faith in the abstract argu
ments of the origin of will, of belief, and of motive, and the

inferences to be thence drawn, which to me were so conclu

sive of the question; and of my not attaching much weight

to arguments derived from historical evidence. Last spring

he (Loch) had been reading Paley's Evidences and told me
that he thought it almost unanswerable, but that he would

be very glad to read any analogous work on the opposite

side of the question. I recommended Strauss's Life of Jesus.

He has been three months in reading it--has examined every

reference, every quotation, and every argument, with the

greatest care, and now confesses that it has thoroughly

convinced him. It has, as he expresses                   taken him com
                                      a
                                                    it,
pletely in the flank, by following much more fundamental
line of argument than that taken by Paley. Paley's object was

to prove the authenticity of the gospels by historical evidence.

Strauss, on the other hand, assumes their authenticity, and

then proceeds, by comparison and examination of their
      is
internal evidences, to prove that thereaais              no reliance to

be placed on the correctness of their narratives; and Loch

says that what the Westminster Review says of the

work      perfectly true --namely that after reading     it,all

[that] had before looked so clear, simple, and straight             :
forward, becomes misty chaos of contradiction and uncer

tainty."

Returning to the discussions we carried on during these

excursions round Birmingham, may add that sometimes
                                      I

the moral implications of the question were entered upon

he contending, as commonly done, that in the absence
          I,

                   is
of revelation there would be no knowledge of right and

wrong; and contrariwise, contending that right and

wrong are determined by the nature of things, and may

                                 304

JBr. 24]  A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

when I, on one occasion, said that the moral Euclid

remained to be written.

As all who have read thus far have perceived, I usually

quote only the essential parts of letters; thinking it

useless to occupy space with addresses and signatures,

and undesirable to waste the reader's attention over super

fluous passages. But occasionally there comes a letter all

parts of which have one or other significance, and which

it is therefore desirable to quote in full. Here is one of

this class, written  from Birmingham on 18 March, 1845.
" My dear Lott,
" You fully succeeded in raising my curiosity to boiling

point by your three-page prelude to the tit-bit of news.

' Botheration to him,' I every now and then exclaimed as I
found myself baulked, just as I thought I was coming to the

pith of the matter, by some new prefatory remarks --' when

will he come to the point?' Truly, I was strongly remind

ed of the scenes we oftentimes find depicted in old novels,

where some garrulous domestic charged with the delivery

of news of vital importance, edifies his breathlessly-anx

ious listeners with introductory remeiniscences concerning

something that his or her grandmother had seen or heard

talk of.
   " Great however as were my anticipations concerning the

extraordinary interest of the promised intelligence, they were

wholly transcended by the reality. Had you seen the height

to which my eyebrows were elevated, you would have been

in fear lest they should never find their way down again.

Probably they would have reminded you of Mr. B  's when

he sings ' Fly away.' And then, after all when they did

settle themselves to their usual level, I began -- I began --
what will you say to me when I confess that --that I began
to laugh ! Why I laughed I really cannot say. You know

that I consider myself somewhat of an adept in the analysis

          21 305

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                                              [1844

of feeling, but I own that in this case I am at fault. I think

my laughter chiefly proceeded from sympathy with you, and

it may be that it partly arose from the incongruous image

that immediately presented itself to my mind of so sedate a

young man as yourself making a declaration ; for I must

own that to me a declaration always carries with it a spice

of the ludicrous, and I have a considerable horror of making

one myself, partly on that account.

  "After my laughter had subsided, however, I began to

feel rather envious, seeing that you who are three years my

junior should have already found someone to love you, whilst

poor I am for aught I can see far enough from such a
desideratum. I often feel melancholy enough at not having

yet found any one to serve for the type of my ideal, and

were it not that I make up the deficiency as well as I can
by anticipations of future happiness, I should scarcely think

existence worth having.

  " I do not think you can entertain much fear as to my
criticism upon your choice. You know I have a very high
opinion of Emily Roe, and I think you might have sought
Ifar before you found one so well suited to you. Now that

consider it there appears to be much harmony of feeling

and sentiment between you, and this is perhaps one of the

first essentials to permanent happiness. The difference of
age is the only drawback that I see, and perhaps one's

notions on this point originate more in popular prejudice

than in reason. You have had abundant opportunity of
studying each other's characters ; and I should say that
the knowledge thus obtained will be a guarantee for matri

monial felicity (how very odd that term seems by the way
as applied to you).

   " I little thought that the conversation we had upon the

subject of marriage when you were here, was of such

immediate interest to you. Now that I do know however,

   almost think must recapitulate for your especial benefit,
the opinions then expressed so here goes.
I
             I

                    I

                                                                              ;

                                                                                         it,

306

JEx. 24]             A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

"1. You agree I believe with Emerson that the true

sentiment of love between man and woman arises from each

serving as the representative of the other's ideal. From

this position I think we may deduce the corollary that the

first condition to happiness in the married state is continuance

of that representation of the ideal; and hence the conduct
of each towards the other should always be so regulated as to

give no offence to ideality. And on this ground I conceive

that instead of there being, as is commonly the case, a

greater familiarity and carelessness with regard to appear
ances between husband and wife, there ought to be a

greater delicacy than between any other parties.

   "2. There should be a thorough recognition on both sides

of the equality of rights, and no amount of power should

ever be claimed by the one party greater than that claimed

by the other. The present relationship existing between
husband and wife, where one claims a command over the

actions of the other, is nothing more than a remnant of the
                                It is necessarily destructive of
old leaven of slavery.

refined love; for how can a man continue to regard as his

type of the ideal a being whom he has, by denying an

equality of privilege with himself, degraded to something

below himself f To me the exercise of command on the

part of the husband seems utterly repugnant to genuine love,

and I feel sure that a man of generous feeling has too much

sympathy with the dignity of his wife to think of dictating
to her, and that no woman of truly noble mind will submit to

be dictated to.
"
          The  last  important  condition  I  hold  to be  the  forget
   3.

ting, to as great an extent as possible, the existence of a legal

bond, and the continual dependence upon the natural bond
Iof affection.
                     do not conceive the most perfect happiness

attainable while the legal bond continues; for as we can

never rid ourselves of the consciousness of         it,    must always
                                                       it

influence our conduct. But the next best thing to destroy

                                307

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1844

wife strive to act towards each other as they would were

there no such tie.

  " If men were wise they would see that the affection that

God has implanted in us is amply sufficient, when not weak

ened by artificial aid, to ensure permanence of union; and

if they would have more faith in this all would go well.
To tie together by human law what God has tied together

by passion, is about as wise as it would be to chain the moon

to the earth lest the natural attraction existing between them

should not be sufficient to prevent them flying asunder.

  " There ! I hope you will duly cogitate upon my lecture.

Perhaps it may not be quite the thing to talk to a lover about

the philosophy of love. I rather think, however, that it is

well in all cases to let practice be guided by some theory

rather than by nothing; and I think it is well for all incipi

ent Benedicts to get definite opinions upon the matter.

  " But whatever theory you may adopt I think you will
believe me when I say that I hope the result may be
abundant happiness; and if I should be so fortunate as to
be able to accelerate that happiness, I assure you it will be

a matter of great gratification to me.

  " We are still here in a state of uncertainty, but I am in
daily expectation of the matter being determined. If it is

Ifsettled favourably we shall go up to London immediately.

otherwise you will in all probability soon see me at Derby.
   " I lately bought Shelley's poems in four volumes. It will

be a great treat to you to read them, which you shall do the

first time I come over. His ' Prometheus Unbound ' is the
most beautiful thing I ever read by far.

   " There is a book not long since published called ' Vestiges

of the Natural History of Creation ' which I heard very

highly spoken of by a gentleman at Liverpool, who was

evidently a good judge. From what I hear I think you

would like it. Would it not suit the Mechanics ?

  ' I am sorry to hear that your sister is still so delicate.

308

/Et. 24]         A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

a restoration. Give my kind regards to her and your mother,

and also to the ladies over the way; and receive yourself

all appropriate  congratulations and good wishes from
                                      " Your affectionate friend,
                                                " Herbert Spencer."

   Respecting the contents of this letter it seems proper to
remark that at the age of 73, one must not be held bound
to all the opinions one expressed at the age of 24.

   During January, February, and March, 1845, our rail
way scheme had been in a state of suspended animation.
The times were those during which the chief railway com
panies were fighting for territories -- poaching upon one

another's manors : aggression being followed by counter-
aggression. The Great Western Company was going to
Parliament for powers to make the Oxford, Worcester,
and Wolverhampton line --a line which threatened to

compete injuriously not only with the North Western,
but also with the Birmingham and Gloucester (or was it
the Midland? for an expression in one of my letters

suggests to me that possibly the amalgamation had at

that time taken place). A result of this invasion on the

part of the Great Western, was the getting up of the

scheme with which I was connected -- a line starting from

Worcester and running through Droitwich, Kiddermin
ster, Stourbridge, and Dudley to Wolverhampton. Dur

ing these early months of 1845 there was, I suspect, some
kind of negotiation going on. At any rate there was

considerable doubt whether our line would be proceeded

with--a doubt which, in the mind of Mr. Hughes, became

so complete a disbelief that on the 20th March he sent
me an account of what was due for my services, with

the promise to send me a cheque in a few days when he

received his own.

                                                  309

                       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                             [^44

Suddenly, however, there came a transformation scene ;

as is implied by the following paragraph in a letter to my
                        March: --
father   dated   31st  I did not return  to  Derby  with  you,  as  you
        is well  that
  " It

proposed when you were here ; for the day after you left

this, news arrived that we were to proceed with our bill,

and on the following morning I had to go off express to

Pembroke to see Mr. Hughes."

The letter then proceeds to describe how I went by rail to

Gloucester, by coach to Carmarthen, and thence by post-

chaise to Pembroke. But the expedition is best pour-
trayed in a letter subsequently written to Lott :--

  "And first I must not forget that just after I last wrote
to you I had a very agreeable journey into South Wales. I

wish you had been with me. Your poetical feelings would
have had a great gratification. A day's journey through a con

stantly changing scene of cloud-capped hills with here and

there a sparkling and romantic river winding perhaps round

the base of some ruined castle, is a treat not often equalled.

I enjoyed it much. When I reached the seaside, however,

and found myself once again within sound of the breakers,

I almost danced with pleasure. To me there is no place so

delightful as the beach. It is the place where, more than
anywhere else, philosophy and poetry meet--where in fact

you are presented by Nature with a never-ending feast

of knowledge and beauty. There is no place where I can so

palpably realize Emerson's remark that ' Nature is the cir

cumstance which dwarfs every other circumstance.'

  " I was most interested during my journey in observing

the features and characteristics of the Welsh ; and one cir

cumstance I noticed will amuse you. A country girl travelled

for a few miles by my side on the top of the coach, and,

after making sundry enquiries as to the peculiarities of the

Ipeople, ventured to ask her whether she was partly Welsh

                       310

Ex. 24]    A PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

what do you think led me to ask the question ? She was very

like you. I fancied I could detect in various faces in the

towns we passed through, the same cast of features, which,

as I took
:

          it,

                     I

                                                        a

                                        it I

                                                                                                                                1
           indicated the mixed race.      admired them much

(now don't accuse me of flattery)."

Returning from Tenby by way of Bristol and London

(to see Mr. Hughes), reached Birmingham before the

end of the month, merely to leave again almost imme

diately. A letter to my uncle Thomas dated                                                                                         April
says --
   " We are now about to spend     few days in walking over

the line to refresh our memories with what may have been

forgotten, and we are then to proceed to London to enter

upon the parliamentary business."

Here am shown how dangerous               it         to say that an
         I                                    is is
              I
incident never happened because there no recollection

of it. Had not by this, and another passage in the

letter, been made to think about     it,  and had not been
                                                     it

that while all the rest had faded absolutely, one solitary

incident at the hotel in Kidderminster was recalled by

effort, should have asserted quite positively that no
I

such expedition as this ever took place.

                 3ii

                      CHAPTER XVII.

                    AN INTERVAL IN TOWN.

                       1845. ^t- 24--5.

   Private bills, or at least all of those asking for au

thority to interfere with lands, houses, roads, or other
possessions, public or private, have (or then had) to pass
through a preliminary stage, which is known as examina
tion by Committee on Standing Orders. Justice obvi
ously requires that all whose properties will certainly, or
probably, or even possibly, be interfered with in the execu
tion of the proposed works, shall be duly informed of the
impending interferences; so that they may be prepared
for opposing, if need be, the desired authorization. It is,
therefore, directed that detailed plans and sections, show
ing what is to be done, shall be deposited in the localities
affected (and afterwards the relevant parts of the plans,
&c, in each parish), a considerable time before the meet
ing of Parliament ; and that there should also be made
accessible, certain " books of reference," by which the
plans, &c, may be interpreted. Of course these require
ments may be adequately or inadequately fulfilled ; and it
is the function of the Standing Orders Committee to go
carefully through the plans, &c, to see whether they
sufficiently meet the requirements : usually being guided
in their judgments by the criticisms of experts, employed
by opponents to detect errors and shortcomings. Always

                                                  312

JEt. 24-5]      AN INTERVAL IN TOWN

covered ; and the Committee has to decide whether these

imperfections are or are not so serious as to invalidate the

application.

  In the days of which I write, the new Houses of Par

liament were in course of erection. The part eventually

provided for committee-rooms had not been built, and

there ran along the Thames-side a temporary wooden

structure, divided into the many apartments at that time

required for those who dealt with the many railway-bills

brought before Parliament. A long corridor, carpeted

with cocoa-nut matting to diminish noise, flanked these

chambers of inquisition ; and, during the day up to 4
o'clock, this corridor served as a promenade for various

of those who were concerned in the schemes before one

or other committee, or about shortly to be brought before

one. Here, along with coadjutors, there were daily to

be met old engineering friends ; and the talk, now grave,
now gay, broken from time to time by visits into the
committee rooms to see how this or that inquiry was

progressing, filled a life which for a short time was

pleasant enough, but which eventually came to be rather

wearisome. Hence the following extract from a letter
                    25 April :--
written home    on                 through  the  Standing  Orders
   " Yesterday  we  passed safely

Committee, and, greatly to our satisfaction, put an end to our

sauntering-in-parliamentary-lobbies-life, which has now

lasted for about ten days.
   " Mr. Hughes left for Pembroke last night, where he will

remain until the 5th May, when we are to go into com
Imittee ' on the merits,' as it is technically called.
                                                           have to

make sundry preparations, such as getting out the rest of

the bridge drawings, &c, &c, which will fully occupy the

intervening time. . . .

                         313

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845

the ' Great Britain ' steamer. I hear that it is well worth a

visit in a professional point of view."

   There is also in this letter a brief reference to such

small amount of social intercourse as I then had; but of

this, more presently.

   The weariness of this waiting was compensated by

London distractions, of which I now took a fair share.
During my residence in Town when 17, I never went to a
place of amusement ; but now that I had more means I

yielded to the appetite for theatricals. The following

letter to Lott, dated 7 May, contains passages expressing
opinions about some kinds of them: --

  " Hutton [an elder brother of R. H. Hutton] and I went
together to the Opera. I was dreadfully disappointed. I

was not roused to an emotion of anything like enthusiasm

during the whole time. The inconsistencies of recitative

dialogue, the singing words of wholly opposite meanings to
the same harmony, &c, &c, so continually annoyed me as

to destroy all the pleasure due to the music or the story.

Neither was the effect of the music so great as I had
anticipated. It did not fulfil its ambition, if you understand

what that means. The effects of its several parts were not

powerful enough to render them fit portions of so large a

composition. The structure wanted a massiveness more in

proportion to its size. As it was, it gave me the idea of

rickettiness.

  " However, I am going to give the thing another trial.
The Opera I heard was ' Sonnambula,' and some of the first
singers were absent, so that I did not hear the greatest
effects. To-morrow night Hutton and I are going to hear

' Don Giovanni.' "
   The result of this second trial was much like that of

the first. It seemed to me that a series of pretty airs and

3H

JEt. 24-5]  AN INTERVAL IN TOWN

Then, as always, I was intolerant of gross breaches of

probability. Though able to listen without too obtru
sive a sense of incongruity to the melodic renderings of
their feelings by hero and heroine, since song is natural

to high emotion, yet I could not help making internal

protests against the extension of musical utterance to
other characters in the drama, who were not similarly
moved. That serving-men and waiting-maids should be

made poetical, and prompted to speak in recitative, be

cause their masters and mistresses happened to be in love,

was too conspicuous an absurdity ; and the consciousness
of this absurdity went far towards destroying what pleas

ure I might otherwise have derived from the work. It is

with music as with painting-- a great divergence from

naturalness in any part, so distracts my attention from
the meaning or intention of the whole, as almost to cancel

gratification.
   There is in the same letter mention of Haydn's Crea

tion, and of the pleasure I derived from hearing it. In

the absence of attempted dramatic rendering, attention
could, when listening to this, be given more fully to the
music ; and any incongruities felt were far less pro

nounced.

  Following the order of dates, I am led here to quote a

letter relevant to a very different matter -- the ending of

a friendship. Up to this time there had been kept up the
                             ; and, now that I had
correspondence with E. A. B

come to London, he spent an evening with me at 64,

Stafford Place, Pimlico, where I was lodging. Our con

versation ended in a theological discussion, in which my

rationalistic views, then more pronounced than at the

            315

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845

disclosed. There resulted a letter from him dated May

6, 1845 :--
" My dear Spencer,

   " It is now fast drawing towards the close of the fifth year
since I made your acquaintance, and I hope I need not assure

you that your friendship during that period has been one of

my chief sources of pleasure. From the time when accident

threw us together at Worcester, and from circumstances we

were so intimately associated, I have always felt the strongest

feelings of regard towards you and was pleased to think

those feelings mutual.

   " I merely remind you of this to show you that it could

be no ordinary cause which could induce me to renounce

voluntarily a friendship which has afforded me so very much

gratification as yours has done ; that the necessity has ac

crued for so doing I shall ever most deeply regret and it is
only after long and painful thought that I have been induced

to see the necessity of it.
   " That we have held different opinions upon many points

of more or less importance, I am perfectly aware ; but as
far as I can call to mind, they have been always upon points

upon which such difference has been to a very considerable

extent allowable, or upon subjects which are, and must remain,

matters of opinion. But the subjects which we discussed

last Saturday (as far as I can recollect for the first time) do
not I think belong to either of these classes. They involve

everything in our existence of more than momentary interest;

our principles and practice, hopes and fears, our happiness

or misery here and hereafter. Such matters are of no light

moment, and it seems to me that no two persons holding so

very different views as you and I do upon such vital points
can remain friends to each other. Did I think that there were
the remotest chance of anything that I could urge by way
of argument or persuasion I should feel that I was bound to

316

Mt. 24-5]  AN INTERVAL IN TOWN

view of the truths of religion, but I know so well that no

argument on such a subject ever yet convinced one who has

closed his ears to everything but human reason, that I feel it

would be utterly useless ; and the only likely consequence that

could ensue would be to shake the belief that I feel so very

strongly the truth of. I would to God that I practised all I

believe so thoroughly, as far as intellectual belief may go;

but which avails absolutely nothing, if it be not accompanied
by the belief of the heart. Feeling, as I do, so very painfully

that my faith is so little the heartfelt faith which should

actuate the true Christian, the danger which might accrue

from my association with one so talented as yourself, and so

well able to make the worst appear the better reason, I must

therefore at however great a sacrifice (and believe me I feel
it to be a great one) renounce the pleasure I have received

from your acquaintance and request that henceforth we meet

no more or meet as strangers. I shall ever remember the
past with pleasure and think of you with kindness and I trust

that nothing may prevent your feeling similarly towards

myself."

Then follows the expression of a hope that I shall

abandon " the lamp of human wisdom " and come round
to wiser views. This letter I sent on to Lott ; saying that
" there was much to be admired in its sincerity " if not in

its liberality. Lott's rejoinder was that did he similarly

feel any such danger from our association, he, too, should

renounce the friendship.

A subsequent letter from E. A. B  , in answer to

one of mine, agreed that though our intimacy must cease,

there was no reason why, when we met, we should not

meet as old friends. Thereafter no intercourse between

us took place for years. Though two of his sisters when

visiting Derby (where a younger brother had settled as

                          317

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                  [1845

relations should be resumed, I declined taking any step

until their brother gave the sign. In 185 1, soon after the

publication of my first book, I did indeed spend an

evening with his father and family, and again met him in
quite a friendly way ; but since that time, save when
meeting in the street once or twice, we have never seen

one another.

While one friend was lost, others were gained. During

those days in April and May, the acquaintanceship with

Mr. and Mrs. Potter, which had been initiated while I

was visiting Mr. Heyworth at Liverpool, began to de

velop into a friendship. The already quoted letter of 25

April, speaks of spending an evening with them ; and a
                                     the paragraph :--
let"teOr nofTh2u5rsMdaayy  contains  I breakfasted with  my  uncle  at
                           morning

the Potters' in company with Mr. Heyworth. Mr. Potter

behaved very kindly. I dined there twice during the visit

of my uncle and aunt, and should also have spent last Tues

day evening there with my uncle had I been disengaged. Mr.

Heyworth, too, was very cordial in his desire that I should
come to see him at Yew Tree whenever I had an oppor

tunity."

A passage in a letter from my uncle to my father, dated
two days later, referring to this same meeting at Mr.
Potter's, says of me: --

   " He was also at the complete suffrage meeting at the
Crown and Anchor on Wednesday evening. Mr. Potter told

me that he had requested him to make a short speech at a

Temperance Hall to which he took him, but that Herbert

declined. I think it would be much for Herbert's own benefit
if he were to commence in a quiet way the practice of public

speaking."

                                     318

/£t. 24-5]  AN INTERVAL IN TOWN

not go beyond evenings spent, and occasional excursions

made, with old engineering friends. Writing to Lott
some two months later, I said :--

   " You have no notion how miserably off I am here for
society --more especially female society. It is now at least
two months since I have come in contact with any well

educated and agreeable woman; for, unluckily, Mr. Potter

and his wife and sister have latterly been out of town and I
have been deprived of the only society that I prize. . . .

   " For want of other resource, Loch (whom you have seen)

and I have very frequently spent the evening together in

argument, which we have upon several occasions prolonged

until one in the morning."

   This last statement surprises me ; for though in early

days an animated talker, and when with a chosen com

panion able to go on for hours, I did not remember

talking till past midnight. The besoin de parler, requiring

to be satisfied irrespective of the person and the topic,

never existed in me ; and for these many years I have felt

no inclination for continued conversation. Still greater

is the change in a further respect. That I should be able

to sleep after arguing till late into the night, seems to me

now almost incredible.

   Reverting to the business course of my life, there has

here to be quoted, from a letter to my mother dated May

24th, a passage foreshadowing an entire change of pros

pects.

   " Our Railway Bill was withdrawn on Tuesday last in
favour of the London and Birmingham scheme, so that my
engagement is concluded. There is, however, no cause for

regret, as you will readily acknowledge when I tell you that
yesterday, as I was sauntering about the Committee-room

            319

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845

him for about half an hour during his meetings with various

people, I walked with him arm-in-arm to his offices in Tra
falgar Square. During our walk he was very communica

tive with regard to their affairs, and behaved altogether in a
very friendly manner." *

And then, on the 5th June, there was sent to my father a
statement of definite results.

   " I have satisfactorily concluded my engagement with Mr.
Fox. My occupation will be a very agreeable one. I am to

collect information with regard to the particulars of all works
for which the firm propose to tender --to inspect the designs

according to which the work is to be executed, where such

have been made, and to obtain all necessary information with
regard to them -- and where there have been no designs made,
to obtain from the parties a definite understanding as to the

requirements of the case, and then to superintend the getting

out of designs."

   This engagement appeared advantageous and promised

permanence. Further passages imply another pleasurable
anticipation -- frequent exercise of the inventive faculty,
which the post was likely to call for.

  Again I interrupt the narrative to show, so far as may

be, the nature of my thoughts in those days ; and also to

show the small regard for authority, displayed then as
always. In a letter to Lott, already above quoted from,
there occurs the passage :--

  * Here it must be explained that soon after I left Mr. Fox in 1837, he

gave up his post as resident engineer of the London and Birmingham
Railway (London half) and entered into partnership with Mr. Bramah

(either the inventor of the hydraulic press or his son, I don't know

which), at that time carrying on extensive mechanical engineering
works. The new firm, Bramah and Fox, extended its operations to
works of other kinds. Bramah shortly afterwards ceased to be a mem
ber of the firm, and at the time above spoken of it had become Fox,
Henderson, & Co.

                                                  320

JEt. 24-5]  AN INTERVAL IN TOWN

" I have been reading some of Carlyle's essays. They are

very beautifully written and as usual with all his writing,

interestingly also. They do not however give the same im

pression of genius as his other works. In some cases I

thought him by no means deep. Some of his quotations from

the prose writings of Goethe, were in my estimation not at

all creditable either to the author or the critic. I fancy I

see you curling your lip at these cavalier remarks on your
       "
hero
      !

   My impression is that this disrespectful estimate re
ferred to the doctrine of renunciation, set forth by Goethe
in his account of " The Renunciants," and applauded by

Carlyle ; and probably I then thought, as I think still,

that it implies anything but a profound conception of

human nature --a conception like many of those current

among the uncultured, who assume that the emotions can
be produced or suppressed at will. The entire mechanism

of animate life, brute and human, would be dislocated if

the desires which prompt actions were governable in this

easy way. The common idea, as well as the Goethe-

Carlyle idea, is that the feelings constitute an assembly
under the autocratic control of the " will " ; whereas they

constitute an assembly over which there reigns no estab

lished autocrat, but of which now one member and now

another gets possession of the presidential     chair  (then
temporarily acquiring the title of " the will          rules
                                               ") and

the rest for a time : being frequently, if not strong,

ejected by combinations of others, and occasionally, if

strong, effectually resisting their efforts. It is in these

last cases that the forcible deposition of the tyrant emo

tion is proposed. When the feeling overwhelms all

others, we are told that it should be put down ; and the

putting down of it becomes practicable only in proportion

            22 321

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845

as it becomes needless. Tell a mother who has just lost
a child, or a lover whose to-morrow's bride has been

drowned, that grief must be suppressed in conformity
with the doctrine that pleasures are not to be counted
upon, and that she or he must accept a lower standard of
happiness. What result is there? None whatever.
While sorrow is extreme, consciousness is entirely occu
pied by it. No alien thought or feeling can gain entrance.
Until its intensity has caused exhaustion, and a relative
inability to feel, the desirableness of resignation cannot

even be listened to, and when it can be listened to the
effect is evanescent : recovery from the temporary
paralysis of emotion is followed by another paroxysm,
during which the propriety of doing without the lost
happiness is urged on deaf ears. Only in course of time,
when the natural curative process has in chief measure
wrought its effect, and the feelings have readjusted them

selves to the new conditions --that is, only after " renun
ciation " has been in large measure spontaneously ef
fected,--can the doctrine of renunciation be listened to,
and give form to the new mental state reached. The
truth is that in mankind, as in all other kinds, each
faculty, bodily or mental, has a normal craving for ac
tion. Where the faculty is not a powerful one, and the
normal craving is relatively weak, it may be kept out of
consciousness. But where it is a strong craving of an
important faculty, exclusion of it becomes almost or
quite impossible. A bodily appetite, like that of hunger
or thirst, furnishes the best test of the doctrine. No one
dreams of saying to a starving man that he must get rid
of the misery due to his unsatisfied desire by renouncing
the gratification of eating, or that, when exposed to a

322

Mr. 24-5]      AN INTERVAL IN TOWN

himself content by ceasing to wish for warmth. And the

absurdity, here rendered manifest because the feelings in

questions are so strong, holds throughout the whole

nature.

    But this doctrine of Goethe jumped with Carlyle's anti-

utilitarianism, and with his ridiculous notion that happi

ness is of no consequence. This notion would have been

considerably modified by passing some months in a dark

dungeon on bread and water. Or           after such an exI if,

perience, he had still refused to admit that gratificationsa
of various kinds ought to be pursued, his body, at anya

rate, would have testified that they ought.

    This parenthetical discussion may not unfitly be taken

to symbolize the parenthesis in my career which here

occurred. Incidents named page or two back, appar
                              :a
ently implied that was about to be settled for consid
               1                                        a
                                                               a
                  &I
                                                                 a
erable period. The settlement lasted for but short time,

however, as witness the following extract from letter
to Lott dated August, 1845 --

   " You have probably heard at Wilmot St. that have left
                                   I 8,                 I

Fox, Henderson, Co. and that did so in consequence of

the attempt to put upon me work which had not agreed to

do, and the command to do which paid no attention to (like
                                   I

my democratic spirit was not?) whereupon quarrel ensued
                      if
which ended in our separation.
   " My future movements are just at present undecided.it

Very probably  I  shall be engaged upon               line in Holland

from Amsterdam to the Helder, of which my friend Jackson

is  to be engineer, and this scheme misses fire shall prob
                                                        I

                                                                      a
ably retain my present engagement in connexion with the

projected Crewe and Aberystwith Line. Probably fort

night will decide the matter one way or other."

    This line between Aberystwith and Crewe had been

                              323

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845

projected by one whose name the reader may remember

as occurring a few chapters back-- Mr. W. B. Prichard.

No impression remains with me of anything done in con

nexion with it. Certainly I did not join the survey party,

of which my friend Loch was one. For some reason, the

scheme dropped through comparatively early in the sea

son : whether because the engineering difficulties were

great, or because the local landowners, not yet so much

alive as the English landowners had become to the bene

fits of railways, gave it no countenance, I cannot tell.

But, as we shall presently see, Mr. Prichard had more

strings than one to his bow.

324

                    CHAPTER XVIII.

           ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY.

                       1845 --46- -^Et. 25 --26.

  The rise of the railway-mania dates back, I think, to

the autumn of 1844, after the profitableness of railway-
investments, and the advantages of railway-communica
tions, had been, for several years, growing conspicuous.
Dividends on some of the leading lines, such as the
London and Birmingham, had risen to as much as 10 per
cent., and £100 shares stood at £234. In earlier days
landowners had been strenuous opponents of those
" new fangled " highways, which got Act-of-Parliament
authority for cutting up their fields and interfering with
their privacy. But ten years' teaching had changed their
ideas, and made them anxious to profit by that raised
value of land which railway proximity gave. Some
towns, too, (such as Nottingham, which successfully re
sisted establishment of the central Midland Station in
its suburbs), had seen the error of their ways, and be
came eager for that which they had previously rejected.
Meanwhile, there had been yearly increasing the classes
of contractors, engineers, and lawyers, professionally in
terested in railway-enterprise, and ready to co-operate
in getting up new schemes.

   There had, indeed, commenced inversions of the orig

                                                  325

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

making railways and those who made them -- inversions

which by and by became common. During the thirties,
speculative local magnates and far-seeing capitalists,
having projected railways which would obviously be ad
vantageous, thereupon chose their engineers, and sub
sequently let portions of their works to contractors;
but, as fast as there grew up considerable classes of
wealthy contractors, and of rich engineers accustomed
to co-operate with them, it became the habit for these

to join in getting up schemes, forming companies, and
practically appointing boards -- a policy in all ways bene
ficial to themselves. Thus, by 1845, there had arisen
many and various interests uniting to urge on railway-
enterprise; and any one who took a broad view of the

causes in operation, might have seen that great disasters

were certain to ensue.

   Naturally with a public having excited imaginations

of profit, stimulated by men who had large spoils in pros
pect, it became easy to " float " multitudinous schemes

-- bad almost as readily as good. It needed but to take a

map of Great Britain, and look out for a comparatively
blank space where there were towns of some size; run
a pencil-mark through a string of them; gather to
gether some known local names, headed, if possible, by
one with a title; issue flaming advertisements; and peo
ple rushed in to take shares. Mr. W. B. Prichard was
one who seized the opportunity; and, having no lack of

self-confidence, and abundant energy, readily achieved a

certain success. His first venture, as already intimated,
collapsed; but a second, in the prosecution of which I
was employed by him, lived through sundry of the early
stages. His proposed line, commencing at Northamp
ton, ran through Weedon, Daventry, Southam, Leam-

326

JEt. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

ington, Warwick, Stratford-on-Avon, and by Alcester to
Worcester. As compared with those of many projects
which at that time found favour, the mercantile prospects
of this were not unpromising. Though the cross
country traffic from end to end might not have been con
siderable, yet, from the numerous places brought into
connexion with the great trunk lines, a good deal of

business might have come. A City-firm of lawyers,
young and without established name, joined Mr. Prich-

ard in this second venture ; and having obtained, as their

chairman and chief decoy-duck, Sir John De Beauvoir,

they enlisted some notables from the towns to be advan
taged, formed a board, and issued a sufficiently attrac
tive prospectus.

   Pleasant recollections come back to me on thinking
of the latter half of August, the whole of September, and
the first half of October, during which the initiation of
this scheme, and first stages of its progress, took
place. To begin with, there was a drive with Mr. Prich-
ard from Weedon to Warwick, to inspect the line of
country to be followed. Then came a meeting of pro
moters, held at the chief hotel in Northampton, to which

I was sent by Mr. Prichard as his representative: he

being otherwise engaged. The successful issue of this
meeting was followed by a drive with a party of the pro
posed directors, repeating the one taken shortly before.

During this drive I was occasionally cross-questioned re

specting the required works and the time to be taken
over them; and, meanwhile, had an opportunity of judg
ing those whose names either were, or were about to be,
put before the public as sponsers. Neither intellectually
nor morally did they commend themselves to me. In

                                                  327

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

some, the eager grasping at pecuniary advantage was

very conspicuous; and one I more especially remember
--a London barrister --left on me an impression of greed

such as we hear of in those round a Monte Carlo

gambling table. The excursion itself, however, was

pleasant enough; and it was not altogether unpleasant

to be appealed to as an engineering authority: feeling,

though I did, that my answers had intrinsically by no

means the weight ascribed to them, but feeling, also,

that they had perhaps as much weight as those of their

engineer-in-chief.  Not long subsequently came the

gathering at Northampton of the staff of surveyors, and

the apportioning of their various divisions to them. My

own business immediately thereafter was that of making

a trial-section of the proposed line.

   Of the various sub-occupations into which the gen

eral occupation of a civil engineer is divisible, that of

levelling is perhaps the most agreeable --at any rate in
fine weather. As compared with surveying, it has the

advantage that the strain on the attention is much less.

During the carrying of the level from each station to the

next by an attendant, there is a brief walk of one or two

hundred yards or more; and the surrounding pretty

scenery, if there be any, may be enjoyed. Adjustment

of the level, a purely mechanical process made easy by

practice, is quickly effected ; the attendants, carrying the

two staves, are soon made to perform properly their re

spective parts, if they are tolerably intelligent; and then
the two observations -- " back-sight " and " fore-sight "
as they are called -- severally taking but a few seconds,

require nothing more than accuracy of perception and

                    328

Mi. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

Leamington, 12 October, that practice had rendered me
tolerably efficient.

   " I sometimes level upwards of 5 miles in a day, and my

levels have always proved within a foot in distances of 15 to

20 miles. In the last section I finished, the error was 0.35

of a foot in 15 miles, or about 4 inches."
The day's out-door work, beginning with a drive to the
ground after breakfast, and ending with a drive back, or
onward to the next stopping place, early in the evening,
has but a small in-door addition. After a dinner made
enjoyable by the moderate exercise continued through
the day, there remains only half-an-hour's attention to
what is called " reducing " the levels-- preparing the ob
servations taken for graphic representation on paper,
as a section. The rest of the evening is available for
chat with a companion leveller, if there be one-- made
especially pleasant if he be a friend, as happened in this
case. The fine autumn of 1845 yielded me in these ways
many gratifications.

   It was not in my nature to follow the beaten track in
this out-of-door engineering work, any more than
other work. Everywhere there is opportunity for im

provement, manifest enough to those whose field of view

is not narrowed by custom. It was so here.
   In the course of preceding months -- probably during

my experience of the previous autumn -- I had become

dissatisfied with the ordinary mode of dividing levelling
staves. It failed to meet sundry desiderata. The result

was that before leaving town, I had busied myself in

making two sets of papers divided after a new mode, to
be fastened (glued and varnished over) by the maker on

                                                   329

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

papers: being obliged by shortness of time to sit up the
greater part of one night to complete them. Explana
tions and drawings will be found in Appendix G.

   Successful innovation of this kind soon led to one of
another kind. Dissatisfaction with the ordinary process
of " plotting " sections, prompted a little appliance for
economizing labour and insuring greater accuracy.

While in the country I could not utilize my plan ; but,

judging by the date of their bill, must have sent draw
ings to Messrs. Troughton and Sims with an order to

make the instrument for me, and, during subsequent
stages of the work in town, used it with advantage. De

tails are given in Appendix G.
   With these small inventions which were put to use,

may be joined the project of a more ambitious one which

was not put to use. A solitary evening at the hotel in

Stratford-on-Avon, was spent in thinking over certain
defects in the ordinary type of " dumpy level " and in

making sketches of an arrangement by which they might

be avoided. When, subsequently, occasion favoured, I

laid my plans first before one optician and then before an
other; but neither of them would agree to make a level of
the proposed kind at his own risk, and, as the cost would

have been probably some £20, I did not like to under

take the risk myself. The advantages of the design were

sufficiently obvious; but the opticians I negotiated with
had adverse interests which I did not at that time recog

nize, but which were, many years later, revealed to me in
connexion with another invention. When a trader has

a large stock of anything, it often does not answer his
purpose to introduce an improved thing, which will dis

credit his stock and diminish its value.
   Occasionally, during recent years, I have been

                                                  330

,Et. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

prompted to get one of these improved levels made : be
ing no longer deterred by the thought of cost. But con
tinually decreasing energies, and the need for avoiding

distractions, have prevented me. In Appendix G are

contained sketches sufficient to make the plan compre
hensible.

   During those autumn months the railway-mania had
gone on rising, and had spread into all classes. Even
my father, not a man of business and living wholly out
side the current of commercial affairs, had been, by a
mercantile friend in Derby, induced to join in the gen

eral rush. A local project had been recommended to

him, and, in response to his application, shares had been

allotted. I heard of this step with disapproval, if not in

deed with dismay, as witness the following extract from
a letter dated 6 October: --

   " I was, I assure you, by no means glad to hear that you
had been meddling in this kind of speculation, which I think
is exceedingly objectionable in several respects. I have
wholly refrained from it myself, though I have no doubt,
from my acquaintance with directors, I might have had
shares allotted to me in the undertakings with which I am
connected. I have refrained for two reasons ; one because
I have no faith in the bona fide character of the schemes now

afloat, inasmuch as the majority of them are started merely

for the purpose of creating shares to speculate in, and I do

not think it altogether the thing to buy shares with no ulti
mate intention of keeping them, and only for the purpose of
profiting by the premium to which they are expected to rise.
My second reason for refraining from such speculation, is

that I consider the share-market in so exceedingly unstable a

state, in consequence of the circumstances to which I have

                                                   331

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

anything to do with it. I am fully convinced that some panic

will very shortly arise, the advent of which may be wholly

unexpected and apparently causeless, and I would therefore

strongly advise you to put yourself in a safe position by selling

Iout at once. I assure you I shall be very fidgety until hear
that you have done so, for I should say, from what I know

of the railway-accommodation of the district through which
the Derby and Gainsborough line will pass, that it is one of

the bubble-schemes to which I have been alluding and will

never be carried out."

To my father's reply, not discoverable among my papers,
the following response was sent: --

  " If you do not feel inclined to sell all your shares at once,
which I still strongly recommend, by all means sell half, as

you propose. I assure you that none of these schemes can be
considered safe. I do not speak without good grounds, for I

have come in contact with many of the directors and pro

moters of them, and I know most certainly from their conver
sation, that their great, and I may say only, object, is to get

their shares to a good premium and then sell out. So long

as this is the general intent there is no knowing how soon
the smash may come, for on the least alarm all will be want
ing to sell and the shares will be at a discount."

Then, in an undated letter, which, however, appears to

have been written some days before the 20th, I wrote: --

   " Very numerous orders are arriving in London from the
country to sell railway-shares. This may very possibly lead
to a panic, and if so your shares will go down to a discount.
I think you had better sell out at once by all means."

And on the 21st I expressed my satisfaction that he had

promptly acted on this advice, and, as it appears, only

just in time, for already the panic was beginning.

   Referring to the feeling expressed in the first of the

332

/Et. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

then, but ever since, I have acted upon the principle
indicated. It is now nearly 50 years since the letter was
written, and never, during the interval, have I bought

shares or bonds save as permanent investments.

   Often, during this interval, I have debated with my

self the question whether any legislative restriction on
the traffic in shares would be useful, and whether it
would fall within those limits of State-functions which

I have so strenuously insisted upon. It has sometimes

seemed to me that since, for the administration of justice,
contracts which are to be adjudicated upon are tacitly
understood to be bona fide contracts, such that the prop
erty in question is actually, and not apparently, bought,
it might not be improper if the law should refuse to
recognize transactions in which the forms of buying and
selling are gone through without any intention of taking
real possession. Certainly the permission to allow nom
inal purchases to pass as though they were real pur
chases, leads to very great mischiefs and even to some

thing like national disasters. But I have never been

able to decide whether the implied check on transactions
in shares would be theoretically legitimate or practically

beneficial.

   There now came a sudden change of scene, from the
fields and fresh air of Warwickshire and neighbouring
counties, to the streets and smoke of London. The occa
sion for this change is shown by the following letter: --

                               27, Wilmington Square, Oct. 16th, 1845.
   Dear Sir, --You are to take charge of my office after this
day -- and for such you are to receive £4 os. od. per day (no
expense) or £24 per week until 30th of November next from

this day. After that date I will make fresh arrangements.
                          I am yours, William B. Prichard.

                                                  333

            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY      [1845-46

A statement of my new duties, somewhat more spe

cific than is here given, is contained in a letter to my

friend Lott, written on the 30th of the month.
   " I suppose you have heard it rumored in Wilmot Street

that another temporary change has come over the spirit of
my variable dream of existence. I have given up my field

work for a more lucrative post which has been made over

to me (in the same concern) ; the said post being that of
general superintendent of the parties employed in getting

up the plans of the several lines of railway of which Prichard

is engineer. At present I have the plans of four lines to look

after, and expect shortly to have those of another begin to

come in. As you may imagine, therefore, I am considerably

busy, and expect to work at a gradually increasing pressure

until the end of November."

Either of his own motion or at the instigation of those

with whom he had connected himself, Mr. Prichard had

undertaken, in addition to the scheme described above,

sundry others more or less wild, to which I should now

have had no clue but for the lithographed titles of them

on letters  dated from the   office, 27 Wilmington Square.
One was     the " Erewash     Valley Extension, Rochdale,

Blackburn, and East Lancashire Railway Company."
Another was entitled " Great Western, Southern, and

Eastern Counties, or Ipswich and Southampton Railway

Company." I remember too, though there is no headed

letter giving its name, that there was a line from Gran

tham to somewhere, to which Mr. Prichard was to be

"consulting" [!] engineer. The course of things dur
ing November will be sufficiently indicated by the fol
lowing letter written home on December 2nd: --

   " With great exertion we made our deposits on Sunday,

and heartily glad I was that the termination of our labours

                             334

<Et. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

week as the last. I was at work until 12 and 1 during the
early part of the week; on Wednesday I did not go home

until after 4 o'clock ; and from that time until Sunday night

I never went to bed at all. These arduous duties have, I am

happy to say, had very little injurious effect upon me. On

Monday I felt nothing unusual but a little languor, and to-day
I am just as usual.

   " I have, I believe, given great satisfaction by the efficient
manner in which I have managed the work deputed to me.

Sir John de Beauvoir, the Chairman of the Board of Direct

ors, has authorized Mr. Prichard to pay me £20 in addition

to my salary, in consideration of the value of the services I

have rendered ; and my name is further to be mentioned to

the Board. . . .
   " Towards the last, Prichard referred more and more to

me, and in almost all cases acted upon my judgment; and,

when he acted contrary to my advice as to the number of
plans to be deposited [i.e., schemes to be persevered with],

he was ultimately obliged, at the eleventh hour, to relinquish

his intention, and in doing so lost all his courage and put

everything into my hands.

  " You may judge of the complication of the affairs I have
Ihad to manage, when tell you that during the last week I
had about twenty assistants, and that I had to look after the

getting up of the plans for the following lines :--

London and Birmingham Extension        31 miles.
Deviation Line to ditto                13 ,,

Small branch of ditto                    1,,

Fenny Compton Branch                   9,,
Rugby Branch                           3,,
Warwick and Birmingham Canal Railway

[canal turned into railway]            20 ,,
Hampton Branch to ditto
Warwick and Worcester Railway            3,,
                                       28 ,,
Droitwich Branch to ditto
                                         8,,

Ipswich and Southampton Railway [only

partly carried out]                    36 ,,

                     Total             T52 ,,

                     335

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

  " I think probable that Prichard will ensure the continu

ance of my services by offering me advantageous terms, and

in such case I shall most likely remain with him to conduct

the Bill through Parliament."

   In the days of which I am writing, envelopes had not

come into general use, and the long-standing practice,

which then survived, of so folding the sheet containing a

letter that the address occupied a fold of its outer sur

face, had the advantage that the post-mark (when leg
ible) fixed the date. Hence it happens that in many
cases the outsides of letters show me when they were

written, though the insides do not. In this way I learn

that some ten days in London after deposit of plans hav

ing been occupied in business, I spent a few days at

home: returning to town on the 14th December.

   Poor Prichard had been intoxicated by his success in

floating schemes: neither recognizing the fact that

under the conditions which led to the mania anything

might be floated, nor recognizing the fact that success

in getting companies formed by no means implied suc

cess in carrying out their proposals, even to the extent
of completing and depositing plans. As he has been dead

these 40 years, and has left no descendants, I need not

hesitate in saying that his course was like that of the
fabled monkey, which, putting its hand into a jar of fruit,

grasped so large a quantity that it could not get its hand
out again. Had he been content with a single scheme he
might have succeeded, but he seized more than he could
go through with and defeated himself.

   At what date, and concerning what matter, difficulties

began to arise between him and the directors of the

336

.-Et. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

Railway, I do not know ; but early in December it be

came manifest that the board had lost confidence in him.

This is indirectly implied by the first paragraph of a

letter sent to me by the Secretary on the 13th.
   " I am desired by the Board to request, that you will attend

a deputation which will proceed to Daventry to attend a

meeting appointed to be held there on Thursday morning at

10 o'clock."

A letter to my father, written on the 17th, shows what
course I took.

  " I have just been with the Directors and am treated by

them with great respect. They wished me to attend this

meeting at Daventry as well as Prichard, but, as I explained
to them that I expected this would offend him, they agreed

only to require my presence in case of his absence."

Probably he was not absent, for I do not remember at

tending the meeting. Though there is no written evi

dence verifying  I it,my impression                       that the breach
                              I
which was evidently beginning gradually widened; and,
                                           it
in fact, could scarcely do otherwise, since his failure tois

achieve much that he had undertaken could not be con  is

cealed, and of course caused profound dissatisfaction.

What happened during the next few months memory

fails to tell me, and letters yield small means of supplying

the place of it. Of course some needful business was

being done, but the only trace of                       the mention to my

father of an expedition to Warwick and Stratford, taking

with me two draughtsmen, to examine, or make tracings

of, certain deposited plans.

During the high-pressure days of the autumn, such

small social life as had was suspended. An undated

letter to my father, which    infer was written about

Christmas, contains the paragraph: --

23 337

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

   "I dined yesterday evening with my friends the Potters,
and I am to dine there again to-morrow. They told me that

Mr. Heyworth had a very interesting account of our travellers
in the United States. My uncle did not seem to have so much

confidence in the American people as formerly. They have
seen Emerson and do not like him at all. I am not altogether
surprised at this information, for it seems to me that my

uncle has not a sufficiently liberal spirit to understand all the
kinds of great men."

   In explanation of this passage it is needful to say that,

in the preceding summer, there had been planned an ex

cursion to America, by my uncle and aunt and Mr. and
Mrs. Potter, taking with them one of Mr. Heyworth's
sons, James. Eventually it was decided that Mrs. Potter
was not strong enough to go; and the party dwindled
down to three. During the tour my uncle gave numer
ous lectures -- most of them, I suppose, temperance-lec

tures, but some of them anti-slavery lectures, which at
that time it required some courage to deliver. His low
ered estimate of the Americans may have been in part

due to the unfavourable reception these lectures met
with. That he should have been pleased with Emerson
is out of the question; for his intellect dealt with things

in the concrete almost exclusively, and even broad phil

osophical views, still more mystical views uttered in de

tached aphorisms (Emerson confessed that he could not
make his ideas stick together), were foreign to his mind.

   One other reference to social life is made. An evening
in the middle of January was spent at the house of Mr.
afterwards Dr.) Chapman, of whom more hereafter.
William Howitt and his wife, at that time well-known as
popular authors, are named as of the party; and he is
described as a little robust man with a big head, which

338

JEt. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

The only further thing I remember about him was his

remark that Keats would have been a greater poet than

Shelley had he lived -- a belief in which I suspect he was

right.

   Probably this remark was called forth by some laud

ation of Shelley uttered by me, for I still greatly admired

him, as was shown soon after by a letter to Lott, in which

I rejoiced that he was at length reading " Prometheus/

Unbound," my especial favourite. This same letter con

tains a passage worth quoting, as being characteristic of
my tastes, both then and afterwards: --

   " I have seen nothing more of Carlyle's Cromwell than is

to be gathered from the reviews. As you correctly surmise,
I have no intention of wading through it. If, after a

thorough examination of the subject, Carlyle tells us that

Cromwell was a sincere man, I reply that I am heartily glad

to hear and that am content to take his word for
        it it,                                       not
                                                     it
                    I
thinking worth while to investigate all the evidence which;

                                                               a
has led him to that conclusion.          find so many things to think
                                    I
                                      I

                                                  a
about in this world of ours, that cannot afford to spend

week in estimating the character of man who lived two

centuries ago."

Concerning my reading in those days will add one
                                    a

                                                 I
other paragraph, which in measure emphasizes the
foregoing, by implying interests of an entirely unlike

kind.                            criticism on the work entitled Kosmos in
    " have read                                      '
I
                                                             it
     is                                                                      '
          a
                       a

                              a
The Westminster Review, and am going to read when
                                    is

                                      I
there   new edition, which to be published in two or three

weeks. Judging by the quotations seems to me that Baronit
Humboldt has leaning to the development theory.' "
                                    '

This last remark implies that as far back as 1845, the

general idea of organic evolution, espoused five years

before, had become subject of interest to me.
                                 a

                                    339

AS AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

   Some of the foregoing passages are from letters writ

ten to my father in French. That repugnance to lan
guage-learning which, at Hinton, led to final abandon

ment of the attempts to teach me Latin and Greek, was

shown in the learning, or rather non-learning of this lan

guage also. I obtained at that time nothing more than

a very imperfect acquaintance with the first parts of the

grammar, joined with a few sentences from a phrase-

book. Memory unaided would have led me to say that
this very rudimentary knowledge was not added to until

the spring of 1844; but among my papers I find the bill
of a French teacher in Derby, showing that, when 21, I

took half-a-year's lessons, one per week; and then, dur

ing my stay in town while the Worcester and Wolver

hampton bill was before Parliament, I submitted myself

to the Hamiltonian system for a short time: having, as
the charge shows, a dozen lessons. My constitutional

idleness, joined with a special impatience of rote-learn

ing, prevented persistence; and, in default of regular

lessons, my teacher recommended easy French novels,
to be stumbled through somehow. His advice was fol
lowed, and my further acquaintance with French was
gained by a process of scrambling-- reading some sen

tences and skipping those I could not make out: caring

only to follow, as well as might be, the drift of the story.

At the date of the foregoing letters I had recommenced

these intermittent efforts: being prompted to do so by
the intention of going to Paris as soon as disengagement

permitted. A further measure was taken. There had

at that time been established in the Strand a French

reading-room, to which I occasionally betook myself to

look through the French papers; and at my request the

340

Mr. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

might arrange to speak French while he spoke English;
but nothing came of the suggestion, and my studies soon
ceased again. No grammatical knowledge of the lan

guage was ever acquired. As to the genders, I never

even tried to remember them.
   While a few of the letters utilized in this chapter are

written in French, a large number of them are written
in my father's shorthand. Correspondence had been car
ried on in it in 1843, during my sojourn in London, and
had, from that time onwards, been irregularly continued

when I was long away from home: the final cessation,

which presently occurred, resulting from my mother's
protest against a practice which debarred her from learn
ing news of me when my father was out. Of the letters
thus written during the latter months of 1845, two
contain passages concerning the shorthand itself. The
first is: --

   " I have been making some enquiries about the price of
glyphographing your shorthand and find that it would cost

fabout 1 per page. I think it will be best to adopt lithography

done neatly."

And then, in a subsequent letter, there is a proposal

which I had forgotten.
  " I am getting very anxious that you should get your

shorthand published, and if you will agree not to flinch in
transacting the business part of the matter, I shall be happy

to defray the expenses myself."

But nothing came of this offer. At that time, as through

out subsequent years, my father's tendency to postpone
decisions of importance prevented anything from being
done.

   One other incident dating back to this period must be
added. My interest in phrenology still continued; and

                                                         341

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

faction with the ordinary mode of collecting data. Ex

aminations of heads carried on merely by simple inspec
tion and tactual exploration seemed to me extremely
unsatisfactory. The outcome of my dissatisfaction was
the devising of a method for obtaining, by graphic delin
eations, mechanically made, exact measurements, in
stead of the inexact ones obtained through the unaided

senses. A description and drawings of the appliance I

devised to this end will be found in Appendix H.

  I return now to business matters. The first fact to be

named is that a letter posted on March 22nd, 1846,

says: -- "We expect to go before Committee on Stand

ing Orders this week with the London and Birmingham
Extension. With the Warwick and Worcester we shall
probably have another week's waiting."

   Considering that success or failure in obtaining our
Act was likely to determine the course of my life for

some time, it is strange that the process of examination
before Standing Orders Committee has left no recollec
tions. The outcome, however, is clear. The plans did

not pass the required tests, and no further stage could

be entered upon. I knew that this result was tolerably

certain, and wrote home to that effect. The over-pres
sure on all classes concerned in preparing for Parliament
the multitudinous schemes brought out during the
mania, unavoidably entailed imperfections unusual in
numbers and degrees. Apart from any other cause,
breakdown of the lithographers, whose various estab
lishments were glutted with work which could not be
properly executed, sufficed to entail a fatal quantity of
defects. But, explanations aside, here was the simple
fact -- the project, or rather projects, collapsed.

                                                  342

JEt. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

    This ending of the engineering campaign gave the

signal for the opening of a legal campaign, in which I

was to a considerable extent involved -- not, indeed, in

any case as principal, but in sundry cases as witness.

During the succeeding four years at least, Mr. Prichard
carried on suits against one or other company; and,
now at Lewes, now at Westminster, and now in the
chambers of an arbitrator (Mr. Keating, afterwards

judge) I gave evidence on his behalf: subpoenas pur

suing me hither and thither, often to my annoyance and

loss. What the final outcome was I do not remember
distinctly ; but I infer that there must have been a deci

sion which gave to Mr. Prichard and his staff, or some
of them, a portion if not the whole of their claims: my
inference being drawn from the fact that the sum of
some £80, due to me for services as witness before
Standing Orders Committee, was, after a further delay
of some years, paid under the Winding-up Act.

   With this failure of Mr. Prichard's schemes ended my
career as a civil engineer. Save during an excursion into
Cornwall early in 1847, along with sundry old engineer
ing friends of Birmingham and Gloucester days, who
had been commissioned to take " check-levels," in prep

aration for opposing the Central Cornish Railway, I had

no more connexion either with railway projects or with
the execution of projects which had been authorized.

Nor did I thereafter enter into any other branch of engi

neering work.

  Should I have made a good engineer had I continued

in the profession? The answer is doubtful: in some

respects Yes, in other respects No. In so far as inven

                                                  343

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1845-46

have succeeded; though it seems not improbable that
inadequate regard for precedent might have entailed
compromising mistakes. Much patience is required to

learn all that has been done in each field of engineering;

and, lacking such patience, I might have come to grief

from neglecting the guidance of registered experience.
Then, too, the aversion to mere mechanical humdrum
work, of which civil engineering, in common with most

occupations, involves a good deal, would have stood in
the way of advancement. Financial details, altogether
uninteresting to me, would most likely have received in

sufficient attention. An incident which occurred when

I was on the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway, act

ing as engineering-secretary to Capt. Moorsom, sug
gests this belief. A Russian engineer had been sent
over officially to examine our railways, and was being
taken round the country by Mr. Vignolles, an engineer
of repute in those days. Capt. Moorsom sent me as
cicerone. One of Mr. Vignolles' questions concerned
the amount per cubic yard which our " ballast " of burnt

clay cost. I was unable to tell him, and there resulted an

expression of contempt on his face: such knowledge

being reasonably considered by him as part of an en

gineer's mental equipment. Another deficiency I recog

nize as one which might have prevented any great suc

cess -- my lack of tact in dealing with men, especially
superiors. In most occupations, and especially engineer

ing, advancement depends rather on pleasing those in
authority than on intrinsic fitness. The more capable

man who is disagreeable has a much smaller chance

than the less capable man who makes himself pleasant.
Neither in my engineering days nor at any other time,

344

JEt. 25-26] ANOTHER PARLIAMENTARY SURVEY

with those above me. Rather I have ever been apt, by

criticisms and outspoken differences of opinion, to give

offence; and I doubt not that this trait would have stood

in my way.

   But whether I should or should not have made a good

engineer was never to be decided. Fate ordered that the
experiment should not be tried.

                                                   345

CHAPTER XIX.

INVENTIONS.

1846--47. Mt. 26 --27.

fitA commencement to this chapter necessitates

recurrence to an incident belonging, in order of time,

"Ito the last chapter. In a letter dated Leamington, 13th
October, 1845, there is a sentence which runs: --             am

anxious to accumulate as much as I can for the purpose

of putting myself in a position to take out a patent."

   The proposed patent concerned a scheme of quasi-
aerial locomotion : not a " flying machine " properly

so called, but something uniting terrestrial traction with

aerial suspension. There had, during some previous

months, been much public attention given to a flying

machine proposed by a Mr. Henson or Hanson,-- I think

that was the name. Representations of it were common

in shop windows ; and even pocket-handkerchiefs were

stamped with them. The essential idea was that of an

inclined plane propelled through the air by a motor
engine carried on its back--an idea which has recently

been revived by the celebrated American inventor,

Edison ; whose proposed use of  it,
                                                         is,

                                                  iIf
                                however,                      re

member rightly, limited to the carrying of explosive

missiles over an opponent army and dropping them into

346

-St. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

the theory ; but against the application of it there is

much to be said.

   To me it then seemed, as it seems still, that no such
appliance (supposing it otherwise successful) could carry
the motor engine and motor power required for a long
flight. Even liquid carbonic acid, losing much of its
energy by self-refrigeration in becoming gaseous, must
fail quickly unless supplied with heat. Adopting the
general idea of an inclined plane moving at a high
velocity, and supported by the upward pressure of the
air reflected from its under surface, my scheme, sug
gested by the action of a kite when drawn through still
air by a boy running, was to attach the ends of the in
clined plane, by iron-wire cords, to an endless wire-rope
passing over " sheaves," as they are called, such as were
then used on various lines of railway and are still used
on some tramways. Further, my proposal was that, in
stead of a single inclined plane, which inevitably would
oscillate violently from side to side, there should be two

inclined planes meeting in the middle, as do the lateral
faces of a properly made kite. Theoretically, such a
structure might be drawn through the air at a velocity
such that the upward pressure would support and sup
port also the weight of seated passengers on its upper

surface; and the questions were-- whether, by stationary

engines moving the endless rope, such velocity could be
given, and whether fit arrangements for starting and
alighting could be devised. During the spring of 1846
spent some thought on this mode of locomotion, and in

terested in my new friend Mr. Potter. A letter to my

mother, dated from Lloyd Street, Lloyd Square (which
had continued to be my address since the migration to
town in October, 1845). contains these paragraphs: --

                                                   347
             it
                             2

                                                                        it,

                                                                           I

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

  " On Saturday last I dined at Mr. Potter's in company

with two M.P.'s -- Bright and Brotherton. Cobden was to

have been there but could not come.*

   " Since then I have, at Mr. Potter's particular request,

explained to him my system of locomotion, with which he
was both astounded and pleased. He seemed to feel greatly
interested, and immediately entered upon the question of
making the experiment and what it would cost, and quite
gave me the impression that he would be ready to assist."

   In pursuance of a promise then made to consider the

matter in detail and let him know the result, I, in the

course of the summer, made some calculations which
altogether dissipated my hopes. At each start from a
station, the machine would have to be otherwise sup
ported until the velocity given to it had become great

enough to yield adequate aerial support; and I came to

the conclusion that the strength, and therefore the weight,
of the wire-rope required to give it the needful velocity
within any reasonable space, would be impracticably
great, and that the cost of giving it this velocity every
time would be prohibitory. Referring to this calculation,

Mr. Potter, in a letter of August 18, wrote: --
  " I really was concerned to hear of the untoward conclusion

of your hopes, and I confess I agree with you that the

difficulty you have stated does seem insurmountable, and is
just of that practical kind that would in the first instance

escape the calculations of a very stern theorist, as indeed I

have always looked upon you."

   It did not occur to me that there might be used an
endless rope constantly in motion, and admitting of being
clutched by the apparatus every time of starting ; but any
one may see that this, too, would be impracticable for

   * Mr. Potter's father had been Member for Wigan in the first reformed
Parliament, and had been intimate with the leading Radicals.

348

Mi. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

various reasons, and that there are sundry insurmount
able obstacles in the way of the plan.

   Until there became manifest to me the fatal difficulty

above named, I was seriously taking measures to carry

out the scheme. Correspondence shows that, after the

rejection of our bills by the Standing Orders Committee

about the middle of May, and after failing to get a settle
ment of my claims for services before the Committee,
and after spending the latter part of May with my uncle
at Hinton, and after abandoning the idea of a trip to

Paris for a few weeks, I occupied myself to some extent

in preparations for obtaining a patent-- preparations,

however, which were, both in June and the early part of
July, several times interrupted by subpoenas demanding
my attendance as a witness on behalf of Mr. Prichard in

his suits against the companies.

   During the two months in which these miscellaneous

occupations constituted my business, there was some

thing else going on, not to be called business, but yet more

important in its ultimate issue than business commonly

so called. I began to make myself better fitted for
writing the book I contemplated. At what time was

formed the resolution to set forth my views on political

ethics, is uncertain ; but during those early months of

1846, I commenced a course of reading in furtherance of

my project.

   What the course of reading was there is no clear evi

dence. I obtained from Mudie's Library, which, as be

fore said, was then a thriving infant in Southampton
Row, books which bore in one way or other on my set
purpose -- books, however, which did not bear upon it

            349

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

what had been written upon either ethics or politics.
Partly this was due to my impatience of reading in gen
eral (excluding, of course, light reading), which has

always made the getting through a grave book a diffi

culty ; and then upon this general difficulty there

arose a more special difficulty --the inability to continue
reading a book from the fundamental ideas of which I
dissented : a trait exemplified in a preceding chapter.
Hence it happened that in this case, systematic works of
a political or ethical kind, written from points of view
quite unlike my own, were either not consulted at all
(their reputed doctrines sufficing to warn me off), or else
they were glanced at and thereafter disregarded. The
books I did read were those which promised to furnish

illustrative materials. For though by some I am char

acterized as an a priori thinker, it will be manifest to any
one who does not set out with an a priori conception of
me, that my beliefs, when not suggested a posteriori, are
habitually verified a posteriori. My first book, Social

IStatics, shows this in common with my later books.

have sometimes been half-amused, half-irritated, by one
who speaks of me as typically deductive, and whose own

conclusions, nevertheless, are not supported by facts
anything like so numerous as those brought in sup
port of mine. But we meet with men who are such
fanatical adherents of the inductive method, that im

mediately an induction, otherwise well established, is
shown to admit of deductive establishment, they lose

faith in it !

   Explanations and reasons apart, however, the fact here

to be noted is that in the early summer of 1846, I began

to prepare for my first book: having, at that time, no
idea of making authorship my occupation.

                                                  350

JRt. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

   To the mention of these preparations for my first book,

should be added something about the motives which
prompted it. Further reflection had made me dissatisfied

with the letters on The Proper Sphere of Government --

dissatisfied, not so much with the conclusions set forth,

as with the foundations on which they stood. The

analytical tendency has begun to show itself. What

was the common principle involved in these conclu

sions? Whence was derived their ultimate justification?
Answers to these questions had become clear to me ;

and it was the desire to publish them that moved me

to write.

   Another account of its origin was given by my father

to one who, many years later, was inquiring about it--
one unknown to me in the days of which I speak, but
whose name will appear frequently in the narrative of my
later life. My father admired greatly an ethical work

called Essays on the Principles of Morality by Jonathan
Dymond, a Quaker-- a work having much merit, but
setting out with the assumption, held in common by
Quakers and most other Christians, that the declared will
of God is the only possible standards of morals. As im

plied in a passage describing discussions at the age of 24,

I already felt, in a vague way, that there must be a basis

for morals in the nature of things --in the relations be

tween the individual and the surrounding world, and in

the social relations of men to one another. Hence I had,

it seems, spoken of Dymond's Essays disparagingly. Ac

cording to the account of the friend above referred to, I
went so far as to say that I could write a better book on

the subject myself; and my father, piqued by this dis
respectful treatment of a book he thought so highly of,

             351

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY           [1846-47

statement, the writing of Social Statics resulted from my

responsive determination to make the attempt.

  I have no recollection of all this ; but it is not improb
able that I expressed myself in the way alleged, and that

my father may have uttered the challenge. Indeed, it

seems certain that some such incident occurred. But that

it originated Social Statics I do not think. The dissatis
faction above described was, I believe, the prompting

motive; though it is possible that my father's sarcasm

served as an additional spur.

I. The greater part of August was passed at Derby, and
    it,
it was there I made the calculation which led to the
         a
abandonment of my rather wild scheme -- though one
                   ;perhaps less wild than schemes for aerial locomotion in
general. But before the end of the month there occurred

to me the idea of something which, as results proved,
came within the region of practicability.

   This was a little apparatus I called a " binding-pin."

Its purpose was that of fixing together the sheets of

musical pieces which occupy several pages, and also the

sheets of weekly periodicals -- the Athenaum, Spectator,

and others similarly shaped. The music or journal being
opened out in the middle, these binding-pins, being
thrust on to one at the top of the fold and another at

the bottom, clipped all the leaves and kept them securely
in their positions and, when afterwards taken off to be
again used for like purpose, they left the paper unin

jured. A drawing and description will be found in

Appendix
   Not very long before, there had been passed an Act

intended more especially to give security for Designs, but

                      352

..Et. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

implied, served to cover small appliances the uses of

which depended entirely on their shapes. I decided to

take advantage of this system of registration, and, going
to London forthwith, went through the requisite legal
forms on the 2nd September. Correspondence during the
succeeding two months shows how numerous were the
difficulties to be surmounted, and how complicated the

transactions to be gone through, before even a very
simple invention could be brought to bear. There was
first the discovery of some mode in which the binding-pin
might be cheaply manufactured ; and only after trying

sundry pin-makers and hook-and-eye makers, did I suc
ceed in finding one who, by modifying a hook-and-eye
machine, succeeded in producing it with sufficent facility :

an achievement, by the way, which implied much greater

ingenuity than did the appliance itself. Simultaneously,
there had to be carried on negotiations, with wholesale
stationers or kindred traders who should, one or other of
them, undertake the supplying of retail stationers and
music-sellers. There is mention of three competitors for
the purchase of the invention. Then, after the lapse of
two months and a subsequent absence from London, there
comes the account of an agreement with the firm of

Ackermann & Co. --not the existing firm, but one which

at that time occupied the building now occupied by
Rimmel the perfumer. Satisfactory arrangements for
manufacture and sale having been reached, sundry
further preliminaries required attention. The pins must

be presented to the public in an attractive form. I had

to make an ornamental design for a card on which they

might be mounted ; and, having done this, to get the en
graving and printing of it in colours undertaken. Still
another obstacle had to be overcome. Putting the pins

                  24 353

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-.C

on the cards by the unaided hand would have been

tedious and costly ; and I had to devise a little apparatus
which rendered the fixing of them an easy process --an

apparatus which, like the machine for making the pins,

implied much more thought than did the pin itself.

   All complications, mechanical, legal, and commercial,

having been got through, the appliance was brought out

in the name of Ackermann & Co. (for I did not like to

give it my own name), and met with considerable ap
proval. Had the sales continued to be anything like what

they were at first, they would have yielded me a revenue
of some £70 a year; but after the first year they fell off

and presently ceased. I supposed the fault to be with

Mr. Ackermann who was a bad man of business, and

who, failing not long afterwards, shot himself ; but infor
mation gained in recent years has led me to ascribe the

result to that insane desire for novelties which, in all

save articles almost indispensable, leads to the neglect of
a known thing, however satisfactory, and a demand for

the last new thing: whether better or not than a thing
already in use being a matter of indifference.

   Some twenty years ago, samples in a stationer's win

dow showed me that someone had attempted to revive the
use of this appliance ; but the samples were ill made, and

I do not wonder that nothing came of the attempt.

   Had it not been for memoranda found among my
papers, no mention would have been made of a certain
highly-speculative enterprise into which my friend Jack

son and I at one time thought of entering -- thought only

in a half-serious way, however. That it originated about
the period here dealt with there is no proof. My con

354

Ex. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

 results from failure to find any other in which it could

 have occurred.

    We often discussed art-matters: he as being an ama

teur artist, and I as being interested in art. We went to

picture-exhibitions together, and our judgments were
generally in accord. From criticisms on pictures we

 sometimes passed to criticisms on decorations ; and in
our condemnations of many of these we were, in like
manner, usually at one. Might it not be a possible thing
to set up a systematic manufacture of designs for textile
fabrics, printed or woven, as well as for paper-hangings
and the like? Could there not be a methodic use of

components of designs, so that relatively few ideas
should, by modes of combination, be made to issue in
multitudinous products? And could not this be so done

that draughtsmen, under superintendence, might produce
them with facility : the system serving, as it were, not as

a physical kaleidoscope but as a mental kaleidoscope.

Some notions were, I see, set down, giving a partially-
concrete form to the plan. But, as I have said, the specu

lation was only half-serious, and nothing came of it.

  I mention it here chiefly for the purpose of introducing

an accompanying thought respecting the nomenclature of
colours. The carrying out of such a scheme would be
facilitated by some mode of specifying varieties of tints
with definiteness ; and my notion was that this might be

done by naming them in a manner analogous to that in
which the points of the compass are named. The sub
divisions coming in regular order when " boxing the

compass," as it is called, run thus: --North, North by

East, North-North-East, North-East by North, North-
East ; North-East by East, East-North-East, East by

            355

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

would result a series standing thus :-- Red, Red by blue,
Red-red-blue, Red-blue by red, Red-blue (purple) ; Red-
blue by blue, Blue-red-blue, Blue by red, Blue. And in
like manner would be distinguished the intermediate
colours between Blue and Yellow and those between Yel
low and Red. Twenty-four gradations of colour in the

whole circle, would thus have names ; as is shown by a

diagram I have preserved. Where greater nicety was de

sirable, the sailor's method of specifying a half-point
might be utilized -- as Red-red-blue, half-blue; signifying
the intermediate tint between red-red-blue and red-blue
by red. Of course these names would be names of pure
colours only -- the primaries and their mixtures with one

another; but the method might be expanded by the use

of numbers to each: 1, 2, 3, signifying proportions of

added neutral tint, subduing the colour, so as to produce
gradations of impurity.

   Some such nomenclature would, I think, be of much

service. At present, by shopmen and ladies, the names of
colours are used in a chaotic manner -- violet, for instance,

being spoken of by them as purple, and other names
being grossly misapplied. As matters stand there is
really no mode of making known in words, with anything

like exactness, a colour required ; and hence many im

pediments to transactions and many errors. In general

life, too, people labour under an inability to convey true
colour-conceptions of things they are describing. The

system indicated would enable them to do this, were they,
in the course of education, practised in the distinguishing

and naming of colours. If, by drawing, there should be

discipline of the eye in matters of form, so there should be
an accompanying discipline of the eye in matters of

colour.

356

Mi. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

   There is mention, in the last section but one, of an

absence from London which occurred before my arrange
ments for bringing-out the binding-pin were effected.
This absence was caused by a visit into the West of

England. Writing to my father on 30th October I

said :--

   " The letter you forwarded was from Mr. Potter, and con

tained a very kind invitation to go and spend a week or ten

days with them in Herefordshire. I enclose it."

   Upper Hamilton Terrace, where their house in London

was situated, had proved insalubrious ; and Mrs. Potter,

who was showing signs of delicacy, had been recom

mended to spend the winter in a drier climate. The place
fixed upon was Gayton Hall, in the valley of the Wye, not

far from Ross, amid scenery sufficiently picturesque.

Here, as the Americans say, I had a good time. The place

was 14 miles from Gloucester, which had occasionally to

be visited ; and this fact had, I fancy, been Mr. Potter's

excuse for setting up a tandem. We had sundry not-

altogether-safe rides in it. Then there was a ride to the

ruins of Goodrich Castle, for which, being little used to

riding, I paid the ordinary penalty next day. Once, too,
I joined Mr. Potter in a ramble with our guns about an

adjacent tract, the shooting over which went with the
Hall, but which, from lack of a keeper, yielded no birds.

And I remember, also, accompanying my friends to a

dinner with Mr. Herbert, the County-Court Judge at

Ross, with whom, nearly a generation after, there oc

curred a mutual recognition as we were playing a game

of billiards together in London. Chiefly, however, I

recall the great amount of discussion carried on indoors

during my stay. Mrs. Potter was scarcely less argu

            357

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

bates were carried on so long that Mr. Potter, often
playing chiefly the role of listener, gave up in despair and
went to bed ; leaving us to continue our unsettleable con

troversies.

   This visit, which ended in the middle of November, I

thus particularize because it was the first of a series too
numerous to be recorded, which continued throughout the
subsequent forty years.

Why I went to Derby from Gayton I do not under

stand ; for pending business-arrangements appear to have

demanded my presence in London. The mention of my

return to Derby serves, however, to introduce a passage

of some significance, contained in a letter from my father

to my uncle, dated December 16, after I had again been

carried off to London to give evidence for Prichard.   It
runs as follows :--
                                                       as
  " I showed Herbert that I was a good deal concerned

to the notions he appears to be deriving from the reading of

Emerson ; but he said very little, and conducted himself in a

very much less dogmatical way than on some former occa

sions. I hope that when the pride of his intellect is a little

more subdued, he will be more likely to attach importance

to the usual evidences given in support of our faith. How

do you bear such attacks? They affect my spirits exceed

ingly. Mr. Mason [a dissenting minister] and he had a
lengthy argument one day lately, in which I confess Herbert
displayed much more coolness than I have previously given

him credit for, considering the mortifying manner that Mr.

Mason has."

On this passage the only remark it seems needful to

make concerns the supposed influence of Emerson. This

my father over-estimated. My rationalistic convictions

             358

,Et. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

now ) had been slowly and insensibly growing for years :
being, as already intimated, caused by perception of the
radical incongruity between the Bible and the order of
Nature. Such writings as those of Emerson and Carlyle
served simply to present to me my own convictions under

other aspects.

   At my old quarters, 2 Lloyd Street, Lloyd Square, I
spent the last few weeks of the year 1846 and the spring
of the next. A string of extracts from letters will show
what I was about. The first of them, however, is of
earlier date -- 18th September; but I have reserved it for

use here because it conveniently introduces the quota

tions from subsequent letters.
   " I have ordered you some of the gutta-percha, which they

promised to send down in a week -- not having any ready.

I saw a number of new applications of it at the office--it is

certainly a most extraordinary material. It appears that the
Company are intending to work the patents by granting
licences, and state that in a few weeks they will have speci

mens of all its applications ready. Before deciding about
the shoe affair I shall wait and see these.*

   * At that time gutta-percha was a recently introduced material from
which much was hoped. This reference to it suggests an extreme in
stance of perversity in the uses of names ; implying something almost
like ingenuity in going wrong. When first imported, gutta-percha,
though like india-rubber the inspissated juice of a tree, was seen to be
conspicuously different in sundry ways. Its colour is a light chocolate ;
it does not yield to slight pressures ; it is inelastic ; it is softened by mod
erate heat, and can then be rolled into sheets -- all traits in which it dif
fers from india-rubber. The only manifest point of community between
the two is that both are soluble in coal-naphtha. But, strange to say,
easily discriminated as they are, they have become so confused in the
public mind that their names have partially changed places. Now that
the uses of gutta-percha are inconspicuous, its name has in numerous
cases usurped the place of the name india-rubber : the majority of people
refer to various india-rubber articles as made of gutta-percha!

                                                   359

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY              [1846-47

  " I find I am a day after the fair in my invention for raising
water. It has just been patented --the specification being
enrolled as lately as the nth ultimo. Clarke, Freeman, and

Varley are the patentees, and my plan is included amongst a

variety of others.
   " The Potters are not yet returned from Liverpool. Jack

son is out of town and I am dreadfully off for want of society.
One week since I have been here, I did not speak to a friend

from Monday to the Sunday following.
   " There is nothing whatever stirring in the engineering

Iworld, and see no cause to alter my determination to pro

ceed with a patent. The only question is which."

To my father, late in December, I wrote :--

   " The planing affair looks well. . . . Jackson has finally
joined me and we are now busy with a model.

   " The current number of the Noncon. contains an article
of mine -- ' Justice before Generosity.' Miall being away,
they got me to write for them."

Along with the excursion into political literature here

named, should be named an excursion into scientific

literature,  which was  made   in January  "oTrhFeebFrouramry,o1f 84th7e.
This took    the shape  of an   essay on

Earth, &c.," the purpose of which was to show that how

ever good may be the evidence of the earth's original

fluidity, the evidence commonly drawn from its oblate
form is not good. This essay was published in The Phil

osophical Magazine for March, 1847, and will be found

in Appendix J.
   A letter of February 21st, first speaking of the before-

mentioned excursion into Cornwall and " afterwards a
week of the old work at Westminster " (life in Commit
tee-rooms and their lobbies), goes on to speak of the

already-made small model of the planing engine ; and on
March 10 comes the information --

                               360

JEt. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

   " We are about to proceed at once with the patent for the

planing engine. Our friend Bishopp--a good and unbiased

judge [he had been engineer of locomotives on the B. and G.
Railway], thinks the performance of the model very favour

able ; and we do not mean to run the risks of further delay.

   " We intend if possible getting a full-sized engine made

before the specification is entered."

Then on nth April, after naming a further stage, I

named also a totally different matter of much more in

terest as judged by ultimate issues.
   " The patent has been opposed but no harm has resulted,

as it appeared that there was no interference. Another fort

night will now I believe complete the matter.

                     ****

   " I have now collected together a large mass of matter for

my moral philosophy and it is beginning to ferment violently.

I shall commence writing as soon as I get down to you.
Among other aids to good style I have been compiling a

kind of dictionary of memoranda for illustrations, figures,

and similes [of which I never made the slightest use]."
   And now came interruptions, pleasant and unpleasant,

as shown by some lines from my uncle to my father on
April 20.

    " Herbert had been with us from Thursday last till yester
day (Monday), when a messenger came from London to take

him back to give evidence on a trial respecting Mr. Prichard.
We were much disappointed at having so soon to part with
him, but we are to have him again at Midsummer to finish

his visit."

   The patent having been taken out and the needful

drawings made, negociations were entered into for the
making of a complete machine at Derby. This caused me

to go home in the middle of May.
    One of the incidents which shortly followed was a

             361

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

temporary return to political activity. Sundry fore

going passages have shown that I had seen a good deal

of Mr. Lawrence Heyworth, and that our views were in

large measure congruous. A bye-election was about to

take place at Derby; and, thinking that Mr. Heyworth

would be a good representative, I talked the matter over

with sundry leading Liberals in the town, and busied

myself in obtaining signatures to a requisition to him.

Though the proposal met wth considerable approval,
nothing at that time came of it. But when, not long
afterwards, a general election took place, this action of
mine, futile when taken, had its effect. His name and

opinions had been made known in the town ; and the result
was that certain local chiefs of the Liberal party requested

me to telegraph to him, to inquire whether he would re

ceive a deputation. I did so. The deputation went; he

became a candidate ; was elected ; and thereafter sat for

a number of years as one of the Members for Derby.
    This was not the only direction in which my energies

were partially diverted from immediate business. A letter
of July 1 ith to my father, who was away for his vacation,
indicated the commencement of my intended book.

   " I am getting on pretty well with my writing and find
the being alone advantageous in making me apply. I do not

yet, however, make rapid progress, being very anxious to
make a good start in respect of style."

But of course my chief energies were daily devoted to
getting made a full-sized planing engine of the proposed
kind. Various difficulties were met with, and various

difficulties were overcome, and various delays had to be
patiently borne. Here let me attempt to convey some
idea of this proposed apparatus. Place an ordinary din

362

JEr. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

made in the table large enough to let the plate sink

through, but that it is stopped before its edge quite dis

appears below the table's surface. Suppose, now, that this

earthenware plate is replaced by a steel plate, which has

a cutting edge instead of a round edge, and which is
                                            "          "
almost flat, or, in other words,  somewhat     dished      ;  but

which, similarly, has its sharp edge very slightly project

ing above the level of the table. Now further suppose

that such a steel plate, much larger than a dinner-plate, is

fixed on a vertical axle carried above and below the table,

and that power applied to this axle, makes the steel plate

revolve at a considerable velocity. Then it is manifest

that when a plank, thrust against the plate on one side of

the axle, meets the cutting edge, there will be taken off
a shaving, which will descend through the narrow space

left between the edge of the plate and the surface of the

table. And obviously a plank thus thrust against a rotat

ing edge will have a shaving taken off more easily than

were it thrust against a stationary edge.

   All through July and August the undertaking was

hopefully prosecuted, and then it was brought to an end

in an utterly unexpected manner. My friend Jackson, as

I have intimated, had joined me in carrying out the inven

tion, and had contributed his share to defray the cost of

the patent -- about £150 I think the cost was. But now a

change of career on his part broke up our arrangement.

To my great dismay, about the end of August I got a

letter from him saying that he had been offered some civil

engineering post in India and that he had accepted it.

There went from me a letter of expostulation, and from

him there came a reply expressing regret. But there was
no help for it--the step had been taken.

   Thus ended the enterprise ; for I did not feel able to

             363

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

prosecute it by myself. Neither means nor energy would
have sufficed. Very possibly, however, this seeming catas
trophe was a blessing in disguise. Supposing that all
the mechanical difficulties had been overcome, as they
might have been, there were still the business difficulties;
and a wider experience of men and affairs leads me to
suspect that these might have proved insurmountable.

   An omitted incident must here be named. Just before

the change which proved fatal to my scheme, came my

first acquaintance with mountain scenery. An excursion
to Scotland had been planned by a party of four--my
friend Lott, one who presently became his brother-in-
law, Lingard, another friend of ours named Fuller, and
myself. Some time about the beginning of August we
left Derby ; and our absence lasted a fortnight. Already in

1847, tourist facilities had been developed to a consid
erable extent throughout the West. There were steam
ers on Loch Lomond and Loch Katrine ; a coach from
Inverarnon over the Black Mount through Glencoe to
Ballachulish ; a line of steamers running backwards and

forwards between Inverness and Oban ; and another line
through the Crinan Canal to Ardrishaig and Glasgow.
It is needless to say much about our doings. There still

remains a memory of the delight with which I gazed on

the mountains at the head of Loch Lomond as we ap
proached them by steamer, and the awe with which, later
in the day, some of the more rugged and precipitous
masses we drove past inspired me. The only adventure
worthy of note was the ascent of Ben Nevis ; and this,
chiefly because of an accompanying physiological experi
ence, which, joined with one received three years previ

ously, was instructive.

                                                  364

/Et. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

   Our ascent was made from Fort William. As we were

approaching the summit our guide pointed out a train
of ponies and pedestrians coming from Bannavie, and

told us that the party consisted of Prince Waldemar

and his attendants. After we had been at the top some

time, enjoying the views now on this side and now on that,
as the clouds lifted to disclose them, these foreign visitors

arrived on the top also. Prince Waldemar, a handsome,

vigorous-looking, and pleasant man, had in his suite two

whom I remember -- a Count Oriola, and, oddly enough, a

Baron Munchausen : so at least we understood the names.

Having unpacked their luncheon, they hospitably invited
us to partake. We had already eaten our sandwiches, but
were not unwilling to add some glasses of wine to the
whisky we had imbibed in the course of our ascent -- a

bottle among five, the guide and ourselves.
   The upper part of Ben Nevis consists of a long slope

of loose rocks, large and small, standing at the somewhat
precipitous angle which a debris of such masses naturally

assumes. When we commenced going down, I found

myself possessed of a quite unusual amount of agility;
being able to leap from rock to rock with rapidity, ease,

and safety ; so that I quite astonished myself. There was

evidently an exaltation of the perceptive and motor

powers. On thinking over the matter afterwards, I was

reminded of a parallelism between this experience and
one above referred to. This had occurred when making

the trial-section named in the last chapter. All day I had

been hard at work taking levels between Warwick and
Alcester, and was anxious to reach a certain " bench
mark " before it became too dark to see. Just when

beginning to fear I should not succeed, we passed across

             365

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

ably) close to a public-house. Being very thirsty I went
into it for a glass of ale, and, finding my thirst not slaked,
took a second. Shortly after resuming my levelling I
was struck with the remarkable expertness of my opera
tions. One or two movements of the level-legs brought
the bubble almost right, and a touch or two of the
set-screws made the adjustment perfect, as though by

magic.

    Here, then, were two cases which, unlike in other re

spects, were alike in the respect that a considerable amount
of alcohol had been taken along with, or after, an extreme
amount of exercise. Now alcohol has two physiological
effects. Primarily it stimulates the nervous system, and,
in that way, exalts the functions at large; but, second
arily, it diminishes the rate of exchange of gases in the
lungs, and, by so doing, tends to diminish the functional

activity. Rather deficient as I am in development of the

respiratory system, and consequently having a rate of ex
change of gases somewhat lower than it should be, the
ordinary effect of alcohol is sedative only: the beneficial
effect on the nervous system is out-balanced by the adverse
effect upon the respiratory system. But in those two
cases, long-continued exertion having caused unusually
great action of the lungs, the exaltation produced by stim
ulation of the brain was not cancelled by the diminished
oxygenation of the blood. The oxygenation had been so
much in excess, that deduction from it did not appreciably

diminish the vital activities.

   After recognizing the varying proportions of these

conflicting actions, we understand why in one person
alcohol exhilarates and in another enervates ; and why in
those of the first class a certain amount produces exhilara
tion and a further amount enervation.

                                                  366

JEt. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

   The second week in September found me in London
again. The purposes of my journey were to see Jackson
before he went to India, and then, while attending to

some pending matters of business, to look around.

   Steps were taken to increase the sale of the binding-
pins. It appears, too, that sundry further schemes occu

pied my attention --one an improvement in the type-

making machine named some chapters back, and others
which also remained mere speculations. While part of

my time was spent in negociations concerning inventions,
another part was spent at the British Museum library, in

search of materials for my book. It appears, too, that the

composition of the book was continued ; for, after a time,
there is mention of some thirty pages of MS. of the Intro
duction being sent to my father, with a view to criticism
by him. Meanwhile my daily life was not to my liking, as
witness the following paragraph written to Lott, dated

42, Holford Square, Pentonville, nth October: --

   " I am quite alone --have not spoken to a friend for this
week past-- and am more moped than ever; so that you can
hardly expect that I have any news to tell you. Engineering
is of course desperately bad ; and, were it not that the binding-

pin answers very well, I should be in a quandary. I shall

be very glad to see you here whenever you can get away."

   A little later came a brief episode. My uncle Thomas

had long been wishing to free himself from the ties of his
pastorship at Hinton, that he might have a larger sphere
of usefulness. Frequently, if not generally, he was away
from home during the week, lecturing or attending meet
ings (chiefly, but not wholly, in furtherance of the tem
perance movement), at one or other place, often remote;

and habitually returned on Saturday night that he might

             367

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1846-47

to resign his incumbency was suddenly accentuated by a
burglary at the parsonage. That after the many good
things he had done for the people of Hinton during his
twenty years of residence, such an event should have

happened, disgusted him greatly -- perhaps somewhat un
reasonably ; for there was no proof that the robbers
belonged to his parish. When he announced his decision
to leave there came a memorial from all the leading pa
rishioners urging him to remain ; but, while he recognized
the force of their address, it did not alter his mind. This
crisis took me to Hinton. From my uncle to my father
on the 25th went the information :--" Herbert is here and
is very well. I hope he will stay till my departure, as he
will be very useful in giving advice."

   With my return to London soon after, and my return
to Derby not long after that, came to an end the various
schemes which had occupied me during the preceding
year and a half-- time, and energy, and money, during
that period having been simply thrown away. What
came to me in the shape of proceeds from the binding-
pin, just about served to recoup me for my share of the
cost of the planing-machine patent ; and the expenses of
living and travelling which had meanwhile been incurred,
were of course so much loss. My experience is, I suspect,
very much the experience of most who have tried to make

money by inventions. Non-success, due now to unfore
seen mechanical obstacles, now to difficulties in obtaining
adequate pecuniary means, now to infringement of patent
rights, now to unfair treatment by a capitalist, is almost
certain to result. Probably it is not too much to say that
there is one prize to fifty blanks.

Shortly after the incidents above chronicled there came

                                              368

JEt. 26-27]  INVENTIONS

a second visit to my friends at Gayton. Whether it took

place before I returned to Derby, or whether I went to
Gayton and thence to Derby, I do not feel clear; but 1
think the last. I remember nothing about the visit

further than my failure to aid in the rectification of a

water-ram supplying the house, which was continually

going wrong.
   At home, during the winter and succeeding spring,

there was resumed that miscellaneous and rather futile
kind of life which had on previous occasions been passed

there. I have no letters of this period serving to refresh
my memory. Probably I was occupied every morning

with further chapters of my proposed book. Then,

weather permitting, there came the afternoon rambles in

the country, during which the subjects I was dealing with

occupied my thoughts. Relaxations were much what

they used to be--meetings for glee-singings; evenings

spent with Lott and his family ; meetings of our Literary

and Scientific Society ; occasional attendances at lectures ;

and now and then a game at chess.

   Things went on in this way until April, unvaried by
any incident save the before-mentioned election of Mr.

Heyworth as Member for Derby, in which I took part.

             369

                      CHAPTER XIXa.

                                   SUSPENSE.

                           1848. Mt. 28.

  What was to be done? I was now 28 years of age,
and all that had passed since I was 21, had left me

stranded again. The intervening seven years, which
should have given me a settled career in life, had, after
sundry ups and downs, ended without result. Partly this
was my own fault, and partly not. At the beginning of

this period I had thrown myself off the rails, and in the

course of it had twice been thrown off the rails by no
failure or deficiency of my own; and what other futile

efforts I had made had implied unwisdom rather than

inability. But now what was to be done?
   In the course of the spring, emigration was suggested,

as witness a letter to my uncle dated Derby, 10th April.
   " Mr. Potter during his late stay in Derby (where he came

to assist in Mr. Hey worth's canvass) said so much in praise
of New Zealand as almost to make me feel inclined to go
there. There seems so little chance of making way in Eng
land, especially under the present depressed state of things,
that one feels almost ready to take any step rather than wait

longer for the turn of the tide. I own, however, that I

should have great difficulty in making up my mind to leave

the civilized world; more particularly as I feel that I can

render some service by remaining in it."

                                                  370

&r 28]            SUSPENSE

   Another thought which arose was that of reverting to

the ancestral profession. A dozen or more years pre

viously, a Dr. Heldenmaier had set up, somewhere to the

north of Derby ( I fancy it was near Worksop, in Notting

hamshire) a school conducted on the Pestalozzian prin

ciple --a kind of English Hofwyl. He had occasionally

called on my father, and the neighbouring presence of his

establishment was a fact familiar to us. Might it not be

possible for my father and myself to do something sim
ilar; not, indeed, to carry out the principles of Pestalozzi

in particular, but to initiate an advanced form of educa

tion? For the linguistic teaching, masters might be em
ployed ; while the teaching of the sciences --mathematics,
physics, chemistry, astronomy, &c. --we might carry on

ourselves. Our views on education were quite in accord ;

in both of us the powers of exposition were greater than

usual ; both had abilities to interest pupils and concomi

tant interests in them. The idea was discussed ; not,

however, with much faith in its practicability. Some cor

respondence with my uncle took place concerning             andit,
there arose the question -- might not Bath, or some place
                                                               if
between Bath and Bristol, easily accessible from the two
                                                                aI ?
places, be desirable locality? A preliminary test was
        a
                        it

                        I
suggested. Would  not be well to see what demand

there was for science-teaching in that neighbourhood;

and, to this end, might not make the experiment by

giving lessons, not in mathematics only, but also in

engineering-drawing, perspective, and the like: so dis

covering whether there would be an adequate response

was decided that at any rate would be well
It

                                                        it

were to visit my uncle, who had at that time taken

house in Bath (6, Ainslie's Belvedere), where, while in

                            371

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

renovate my mathematics, which, during the preceding
dozen years, had grown rusty. On April 23rd, just as

my 28th year was closing, I left home to see whether yet

another career might be commenced. Letters between

that date and the nth May, contain discouraging reports.

Bath, then rather at a low ebb, was peopled largely or
chiefly by retired Anglo-Indians, military and naval
officers on half -pay, and the widows and children
of such ; and, as might have been known beforehand, the

field was one unfavourable to anything beyond the ordi

nary humdrum education. Very soon it became clear
that not only the larger enterprise but even the more
modest enterprise would be hopeless, and before the
middle of May the idea dropped through.

   The trait, common to children's stories and fictions of

ancient type, the characters in which, positively good or

positively bad, are represented as eventually reaping the
rewards of goodness and the punishments of badness, is
a trait pervading nearly all ethical speculations, as well as
current conceptions about life at large. Always we hear
dwelt on the evils which vice brings, while the evils which
virtue often brings are practically ignored. The tacit

assumption is that " poetical justice " will in one way or
other be done; notwithstanding daily proofs that the
wicked often thrive and meet with no reverses, while the
worthy often pass their lives " in shallows and in

miseries," and occasionally bring on themselves disasters
by their righteous conduct.

   In my uncle this crude notion that merit and demerit
always bring their normal results, which Job's friends
expressed thousands of years ago, took the form of an

372

JEr. 28]  SUSPENSE

that if a man did not succeed in life it was his own fault.
This belief, early formed, had been greatly strengthened

by the wide experience which many years had yielded
him of paupers and pauperism. The multitudinous cases
in which misconduct and distress stood in the relation
of cause and consequence, shut out of view the cases in
which distress arose without misconduct. He had in fact

come entirely to ignore good fortune and bad fortune as
factors in human life. Doubtless he would have admitted
that, without any fault of his own, a man may be knocked
on the head by a chimney-pot on a windy day, or be in
jured for life by the accident a runaway cab-horse en
tails on him, or contract a fever, constitutionally very

injurious if not fatal, by travelling in an infected railway-
carriage; but he did not recognize the truth that in the
social world, as in the physical world, there occur catas
trophes for which the sufferer is not responsible, and

other catastrophes implying no greater defect in him than
misjudgment or lack of experience.

   He was now suddenly awakened to this truth by the
loss of a large part of his property, consequent upon an
uncritical acceptance of representations made to him. All
through life he had had a horror of speculation ; chiefly
caused by contemplating the losses his brothers had suf

fered from entering into the lace-manufacture in the days
of its sudden prosperity. But one result of keeping clear of
all business-dangers was that he failed to learn where

business-dangers lie. In a measure he illustrated, by an
tithesis, the Shakespearian saying that " out of the nettle

danger we pluck the flower safety." Never having net
tled himself by running small financial risks, he did not
know the aspects of financial risks, and unawares ran into

a great one.

          373

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

When he gave up his incumbency he decided to re

invest his property and that of my aunt, which had, up

to that time, been in the funds, yielding but 3 per cent.
It seemed clear to him that he might safely obtain a

higher percentage. Out of the many railways projected

during the mania, the South Wales Railway was one

which had something like a sound mercantile basis. Par

liamentary authority had been obtained ; and, at the time

I speak of, the works were in progress. It was put before

the world as being guaranteed 5 per cent, interest by

the Great Western Railway Company. The guarantee

seemed ample to my uncle, and doubtless to most others.

The long reaction which followed the mania continued,

and railway-shares in general were greatly depressed:

sound properties as well as unsound properties being

affected. Hence it seemed, as was represented to him by

the secretary of the South Wales Company, that shares

in good undertakings would be certain presently to rise,

and that he would profit by buying more shares than he

could eventually hold, and selling some to pay the calls

on the rest. This advice he acted upon: taking a like

step, too, in respect of the guaranteed shares in another

railway.

Only after these transactions had been effected did they

become known to me ; and the knowledge of them, when
I received
            it,alarmed me much. was sufficiently ac

                   5

                                        a

                                       I

                                                                                              ;

                                                          I
quainted with the financial arrangements of such under

takings to feel sure that the Great Western Company had

not given to the South Wales Company an unconditional

guarantee of  per cent, on its stock but that this

guarantee was limited to specified capital, which was

alleged to be sufficient to make the line. Further, felt

              374

/Et. 28]  SUSPENSE

estimated cost would fall short of the actual cost, to

some extent and probably to a great extent ; and
that, consequently, the sum forthcoming as interest on
the specified capital would not suffice to pay 5 per cent,

on the actual capital. A further obvious inference was

that, since business-men would recognize this limitation
of the guarantee, the shares would not rise as repre
sented; but would remain depressed, if, indeed, they did
not fall.

    During the period of my visit these conclusions and
anticipations were being verified. Part of his shares my
uncle had to sell at a lower price than he gave for them,

that he might meet the calls on the remainder : a ruinous
process common in those days, which, from time to time
repeated, was figuratively compared to feeding a tiger
with legs of mutton.

   In the course of our conversations I expressed the
opinion that the value of the investment must in great

measure be determined by the ratio between the estimated

cost of the line and its actual cost ; and that if evidence
could be obtained that the difference would not be great

the prospect might be hopeful.

   Soon after the middle of May I left Bath for London :

two motives prompting the journey. One was a desire to
pursue the inquiry just indicated. My uncle got, from the

secretary of the South Wales Company, an authority to
inspect the plans and sections, for the purpose of enabling
me to form a rough idea about the sufficiency or insuffi
ciency of the estimate. With this authority in my hand

I went to Mr. Brunel's offices; and, after I had produced

        subordinate in the drawing-office put the plans before
it,
   a

          375

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

himself came into the room. He inquired who the

stranger was. On being told, he came to me, and, after

demanding my business, asked in an angry way whether
I could judge the sufficiency of the estimate by inspecting

the sections. My reply was that I did not expect to do

anything more than see whether the works were of ordi
nary or of extraordinary magnitude, and whether, from
the general aspect of them, it might be inferred that the
cost per mile would or would not be greater than usual.

Thereupon he went away in great wrath at the implied

scepticism respecting his estimate; though he must have
been well aware that scepticism was in every case well
justified. Concerning the result of this inspection no

memory remains ; nor do I find any letter telling my uncle

of the impression left on me.
   Here let me seize the occasion for saying something

about the distribution of honours, common in England.

Many years ago I saw a drama the subject-matter of

which was the discovery of printing, and the burden of
which was :-- " Honour to whom honour is not due."

Mr. Brunel's career might fitly be instanced to show that
this is frequently the way of the world. Setting out from
a place of vantage, as being " the son of his father," he
first became famous by the introduction of the broad gauge,

which was eventually extended over 1,450 miles, at a cost

in extra works of four and a half millions. After serving
for half a century to cause, by break of gauge, great waste
of time, labour, and money in the shifting of goods, prob
ably entailing a further loss of a million or two, the broad
gauge has been abandoned. Then there came the Great
Eastern steamship. In raising the capital for this, the
financial tactics of Mr. Brunel led my friend Mr. Potter,

376

S.T. 28]  SUSPENSE

history of the vessel was a history of commercial failures,
until the final breaking up of it some years since : further
large losses being thus entailed on shareholders. Yet

again, there was the adoption, on an extensive scale, of
the atmospheric system of traction ; the apparatus for
which was laid down by Mr. Brunel on the South Devon
line at a net cost of £360,000 -- more capital thrown away ;
for after a lengthened trial the system had to be given up.*
And then, on a successful achievement which brought him

credit --the Saltash bridge -- there has to be made the com
ment that it was in part not his but that of my friend Mr.

Hughes, whose method of founding bridges in deep water
ways, personally carried out by him at Mr. Brunel's re

quest, rendered the bridge a possibility.

   For having thus done much work which had to be
undone, wasted many millions of national capital, and
entailed great losses upon multitudes of citizens, Mr.
Brunel was knighted and is commemorated by a statue

on the Thames Embankment !f

The other, and doubtless the chief, purpose of my

* The figures given in this paragraph are based on information fur

nished me by the secretary of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

t When the Saltash bridge was opened there appeared in The Times

          I                                        praising Mr. Brunei for

                              a

                                              it,
for 4th May, 1859, a laudatory account of

the skill with which the difficulties of founding the bridge had been over

come. Feeling indignant that my old friend should be thus defrauded

of the credit due to him, wrote letter to The Times stating the facts of

the case, and, in proof, referred to some independent evidences. One of

them was that in recognition of his invention, described in paper read

to the Institution of Civil Engineers (see Vol. X of their Journal), Mr.
Hughes was awarded the Telford medal (see Vol. XI, 1852). But
                                                   a

                                                          I
though at that time my name was not quite unknown, and though gave

verification, my letter was not published.  was the policy of The Times
          a
                        a

                              It
never to admit an error. That a man should be robbed of the honour

due to an important invention, was matter of small consequence com

pared with the disclosure of mistake made by The Times reporter    !

          377

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

journey to London, was to look round again with the view
of finding something to do. Railway-enterprise being for

the time stopped, engineering was almost out of the

question, and a literary engagement seemed the only

possibility. A letter written home on May 22nd speaks

of things in prospect. One was a forthcoming interview
with " Mr. Cassell, the proprietor of a new weekly journal

about to be started shortly." A succeeding sentence

speaks of a change in the proprietorship and literary staff
of The Daily News, as likely to take place ; and a subse
quent letter, referring to this, says :--

   " I had hopes of making an engagement on The Daily News

which Gilpin, the publisher, had had offered to him, and had
some thought of taking, but he has unfortunately for me
changed his mind."
But, as viewed in the light of subsequent events, the

most important passage in the above-named letter of 22nd
May, was the following :--

   " My uncle gave me a letter of introduction to Wilson, the
editor of The Economist. He treated me very civilly and
invited me to tea at his house on Saturday evening. I saw
there a very interesting French lady-- the Comtesse de
Brunetiere --who is a daughter of Tallien, one of the notables

of the first French Revolution. She is intimately acquainted
with all the leading politicians of Paris and gave us some
very curious details of the late events. Mr. Wilson told us
that she had prophesied the leading events of the late revolu
tion two months before they occurred."

   It seems well here to name the circumstances under
which Mr. Wilson, originally engaged in trade, had come

into the position he now occupied. The Economist had
been established by the Anti-Corn Law League as a propa
gandist organ, and, as usually happens with new papers,

378

X.T. 28]  SUSPENSE

losses, disgusted those who furnished the money : making

them ready to part with it at a great sacrifice. Mr. Wilson,
who had written a work on The Influences of the Corn-

laws, and was, I presume, in intimate association with the

leaders of the league, and probably had already furnished
editorials and other literary material to The Economist,
saw in it the making of a successful journal. Under what

conditions the transaction was effected I do not know ; but

the paper had come into his hands as both editor and

proprietor. He worked on it indefatigably --living at The

Economist office to devote his whole time to it ; and, being
a man of good business judgment, sufficient literary fac
ulty, and extensive knowledge of commercial and financial
matters, soon made it an organ of the mercantile world,
and, in course of a relatively short time, a valuable prop

erty. Meanwhile, though at what time I do not know,

he had been elected member of Parliament for Westbury ;
and, subsequently, he had been appointed Secretary of the
India Board, or Board of Control -- a government depart
ment which had for its function to supervise the doings of
the East India Company, then still existing. He had thus
risen in a short time, by sheer force of ability and energy,
to a position of considerable wealth and influence. Con
cerning a subsequent call upon him, which occurred some
three weeks later, a letter home says :--

   " I had a long interview this morning with Mr. Wilson,

M.P., who manifested some interest in my proceedings and
inquired how I should like a sub-editorship to a London
weekly paper. This was put in such a manner as to lead me
to suppose he referred to The Economist. Our interview
ended with his requesting me to leave my address with him,
with the understanding that he would write to me if an
opening should present itself."

                                                   379

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

  On the first, or on the second occasion, I gave to

Mr. Wilson a copy of my pamphlet on The Proper Sphere
of Government, with the general tenor of which he ex

pressed himself in sympathy, though making qualifications.

Possibly the sum which seemed thrown away over the
republication of the letters to The Nonconformist, was not
after all thrown away.

   The middle of June found me once more at Derby --

once more reverting to my unprofitable life : unprofitable,

that is, in a pecuniary sense. I had, indeed, made an

engagement to write a leading article weekly for the new

paper above referred to, which was to come out under the
assuming title of The Standard of Freedom; but it was not
yet launched, and even had it been launched the proceeds
of one article per week would not have sufficed to meet my
expenses in London.

   Though I had forgotten the fact, letters show that I did,

after this paper started, contribute some articles: one of

them, I see, entitled " Tu quoque," being applauded by my

uncle Thomas. But the writing of these accounted for

only a small expenditure of time during the autumn. My
time was chiefly expended over some chapters of my
intended book. These now possessed me a good deal.
There were many rambles through the fields in deep
thought about them ; for my thinking was then, as always,
done largely, if not mainly, while walking. The mental ab

sorption, thus caused, was not altogether harmless. There
were some disturbances of health which later experience

led me to interpret as having had a nervous origin. Re

pugnance to long-continued attention, which has been one

of my traits throughout life, is possibly due to the fact

380

Mr. 28]  SUSPENSE

than most do. That aversion to monotony of every kind,
which was named in a previous chapter as an organic
trait, appears to be illustrated both in the impatience of
those repetitions of an effect which exhaust a particular
part of the nervous system, and in the inability of the
nervous system as a whole to bear persistent action of one

kind. I suspect that the peculiarity is at root a physio

logical one -- a want of tone in the vascular system. The

vessels lose too soon their normal contractility under stress,
and then fail to carry on nervous repair at a rate which
keeps pace with nervous waste.

   No further memories concerning those autumn months
of 1848 remain with me; save, indeed, of some pleasant
excursions. There had by that time been established in

Derby, as in many other places, a Saturday-afternoon
holiday, and the Midland Railway Company had, as a

consequence, set up a Saturday-afternoon excursion train
which was utilized by all classes of the townspeople, and
carried them at low fares into the picturesque parts of

Derbyshire. Among the few pleasures which the time

yielded me, were expeditions with my friend Lott and the
ladies of his family into one or other of the Derbyshire
dales ; where, after more or less of scrambling and enjoy
ment of the picturesque, there came, before returning
home, " a tall tea " at some primitive inn.

   Inspection of correspondence, however, disclosing vari
ous forgotten letters, makes up in part for missing recollec
tions, and furnishes me with one passage well worth quot
ing. After only about a year's absence, Jackson had re
turned from India: his engagement having, in some way

I do not remember --probably abandonment of the under

taking with which he was connected -- been brought to an

         381

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

seeking for something to do. In a letter written soon after
he came back, he moralized thus :--

  "I have thought much of matters, perhaps not so deeply

as you have nor with such a metaphysical mind, but one thing

has struck me as regards yourself, namely, that you who
have much brighter intellect and stronger powers of mind
do not succeed so well in general as others far your inferiors.
And why should it be so? I believe in a great measure
because you oppose your views to others too directly. I
have done so also, and have suffered in proportion. We should
follow the stream as far as we can without any breach of

principle, keep any peculiar views we have to ourselves, and

endeavour to please and be pleased with every thing or person
we meet or see. As regards our own happiness, we are more

likely to increase it this way ; and certainly we are more
certain of making friends, which should be an object kept in
view. . . . Perhaps you will say it has nothing to do with

business, but it has, for when you differ from others in

opinion upon any topic, it induces an unfriendly feeling and

)eventually the acquaintance is broken off."
  XVIIIWhen the self-criticisms which close Chapter

were dictated, the existence of this passage was unknown
to me. On discovering it I was of course struck by its

agreement with what I had said. When a man's opinion

of himself coincides with the opinion held by his most

intimate friend, there cannot be much question about its

truth.

   And now, after five months of uncertainty, there came

the offer I had been led to expect. I cannot recall my

state of mind ; but naturally, after so long a delay, it was

not a very hopeful one ; and I had become so inured to
disappointments that probably I looked forward to an

382

Sx. 28]           SUSPENSE

elated or greatly depressed; and I suppose this consti

tutional equanimity was displayed at the time              there
reached me the following letter: --

                         " FONTAINVILLE, WESTBURY, WlLTS,

                                                       "November i$th, 1848.

     " Dear Sir, -- I am in receipt of your note of the 13th.

The situation now vacant in The Economist Office is that

of Sub-Editor, which, while it requires a regular attendance

at the office, does not impose heavy duties. You would have

a room to yourself, and considerable leisure to attend to any

other pursuit, such as preparing a work for the press,

especially from Friday night until about Wednesday in the

following week. At first the salary would be one hundred

guineas a year. If you were disposed to live on the premises

you could have a bed room and attendance free. The mes

senger and his wife live there, and I used to sleep there

when my family was out of town, and they attended on me.

  " If I found that you could contribute leading articles there

would be an additional allowance.
   " The vacancy has existed for some time (it has been

temporarily filled), and as I have about seventy applications
for it-- to none of which I have replied --you will please say

by return of post if you feel inclined to take and so
              a
will appoint
                             I

                                                        it
                                                                         a it,

                                                                    if
                                                                          I
              time for you to meet me in town.
                            " am, dear Sir, yours truly,

H. Spencer, Esq.                   "James Wilson."

Though the salary offered was low, yet the accompany

ing advantages practically raised  to respectable

amount. Evidently, accommodation which Mr. Wilson

found good enough for himself when his family was

away, would be good enough for me; and when to free

residence were added free attendance, fire, and lights, the

total would practically amount to something like £150.

Then, too, the offer of extra pay for leading articles,    iIf

                  383

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

of taking advantage of this possible source of more in
come. The light work and abundant leisure which char
acterized the post, formed to me a further attraction ;
for would not the progress of my book be greatly facili

tated? No reason for hesitation presented itself, and I

forthwith accepted.
   There remains to be noted here a remarkable coin

cidence. For a short time in 1844, I undertook the
functions of sub-editor; and now again in 1848, I
undertook the functions of sub-editor. In each case
the editor under whom I worked was a Scotchman. In
each case the name of this Scotchman was Wilson. In

each case the name of this Scotchman was James Wilson.
It is doubtless true that Wilson is a rather common

Scotch surname, and James a very common Scotch

Christian name ; but still it is strange that I should have

stood in exactly the same relation to two men who were
alike in nationality, in surname, and in Christian name.

   Thus an end was at last put to the seemingly futile part

of my life which filled the space between 21 and 28--

futile in respect of material progress, but in other re

spects perhaps not futile.
   There had been, during those years and four preced

ing years, a varied intercourse with men and things. In
surveying and levelling, in making drawings for railway
works, and in discharging the functions of secretary and

sub-engineer, my first engineering period was passed.

After this came a time of scheming and experimenting --
mechanical, chemical, electrical ; and a time during which
there was some artistic cultivation in drawing, modelling,
and music, as well as some pursuit of natural history : a

384

JEt. 28]  SUSPENSE

writing, broken by brief efforts to open for myself a lit
erary career. Then followed a second engineering period,
bringing me in closer contact with the preliminary busi
ness of railway-making ; joined with the exercise of some
authority, as the regulator of assistants and supervisor of

plans. There was thus afforded me, along with increase

of technical experience, increased experience of men --a
further increase of this last experience being brought by

entanglement in law-suits. Next came the period distin

guishable as that of inventions --successful and unsuc

cessful, but chiefly the latter. This extended somewhat
further my physical knowledge, as well as my knowledge
of life, its difficulties and its ups and downs ; which last
was added to during the subsequent period of suspense.
In short, there had been gained a more than usually
heterogeneous, though superficial, acquaintance with the
world, animate and inanimate. And along with the gain
ing of it had gone a running commentary of speculative

thought about the various matters presented.

   Though I have called this acquired knowledge super

ficial, which in one sense it was, it was in another sense
not superficial. There was commonly shown a faculty of
seizing cardinal truths rather than of accumulating de
tailed information. The implications of phenomena were
then, as always, more interesting to me than the phe
nomena themselves. What did they prove? was the
question instinctively put. The consciousness of causa
tion, to which there was a natural proclivity, and which
had been fostered by my father, continually prompted
analyses, which of course led me below the surface and
made fundamental principles objects of greater attention
than the various concrete illustrations of them. So that
while my acquaintance with things might have been

                  26 38S

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848

called superficial, if measured by the number of facts

known, it might have been called the reverse of super
ficial if measured by the quality of the facts. And there

was possibly a relation between these traits. A friend

who possesses extensive botanical knowledge, once re

marked to me that, had I known as much about the

details of plant-structure as botanists do, I never should

have reached those generalizations concerning plant-

morphology which I had reached.
   It should be noted, too, that the natural culture effected

by direct converse with the world around, had been
accompanied by little artificial culture ; and this little not

of a rigorous kind. I never passed an examination ; nor
could I have passed any such examinations as are com

monly prescribed. In Euclid, algebra, trigonometry,

and mechanics, I might have done fairly well, but in

nothing else. How far did this lack of academic training

affect the ultimate result? The very conception of train

ing, as carried on in the past and as still carried on,
implies a forcing of the mind into shapes it would not
otherwise have taken -- implies a bending of the shoots

out of their lines of spontaneous growth into conformity

with a pattern. Evidently, then, a mind trained, in the
ordinary sense of the word, loses some of its innate

potentialities. Doubtless in most cases the potentialities

are of little account; and such improved capacities as

academic discipline produces, are without set-off in the
form of lost originality. But in some cases the knowl

edge gained is of less value than the originality lost.
The soul of evil in things good is everywhere shown by

the defects which accompany superiorities. On the one

hand, though academic discipline gives a certain fulness
of information and readiness to use it in ordinary ways,

386

/Et. 28]  SUSPENSE

it diminishes the ability to use information in ways which
are not ordinary. On the other hand, while the ab
sence of academic discipline leaves greater freedom of

mind, it leaves also a liability to mental action unguided
by adequate acquaintance with facts. To the intellectual

nature, as to the moral nature, restraint yields benefits
with drawbacks; while liberty also yields benefits with

drawbacks. In my own case the advantages which

intellectual freedom confers seem to have outweighed the

disadvantages.
   But now this period of miscellaneous activities, and

spontaneous development of mind, terminated. Sometime

in December, 1848, I left Derby for London: there to

commence the journalistic duties which, in course of

years, led, step by step, to my special business in life.

   [Note. --After I had given the order to stereotype
these pages, but before the order had been executed, I

glanced through a biographical sketch of the celebrated
engineer, John Ericsson (based on accounts given by Mr.
W. C. Church), and in it met with the following sig

nificant passage :--

    " When a friend spoke to him with regret of his not
having been graduated from some technological institute, he
answered that the fact, on the other hand, was very for

tunate. If he had taken a course at such an institution, he

would have acquired such a belief in authorities that he
would never have been able to develop originality and make
his own way in physics and mechanics."

    The reading of this reminded me of a no less signifi
cant passage contained in the report of an interview with
Mr. Edison, a self-educated man, and probably the most
marvellous inventor who ever lived. My impression is

                                                   387

   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                       [1848

that I cut out this report, or the relevant part of but,
                                               :
as often happens in such cases, cannot now find the ex
                                                     it,
tract. Any hesitation might have felt in citing Mr.
   is
Edison's evidence from memory, removed on finding,
     II                      is is
as now do, that my memoryI          verified by that of
I

another. This evidence was to the effect that in his

establishment college-bred men were of no use the men

who had not passed through the approved curriculum

were better. Another piece of evidence, scarcely less

startling, has occurred to me now that am setting downI

these two. Sir Benjamin Baker, who designed and exe
cuted the Forth Bridge --the greatest and most remark
able bridge in the world, believe-- received no regular

engineering education.

These facts, which had not in mind at the time            I

wrote the foregoing section, yield confirmation of the

inference drawn in it. This inference, presented in its

most general form, that the established systems of edu

cation, whatever their matter may be, are fundamentally

vicious in their manner. They encourage submissive

receptivity instead of independent activity.]

                        388

        PART V.

   XX. Begin Journalism.
  XXI. My First Book.
XXII. An Idle Year.
XXIII. A More Active Year.
XXIV. LEAVE The Economist.


                       CHAPTER XX.

                        BEGIN JOURNALISM.

                    1848-- 50. Mt. 28 -- 30.

  The above title is a somewhat misleading one. A

journalist is usually understood to be one among whose
functions is that of influencing public opinion by articles

and comments. I had no such function. Replying early
in 1849 to a letter from my uncle Thomas, I said --

" You inquire respecting the particular department of the

paper with which I have to do. I cannot better answer than

by saying--with all parts except the Leading Articles, Agri
culture, Literature, and the summaries that appear under the
heads of " Bank returns and Money Market " and " Commer

cial Epitome." All other matters I have to superintend. I
have the offer to write leading articles if I wish to do so ;
but I refrain from this from the desire to devote all my spare
time to my own private writing, which I consider of more
importance than the extra remuneration I should obtain by

writing for the paper."
   This mode of describing my duties makes them appear

more onerous than they really were. Their comparative
lightness will be seen from the following paragraph con
tained in a letter to Lott, written at the end of April.

   " I am happy to say that I can answer your inquiries as to

my position with tolerable satisfaction. The place suits me

on the whole remarkably well, and now that I have got pretty

                                                  391

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

plain of and much to approve. In the first place I am almost
wholly my own master ; scarcely coming in contact with Mr.

Wilson more than once a month, and this, with my rebellious

tendencies, is a great blessing. Then again my work is
decidedly light. Even I, with my invincible idleness, am

obliged to admit this. On Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday,

I have nothing to do but to read through the Times and
Daily News [and less attentively the Morning Chronicle, then
in its old age], extract what may be needful, and put it aside

for subsequent use. On Wednesday and Thursday my work

occupies me from ten until four. Friday is my only hard

day, when I have to continue at it until 12J or 1 at night.

This, however, is a very small payment to make for having

so much time at my own disposal ; permitting me as it does

to go where I please, and when I please, during the early part

of the week."

  The last advantage I from time to time utilized by

making excursions out of town, and at longer intervals

paying visits.

  Of course under the conditions above described, I was

able to adjust my daily routine very much as my own

convenience dictated. After breakfast at half-past eight,
came a walk in St. James's Park or the Green Park. On
my return I did such work as had to be done in the way
of reading and abstracting materials, joined with such

administrative duties as devolved on me. Then at 1

o'clock there was an adjournment to dinner; for I ad

hered to the older usage, both on grounds of convenience

and on grounds of health.

   A few years earlier had been established the Whitting-

ton Club, occupying the premises previously known as
the Crown and Anchor Hotel -- a place famed, in days of

392

&r. 28-30]    BEGIN JOURNALISM

room. Being but five minutes off, it served as a con

venient place for dining; and I joined it chiefly for that
reason. It had, however, further advantages. When
writing home I said of it :-- " there is access to all the

British and Foreign literature of the day " ; and this, or
the contents of the library, often detained me for an hour

in the afternoon. So far as I can remember, the after

noon was otherwise usually spent in some miscellaneous

way.

   My private work was done in the evenings, and, as it

would seem, by necessity; though I do not now under
stand the origin of the necessity. A letter to my mother
in February says -- " I expect that if I am to make any
thing worth calling progress with my book, I shall have
to do it by writing at night. In fact what I have done

has been done at that time." Probably a part cause was

that earlier in the day I could not insure the requisite

quietude.

Though The Economist rarely gave any space to

accounts of entertainments or criticisms on exhibitions,

yet there were given to not however in full measure,
                 ; it,

                                     a

                                 I
the usual free admissions and of these made consider   ;
able use. Press " orders " are always for two persons

and of course the ability to take friend added to the

temptation held out by anything to be seen or heard. The

letter above quoted, after describing the lightness of my:
duties, goes on to say --

   " To these advantages may be added the facility of access

to sundry amusements in the shape of exhibitions and the

atres.      do not profit much by this, however, having been,
        I
           I
as far as can recollect, only twice to the Opera, twice to

                 393

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1848-50

have been here [nearly five months]. The fact is that I am
rather chary of my evenings ; seeing that what writing I do
(and it is, I am sorry to say, very little) I generally do
between 7 and 12 at night. However, though I make little
use of the theatre orders myself, I have the privilege of giving

a few away to my friends, which is worth something."

  On the acting of serious drama I am critical, and easily

repelled by defects, of which there are usually many. But

being then, as now, ever ready to laugh, comedies and

farces, if tolerable, habitually proved attractive. Pro
vided they were not characterized by mere buffoonery, I

was content to ignore their faults, numerous though these

might be. Still, I was less easily pleased than the major
ity. Often I was made melancholy on witnessing the

applause given by well-dressed audiences to " break
down " dances which aimed at drollery and missed
is I
                    ;

                                               a

                                            It

                                            I
                                                    I

                                                                                                it,
and to so-called comic songs containing neither wit nor

humour.                                had but occasional

   To the Opera in the Haymarket

access but to the Royal Italian Opera in Covent Garden,

   had access whenever the orders were not appropriated
by Mrs. Wilson, who, as wife of the proprietor and
editor, had of course the first claim. Most of the per

formances did not greatly attract me.  cared but little

for operatic representations of personal passion only,

however graceful the music. Even Don Giovanni failed

to please me much. A string of pretty airs and duets,

even when supported by fine orchestration, did not fulfil

my conception of an Opera.  seemed to me that there

required in all cases basis of popular passion. The

feelings excited during revolutions and religious enthusi
asms, spontaneously vent themselves in songs, alike of

394

JEt. 28-30]  BEGIN JOURNALISM

matic propriety is given to an Opera which has for its

leading theme the incidents of a social convulsion ; and,
while under the excitement produced by adequate musical
rendering of popular passions, one can overlook minor
incongruities. The following passage in a letter to Lott,

expressed the conception I then had, and still have.

   " Above all other operatic composers Meyerbeer is dra
matic. He really knows what an opera ought be. He

subordinates everything to the characters, the emotion, and

the sentiment, and does not intersperse his music with pretty
little songs and duets that have no relation to the action.
Massiveness, too, is one of his great characteristics. An

opera of his does not give you the idea of a good thing drawn
out thin, as most of them do-- and then he is highly original.

Altogether I may say that I never was satisfied with an opera
till I heard The Huguenots."
Friends with whom I have been constantly at issue on

this point, have insisted upon judging of operatic com

posers by the standard of their music, considered simply

as music ; but I have always contended that the first thing

to be achieved is dramatic truth, and that the promptings

of melodic inspiration must be subordinated to it. This,

I believe, is the doctrine of Wagner. But so far as I have

heard, his practice does not conform to his theory: he
sacrifices the melodic without achieving the dramatic.

   At Midsummer 1849, a new element was added to my
life by the migration of my uncle Thomas to London.
After some two years in Bath, he decided that his labours
for public welfare would be more effective here than else
where, and he eventually took a house in St. James's
Square, Notting Hill.

   His was one of those natures which are improved by

                                                  395

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

misfortune. The loss of a large part of his property in

the way already described, had beneficially changed some
of his opinions and feelings. Throughout life, up to the
time of this great disaster, he had been a successful man ;

and had owed his success to his own efforts and to his
prudence. The result was an almost unqualified belief
that energy and rectitude will insure prosperity to every
one. He was now undeceived. Clear proof was given to
him that there are other causes for good or ill fortune

than good or ill conduct. A marked change of attitude
was the consequence--a great increase of fellow-feeling;
and a striking effect was produced on his preaching. In

earlier days his sermons might have been well character

ized by the words which the old Scotchwoman applied

to ethical sermons in general -- they were distinguished by
" cauld morality." But though in these later days his

sermons, I doubt not (for I never then heard him), con

tinued to be moral rather than theological, their morality
was warmed by sympathy. The consequence was that he
became a very effective preacher. While at Hinton, he
rarely drew any auditors from adjacent parishes; but
now when, as frequently happened, he supplied for a time
the places of absent provincial clergymen, his preaching
quickly gathered immense congregations from many

miles around.

   Our relation had for many years been cordial, and now
became still more cordial ; as did also my relation with
my aunt. Having had so much to do with my education,

and having no children of his own, my uncle had, I think,

acquired a semi-paternal feeling for me; and my liking
for him had gradually increased during years in which my
relative position had been one of independence and not

390

Mr. 28-30]  BEGIN JOURNALISM

quently led to constant intercourse. It became an estab

lished habit for me to spend Sunday evenings with them

--at first every other Sunday, and afterwards every Sun

day ; and the meetings were looked forward to with

pleaure on both sides.

The topics we discussed were not numerous. The arts

and most of the sciences had no attractions for my uncle ;
but on subjects interesting to both -- ethics, politics,
education, and social affairs generally -- there was a gen

eral agreement between us. The Spencer character came

out in prompting kindred views. Even where we

differed, our differences were amicable. Never having

been narrow, he became in his later life increasingly

broad-minded and tolerant. This was strikingly shown

when, on three successive Sunday evenings, we continued

a debate concerning the validity of the belief in a personal

God. The position I took is well expressed in a letter

to my father written shortly afterwards, an extract from
which runs as follows :--

   " Mr. Mason states correctly the substance of our conversa

tion. And I still hold that the question is one about which
no positive conclusion can be come to. I hold that we are as

utterly incompetent to understand the ultimate nature of

things, or origin of them, as the deaf man is to understand

sounds or the blind man light. My position is simply that I

know nothing about and never can know anything about  I it,
            I
and must be content in my ignorance.  deny nothing and
                  it,                 I
affirm nothing, and to any one who says that the current
                                                 is
istheory not true say just as say to those who assert itsI

truth--you have no evidence. Either alternative leaves us in

inextricable difficulties. An uncaused Deity just as incon

ceivable as an uncaused Universe. If the existence of mat

ter from all eternity   is  incomprehensible, the creation of

                            397

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

finding that either attempt to conceive the origin of things is
...Ifutile, am content to leave the question unsettled as the
insoluble mystery  I have lately had several conver

sations on this matter with my uncle, and have been pleased

with his liberality of treatment."

  As I had not seen Mr. Mason (a dissenting minister of
Derby) since 1848, it follows that at the age of 28 I had

reached a quite definite form of that conviction set forth
twelve years later in First Principles.

   My enjoyment of these Sunday evenings at Notting
Hill, was in part due to the circumstance that my social
circle still continued to be small. It naturally did so; for
I took no steps to extend it. I dare say my pride would

have stood in the way had it occurred to me to take any

such steps; and even had I taken them, there would, I

suspect, have been but small success. Being critical, and
having but little reticence, my natural tendency is
towards the expression of disagreement rather than
towards the expression of agreement. And of course the

habitual display of this tendency is apt to leave an un

favourable impression.
   Save when with old engineering friends, and on even

ings now and then spent with my coadjutor Mr. Hodg-

skin, who wrote the reviews and a good part of the lead
ing articles for The Economist, my only opportunities of
meeting strangers occurred at the house of Mr. Chap
man (afterwards Dr. Chapman) to whose evening parties

I had already been once or twice while he lived at Clap
ton; and who had now transferred his publishing

business from Newgate Street to a large establishment
in the Strand, nearly opposite The Economist office. Here

                   398

JEt. 28-30]  BEGIN JOURNALISM

tended. Among many not known to fame, there were

some who had made reputations which proved but tem

porary and some who have made more permanent repu
tations. Of ladies may be named Miss Anna Swanwick,

Miss Bessie Parkes, then known as the author of a vol

ume of poems, Miss Eliza Lynn, now Mrs. Lynn-Linton,

and I think occasionally Madame Bodichon, at that time

Miss Leigh Smith. Then among the gentlemen was Mr.
John Oxenford, well known in those days as theatrical
critic to the Times, writer or adapter of light dramas,
and reader of German philosophy. It was at one of these
gatherings I first met Mr. Froude, who had recently
published with Chapman his Nemesis of Faith, and then

bore on his melancholy face the impress of that book.

Another notability was Mr. Francis W. Newman, who a
little later published his Phases of Faith. His very

gentle manner suggested an angelic sweetness of nature;

but if conversation passed into discussion, it soon ap

peared that he could become peppery enough. Beyond

these and others I do not recall, there were not unfre-

quently Americans of mark; for Chapman had to utilize

his vast house by taking in boarders, and had formed an
American connexion. Emerson took up his abode there

during one of his visits to England, but I did not then

see him. There came, too, Horace Greeley, editor of the

New York Tribune, at that time a man of much influence.

   It was here that, in the spring of 1850, I first met Mr.

G. H. Lewes. We happened to leave the house at the

same time; and, discovering that we were going in the

same direction, we walked together, and talked -- I doubt

not in an animated way enough. One of our topics was

the development hypothesis ; and I remember surprising

             399

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation: he having
supposed that that was the only interpretation. From

this walk dated an acquaintance which a year later was

renewed, and presently became an intimacy.

  Under the arrangement made with Mr. Wilson, I had

the option of occupying rooms at The Economist office,
340 Strand; and during the earlier part of my journal

istic life, I did occupy them. Of course the habitat was
trying to me-- accustomed as I had been to a quiet house
and tolerably good air. I see from letters that notwith

standing double sashes to the windows, it took me a

week to become so far inured to the eternal rattle of the

Strand as to be able to sleep; and I see, too, that for
some time I suffered in general health from noise and
other causes. Though in the subsequent April I de

scribed myself as having become tolerably well accli

matized, yet the insalubrity evidently told upon me.

Hence a change in the spring of 1850. A letter to my
father dated 18 April says: --

  " Since I wrote last I have made a revolution in my domes
tic arrangements. I have been for some time past finding
that I was beginning to suffer considerably in health from

living in the close atmosphere of the office; more especially

since that atmosphere had become much more offensive than

hitherto, in consequence of the drains having got out of order.

Having at length caught cold three times within two months,

I thought it was time to make some change."

   The change referred to was the taking of rooms near
Westbourne Grove -- a place that then corresponded to

its name : an avenue of trees, on each side of which stood

detached cottages in gardens. Clusters of flower-beds

before the doors characterized the terrace in which I

400

M-v. 28-30)       BEGIN JOURNALISM

of its houses into shops. The letter goes on to name a

further revolution in habits.

  I" You will perhaps be surprised to hear that have at the

same time turned vegetarian. Following the example of

....Loch (who has been a vegetarian for these five months)
Jackson has been trying the system for this month past, and
                                                               I feel
finds himself greatly improved in health

quite well with   and, as have said, improved. But of
                 I it,
                                                   due to the change of air."
                                 I

                                               is
course much of the improvement

To which cause should have added the daily walks into

town and out again. Describing the effects of the new
regimen, letter to my mother, dated May says: --

   " As have felt no inconvenience during these first few
   II                                              I
          a
weeks, do not suppose shall now do so.                     6,

                                                           I
                  I                                think have felt
                       I
the cold more keenly than should otherwise have done, and
                           I
I  find others who are trying the experiment make the same

complaint.      believe, however, that this result merely tem
             I                                     is

porary. Meantime am in all respects well and strong."

   From the phrasing of these statements           it     clear that

                                                      I is
I  was willing to persist in vegetarianism, had been en

couraged to do so by further results. My scepticism was

first aroused, however, by the fact that after six months'

abstinence from animal food, our friend Loch gave evi

dence of lowered condition. His voice had become
             a

extremely mild and feeble, and he had partially lost

power over one of his feet in walking. Writing, as
                                                   I
                                                               I

                                                                              it
seems from my father's dating, towards the close of May
(for had not dated the letter myself), said-- " have
is
about decided to give up the vegetarianism, at any rate
    I
for the present.  think this relaxation under the eyes
                  I
   due to it." The clearest evidence, however, that hadI
                                                   I
been suffering, was disclosed afterwards.it                 II

                                                                    I
                                                   found that

had to re-write what had written during the time was

a  vegetarian, because was so wanting in vigour.

             27 401

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                          [1848-50

  Here, as I shall not have a fitter opportunity for nam

ing may add, concerning place of residence, that
after returning some months later to the Strand, and

spending the rest of the year there, went for short
time to St. George's Place, Kentish Town, and thence
migrated to No. 20 Clifton Road, St. John's Wood,
which continued to be my abode during the remainder

of my engagement with The Economist.
it,

 I
                                      I

                                                                                               a

What was the tenor of my intellectual life in those

days? Did trust to memory only, should reply that
read nothing but newspapers and periodicals -- not even
a it                                         I                a it
                                                                  is
     Ireading novels, much less any serious books. Reference
               I                                                   I
to correspondence, however, has undeceived me. One
letter to Lott names The Caxtons and Strathmorc as hav

ing been read; and another, commenting on Pendennis,
ranks above Vanity Fair because " there less satire

and more sympathy in it." A subsequent paragraph
                                                    I
praises novel then recently published by Mrs. Gaskell.    is

   " And now whilst think of let me ask whether you haveI it

read " Mary Barton." If you have not, do by all means. It

affords some very good discipline.       I   cannot say that                                      at

all an agreeable book to read. It        is  on the contrary very

painful one. In fact at one part of      iIt        got quite angry with

the authoress (for authoress hear            it     is) for torturing my
feelings so needlessly. However                     very instructive book
                                         it
                                            is
                                                 a

and one that everyone should read."

I  As my memory has failed me in respect to light litI

                iterature, very possibly, or even probably, has done so
in respect to graver literature; and may have given

attention to some serious books in 1849 and 50, though
   do not remember it. One only which looked into,

                    402

£.i. 28-30]  BEGIN JOURNALISM

the substance of which he was said to have borrowed

from Schelling. The doctrine of individuation struck

me ; and, as was presently shown, entered as a factor into

my thinking.

  How it happened that I read so little I scarcely know.

It may have been that my leisure was mainly occupied

with thinking; for I had a good deal to think about, and

thinking was always with me more pleasurable than
either reading or doing. Or it may have been in part

that few beyond ephemeral books came in my way; for

I did not then subscribe to Mudie's library or any other.
   It is true that there came to The Economist, books for

review (not many, however, for The Economist had but

small space for literary criticisms) ; and into these I oc

casionally dipped before they went to Mr. Hodgskin.

Of one only have I any remembrance; and that because

of the adverse impression it produced. When, some

years before, there had appeared Modern Painters by

Mr. Ruskin, I was delighted to find in him one who

dared express unfavourable opinions about some of

Raphael's works; for I had all my life stood alone in in

sisting on the various faults of these, as of most other

paintings by the old masters. Naturally, therefore, when

there came to The Economist his just-issued Stones of

Venice, I opened it with raised expectations. On look

ing at the illustrations, however, and reading the adja

cent text, I presently found myself called upon to admire

a piece of work which seemed to me sheer barbarism.
My faith in Mr. Ruskin's judgment was at once

destroyed; and thereafter I paid no further attention

to his writings than was implied by reading portions
quoted in reviews or elsewhere. These, joined with cur

             403

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

justified the opinion I had formed. Doubtless he has a

fine style, writes passages of great eloquence, and here
and there expresses truths; but that one who has writ

ten and uttered such multitudinous absurdities should

have acquired so great an influence, is to me both sur

prising and disheartening.
   If, as this reference to Mr. Ruskin suggests, the

aesthetic should be here joined with the intellectual, I

may fitly quote a passage from a letter bearing upon it.

    " Mentioning Loch's name reminds me that we have had
several very pleasant botanizing excursions lately. Loch
commenced the study in the spring, and during our occasional

walks when I called upon him, I found that all my interest

in it had died away. By and bye, however, it began to revive ;

and of late I have enjoyed it as much as he has. We have

generally chosen Sundays for our trips into the country, and
have returned much better for them in all respects. One fact
in connexion with this matter has pleased me much. You

may probably have remarked that I have been seemingly

deficient in the admiration for flowers which most have ;

and, indeed, I think I have confessed in your presence that

they do not yield to me that amount of pleasure which, con
sidering my perceptions of beauty in colour and form are
pretty active, they ought to do. Well, whether it be this

botanizing or not I do not know, but I have, within this month

or two, remarked a very marked increase in my appreciation

of floral beauty ; so that to-day as I walked along the flower-
walk in Kensington Gardens, I found myself perpetually

tempted to linger by the admiration of beauties and graces
that had never excited me before to anything like the same

extent."

   About the interpretation here suggested I am very

doubtful; for, certainly, intellectual analysis is at vari

404

JEr. 28-30]  BEGIN JOURNALISM

proved to me in the case of flowers at the time when I

was studying them in relation to the laws of organic form.

   The several sections of this chapter, though some of

them referring to particular times, must be understood
as generally referring to the period over which my jour

nalistic life extended. In them I have aimed to repre

sent my daily routine, and the average incidents which
the months and years brought me. They must be re

garded as constituting the background to more special
doings and occurrences.

   To such more special doings and occurrences the four
chapters which follow are devoted.

             405

                     CHAPTER XXI.

                           MY FIRST BOOK.

                    1848 --50 Mt. 28 --30.

   The offspring of the mind, like the offspring of the
body, are apt to become objects of engrossing interest to
which all other objects are subordinated. A striking il
lustration of this was furnished by me early in 1849, as I
was taking my morning walk in St. James's Park. The

weather was frosty ; and, having a bad cold, I was cough

ing violently. Abrasion of a small superficial blood
vessel produced some appearances which I, little the

better it seems for such medical knowledge as I pos

sessed, absurdly interpreted into spitting of blood, and

at once inferred that I was doomed. As I walked on in
saddened mood, my first thought was-- " It will be a pity
if I can't finish my book first."

   After writing the above paragraph, and after remem
bering that the book, commenced early in the autumn of

1848, was not finished till Midsummer 1850, I was about
to remark that, considering the degree of interest I felt
in the undertaking, it is strange that I should have been

so dilatory in executing it. Reference to correspondence,
however, proves that my lack of energy was not so great

as I supposed. A letter sent home early in 1849 says :--
  " I cannot say that I make satisfactory progress with my

                                                  406

Mt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

interruptions that I do not spend half the time at it that I
wished and intended to do. One cause of this is that I feel
it necessary to take what out-door relaxation I can get during

my leisure days, lest my health should break down."

   A letter to my father in December, shows that in pur

suance of a wish to issue the book during the next pub

lishing season I was working hard.
   " They tell me I am looking very well--much better than

I was some months ago. So that, considering that I am at

work until 12 o'clock every night and on Fridays till about 2,

I think I may rather brag."

   Having for more than thirty years been unable to

work late in the day without losing the whole of such

rest as a night brings me, I have become so accustomed

to associate the two as cause and effect, that it seems

strange to me that anyone should be able to write at

night and sleep afterwards; and it seems to me almost

incredible that I could at one time do so myself. Even

then, however, an injurious effect resulted after a time.

   " I have already commenced revising, which I am doing

after dinner and in the evening, in consequence of finding

that much writing at night was making me sleepless. And I

have been getting up early (sometimes at 5) to do the new

writing; but I do not know how long it will last."

   Thus it appears that, especially when getting within

sight of the goal, I did not consult my ease quite so much
as I thought.

   In some measure the slowness of my progress was due

to the labour I spent over the composition. Somewhere
I had met with the saying that a book is saved by its

style; and had taken the saying to heart. Probably it

would have influenced me but little had I not been con

            407

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

high ideal, and being by nature prone to look for faults,

alike in the performances of others and in my own, I was

commonly not satisfied by the first expressions which

suggested themselves; and never rested so long as I

thought that a sentence might be made clearer or more

forcible.

   Moreover I had some years before been led to make

style a subject of study, and had embodied the general
conclusions reached in an essay on Force of Expression ;
so that both by mental proclivity and by preparation I
was prompted to be critical. Of every later book the
original manuscript, sprinkled with erasures and inter

lineations, has been sent to the press; but the original
manuscript of this first book, after revising it with care,

I copied, and then, when the time for publication was

approaching, revised the copy: making, as a letter says,
" some ten or a dozen erasures per page," " even in the

first parts which I wrote so very carefully." And here,

for the sake of a remark it suggests, let me quote a sen

tence from a letter written while the latter part of the

volume was in progress.

  I" I have lately been less particular than heretofore ; and

have adopted this course in consequence of finding that the
imperfections that it costs much thought and trouble to rectify
at the time of writing, become visible enough and easily
amended after the lapse of some time."

   This, which is a familiar experience from ancient days
down to ours, implies a curious analogy between the
workings of the intellect and the workings of the emo
tions. That during emotional excitement it is difficult
to see where the right lies, while, after an interval, it be

comes comparatively easy, and after the lapse of years

408

&t. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

fault of conduct, is a fact observed by most. And here

it is observable that in like manner, the flaws in our in

tellectual processes as embodied in words, are difficult

to perceive during the heat of production, but become

conspicuous when the currents of thought have for a

long time left them.
   Let me add another remark concerning erroneous es

timates, now too favourable, now too unfavourable, of

our mental products, as of other things with which we

are identified. The diversities of judgment consequent

on permanent diversities of physical constitution, as

well as those consequent on temporary diversities of

bodily state, are not sufficiently recognized; or not rec

ognized to sufficient purpose. I was told by a friend

that during a long period of ill-health, accompanied by

depression so great that he felt strongly inclined to com

mit suicide, he was fully aware that his gloomy thoughts

and forebodings of disaster were results of physical de

rangement; and yet this knowledge did not enable him

to expel them: his judgments were perverted in spite of

himself. Perversions less extreme are common, and,

indeed, occur in all people: here being habitual and
there occasional. In some matters of perception, each
man's " personal equation," once ascertained, makes it

easy to correct the errors of his observations; but, un

fortunately, we have no means of establishing personal
equations for the correction of judgments. These re

flections are suggested by remembrance of the varying

opinions I formed of my work during its progress. Now

I took up a chapter written sometime before, and, after
            said to myself -- "Good: that will do very
reading;

         it,

                                    I
well " and then, in another mood, re-read the same

            409

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

that the argument was not well put, or that the expres

sion lacked vigour.

  On the whole, however, I was tolerably well satisfied;

and sometimes looked forward to the day of issue with

raised expectations.

   Early in the Spring of 1850, when completion of the

work was within sight, there arose the question, --How
to get it published? At that time I was, and have since
remained, one of those classed by Dr. Johnson as fools --

one whose motive in writing books was not, and never

has been, that of making money. The thought that I
might profit pecuniarily, never even occurred to me --

still less served as a prompting thought. To get the
work printed and circulated without loss, was as much

as I hoped ; but how to do this ?

   The difficulties were great; and as indication of them

may be instructive to literary aspirants, and especially

to those whose ambitions lie in the direction of serious

literature, I here give some relevant extracts from let

ters to my father. They were written in the latter part
of March.

   " I have made an appointment with Chapman for Saturday
morning, when I am to read him part of the manuscript.
Judging from the attitude he takes, I expect there will be

considerable difficulty in getting the book published. He

speaks of his position as being such that he dare not speculate ;
and that the question would turn more upon the degree of

dependence he could place upon my ability to meet the cost,
supposing the book should not pay. He says, moreover, that
from his past experience of philosophical books, it is probable
that the more highly he thought of it the less hopeful he
should be of its success."

The following is from a letter sent a few days later.

                                                  410

JEt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

  " I had a long talk with Chapman this morning and on the

whole a favourable one. It has been all along understood

that the publication was to be on my own responsibility : the
only question with Chapman being to what extent it would

be safe to give me credit. He says that he is himself so short
of capital, that were he the only party concerned he should be

obliged to decline; seeing that he dare not run the risk of

having to lie out of his capital that length of time that it might

take me to pay the deficiency, if the work should not succeed.

He says, however, that his friend Woodfall (with whom I

think I told you he was in the habit of making such arrange
ments) would agree, if Chapman thought I might be trusted,

to give me two years' credit. And Chapman, seeing the

probability of my railway claims being settled before the

expiration of that term, and seeing, further, that I should

be able to lay by some considerable sum out of my salary

between this time and that, seems inclined to recommend

him to do this."

   The Mr. Woodfall referred to in this extract (a de
scendant of the Woodfall of political celebrity) took an

interest in Chapman's business as a channel for liberal

thought. Doing, as he did, much of Chapman's print
ing, he sometimes entered into joint responsibilities ;

and he willingly listened to the suggested arrangement.
The railway-claims referred to, enabled me to give him
something like a guarantee. Since 1845, one OI tne

companies by which I had been then employed had owed
me £80; and I took Mr. Woodfall to the office of the

official liquidator under the winding-up act, for the pur
pose of verifying my statement that such a sum was due.
The agreement was then made and the printing pro

ceeded.

   The moral of these facts is that in the absence of a

             411

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

Chapman was anxious to bring out the book), and in the

absence of this partial security I was enabled to give, the

book would not have been issued at all; or, at any rate,

would have remained unissued for years, waiting until

I had accumulated a sufficient sum to meet the cost.

  I am greatly indebted to my father for preserving

everything written; even where no probable use for it
could be assigned. Much correspondence which might
reasonably have been regarded as valueless, has proved
useful; and some letters from me to him at this time,

serve a purpose which neither he nor I could have

imagined when they were sent and received. They con
cern the title of the book, which was being discussed
while the negotiations about printing were going on.

The following extracts I give for a reason which

will presently be manifest.
   Let me premise that anyone who glances at its con

tents will see that the aims of the work are primarily
ethical. Its introduction discusses the doctrines of dif
ferent schools of moralists ; its first part seeks to deduce

men's rights from a fundamental law of equity; and its
remaining parts draw corollaries concerning equitable

political arrangements: enforcing the ethical deductions
by considerations of expediency. My own conception of
it was expressed by the following sentence contained in
a letter written in March.

   " The Title is to be --' A System of Social and Political

Morality.' "

In a letter of mine which my father has dated May (he
frequently added dates when I had omitted them) there
occur these paragraphs: --

   " I am rather undecided as to the title of my book. Peppe,

                                                   412

JEt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

whom I think I have mentioned to you, says that a friend of

his to whom he happened to mention the title, quite agreed
with him in thinking it was not one that would attract atten
tion; but that people would rather feel inclined to pass it

over as suggesting a threadbare subject. He quite approved

of the term Demostatics, which I told him I had used in the

introduction, but had felt fearful of using for a title lest it

should be thought pedantic. My uncle, with whom I was

talking over the matter last night, seems also to like the

Iword, and advises me to take the opinions of as many as

can place confidence in. The word is perfectly appropriate
as describing the special nature of the book ; and is also sug
gestive of its strictly scientific character. The only objection
is, that it might give a handle to ill-natured criticisms.

   " I have also thought of the expression --Social Statics; but

my uncle objects to this that it would be taken by many

people for social statistics. Of course to either of these I
should append the title I have already chosen, by way of

explanation."

And then on August 7, after the printing had made con

siderable progress, I wrote to my father --

    " Neither Chapman or Mr. Hodgskin approves of Demo
statics as a title. They both think that more would be prej
udiced against the book by it than would be impressed in its
favour.

   " Mr. Hodgskin quite approves of Social Statics, which he

thinks would be a very good title. I am going to consult

with Chapman about it. What is your objection to it? As

I am now thinking of it the title would stand --

    Social Statics: a System of Equity Synthetically De

veloped."

  Three things are, I think, thus made manifest. First,

that the work was conceived by me, and had continued

up to the time of its completion to be regarded by me,

             413

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                      [1848-50

that the word Demostatics, already used in the introduc
tion (erased before printing) was the word to which I
leaned as a leading title, when the original title was ob

jected to: my intention being to suggest what I con

sidered the subject-matter of the book-- how an aggre

gate of citizens may stand without tendency to conflict
and disruption-- how men's relations may be kept in a

balanced state: my belief being that the conforming of

social arrangements to the law of equal freedom, or to the

system of equity deducible fromI                         insured the mainte

nance of equilibrium. And third, that the title Sociala it,
Statics, thought of as an alternative suggesting the same
                                        I II
                                                                    a
general idea, was used by me only because was dis

suaded from using the title Demostatics, as had previ

ously been dissuaded from using the original title.

   It was unfortunate that then knew nothing more of

Auguste Comte, than that he was French philosopher
--did not even know that he had promulgated
                                                                       system

having distinctive title, still less that one of its divi
sions was called " Social Statics." Had known this,
a it

          Ia
and had in consequence adhered to my original title,

would never have entered any one's head to suppose

relation between M. Comte and myself: so utterly
                                                         called " A System of
different in nature  that which
                     is

                                                      ;

                                    I
Social and Political Morality " from that which M.
Comte called " Social Statics " and so profoundly op

posed are our avowed or implied ideals of human life and

human progress.

       cannot now recall the feelings with which glanced
through the papers in search of review. Impatience.

   dare say, was the dominant feeling; for the notice of
II
                                                                          a
                                                         I
                                                                                                                         a

                     414

Mt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

long delayed. Nor can I remember whether, when re
views at length came, I was disappointed by their super

ficial character. No analytical account of the book
appeared; and, as usual with books of the kind, readers
were left to find out its nature for themselves. In the

absence of one, let me here sketch out such a review as

might have been written by a competent critic who had
read Social Statics through, and given due thought to its

arguments.

    Nothing in this volume implies that its author accepts the
current creed ; and though a chapter entitled " The Divine
Idea " implies that he is a theist, yet, for anything that
appears to the contrary, his theism is nominal only. Immedi
ate divine interposition nowhere enters as a factor into his
conception of things ; but, contrariwise, things, human as well
as other, are conceived as conforming everywhere and always
to immutable law. Such being the case, it seems to us that
merely putting at the back of immutable law a divine idea,
practically amounts to nothing: the immutable law might
stand just as well by itself.

   Social Statics, or, to quote its sub-title, The Conditions
essential to Human Happiness specified, and the first of them
developed, might fitly be characterized as a kind of Natural-
History ethics. Its sub-title shows that, assuming happiness
as the end to be achieved, it regards achievement of it as
dependent on fulfilment of conditions ; conformity to which
constitutes morality. It considers Man as an organized being
subject to the laws of life at large, and considers him as
forced by increase of numbers into a social state which
necessitates certain limitations to the actions by which he
carries on his life ; and a cardinal doctrine, much emphasized
by Mr. Spencer, is that Man has been, and is, undergoing
modifications of nature which fit him for the social state, by
making conformity to these conditions spontaneous. In a

            415

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                  [1848-50

the truth that increased use of any power, bodily or mental, is
followed by increased strength of it; and conversely. He
argues that the implied adaptation of constitution to require
ments goes on without limit ; and that therefore, in course of
time, the adaptation of human nature to the social state will
become complete -- man will become perfect. Here is one
illustration among many of Mr. Spencer's too-little-qualified
conclusions. We will not enlarge on the fact which He should

have recognized, that as fast as adaptation approaches com

pleteness, it becomes slower and slower--that the forces which
produce change become less as the need for change dimin
ishes ; so that adaptation must ever remain incomplete. Mere
ly noting this, we go on to point out that, for adaptation to
become complete, the conditions must remain constant ; which
they do not. Astronomic and geologic changes must cause in
the future, as they have caused in the past, unceasing altera
tions in the climatic and other characters of men's habitats ;

entailing slow migrations of races from regions which have
become unfit to fitter regions. Along with such migrations
must go modified habits of life, and of industrial arrange
ments. So that before adaptation to any one set of conditions
has been approached, some other set of conditions will have

to be met.

   Passing now to the ethical part of his theory, we find Mr.
Spencer's first proposition to be that every man is free to do
whatsoever he wills provided he does not infringe the equal
freedom of any other man -- free to do that is, in the sense
that within this limit, other men have no right to restrain
him. This said to be the primary condition to which men's
actions must conform before social life can be harmonious.
But Mr. Spencer does not say what he means by men -- How

about children If the law not applicable to them, are they

to be regarded in old Roman fashion, as property over which

the parent has life-and-death power? If, contrariwise, the

law applicable to them, must they be considered as having
is
           is

                     ?

                                         is
                                                             it,

416

JEt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

freedom? Clearly Mr. Spencer should at least have limited

his doctrine to adults.
   After making this needful qualification, we may accept the

conclusion that men's claims to life, to personal liberty, to
property, to free speech, &c., &c., are corollaries from this first
principle: all forms of equity, or equalness, being implied in it.
Passing over some chapters in which these corollaries are
drawn, we come upon one which again shows our author's way
of pushing his doctrines to extremes, without regarding the
limitations necessitated by social conditions. We refer to the
chapter on " The Rights of Women." Setting out with the
assertion that " equity knows no difference of sex," he argues

that the rights previously deduced must be as fully recognized
in women as in men; and presently coming face to face with

the question of political rights, he boldly claims these as much
for the one as for the other. Now as a matter of equity
simply, this claim might be valid were the social positions of

men and women alike in every other respect. But they are

not. Just noting that certain privileges which men accord
to women constitute a kind of social priority, it will suffice
to emphasize the fact that along with their citizenship, men
have the obligation of defending the country, while women
have no such obligation. To give women the same political
power as men without joining to it his onerous political duty,
would be to give them not equality but supremacy. Only if,
while receiving votes, they undertook to furnish to the Army
and Navy contingents equal to those which men furnish,
could they be said to be politically equal.

   In Part III. of his work, Mr. Spencer treats at length of

those political applications of his first principle incidentally
touched upon in the last paragraph ; and here we shortly
come upon the strangest and most indefensible doctrine in
the book. Unquestionably Mr. Spencer has " the courage of
his opinions; " for, in a chapter entitled " The Right to Ignore
the State," he actually contends that the citizen may properly

refuse to pay taxes, if at the same time he surrenders the

                 38 417

    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY           [1848-50

advantages which State-aid and State-protection yield him !

But how can he surrender them ? In whatever way he main

tains himself, he must make use of sundry appliances which

are indirectly due to governmental organization ; and he

cannot avoid benefiting by the social order which government

maintains. Even if he lives on a moor and makes shoes, he

cannot sell his goods or buy the things he wants, without

using the road to the neighbouring town, and profiting by

the paving and perhaps the lighting when he gets there. And

though he may say he does not want police-guardianship, yet,

in keeping down footpads and burglars, the police necessarily

protect him whether he asks them or not. Surely it is mani
fest --as indeed Mr. Spencer himself elsewhere implies --that

the citizen is so entangled in the organization of his society,

that he can neither escape the evils nor relinquish the benefits

which come to him from it.
   Concerning the succeeding chapter on " The Constitution

of the State," little needs be said. In these days of extended

franchise and agitations for wider extension of Mr. Spen
                               it it,
cer will find general agreement in his argument deducing the
                                                                 ;
constitution of the State from the law of equal freedom.
Nor need the chapter on " The Duty of the State " detain us,

further than to remark that we wish we could see some sign

that the State will presently give to each citizen that com

plete protection against civil, as well as criminal, injuries,
which payment of taxes entitles him to. But the next chapter --
"The Limit of State Duty" --introduces another of Mr. Spen

cer's peculiar views, which most readers will promptly reject.

In he contends that beyond its function of protector against
it

external and internal enemies, the State has no function

and that when assumes any other function becomes an
aggressor instead of protector --partly by unduly restricting
    it

             a

men's spheres of action, and partly by taking away their

money to support its additional staffs of officials. The re
mainder of Part III.
                      is  devoted to discussing the various

                          418

JEt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

lation of Commerce," " Religious Establishments," " Poor
Laws," " National Education," " Government Colonization,"
" Sanitary Supervision," &c, &c. Each of these chapters

begins by deducing from the law of equal freedom, the
inequity of the particular kind of State-action treated of;

and then proceeds to show the impolicy of such kind of

State-action. The conclusion set forth in the first two of

these chapters, are conclusions already drawn by many people.
Those set forth in the others will be variously regarded --

mostly with repugnance. For ourselves.we mayconfess to feel

ing some sympathy with Mr. Spencer in his portests against

the multitudinous mischiefs done by legislation; and think

that politicians would do well to inquire more carefully and

sceptically than they do, before proposing new regulations.
In defending some of his theses, however, Mr. Spencer enun

ciates doctrines which will horrify many soft-hearted people.

Describing (on p. 322)    the ways in which    among   animals
the destroying agencies  at work, continually  " weed  out the

sickly, the malformed, and the least fleet or powerful," and
saying that by this and kindred processes " all vitiation of

the race through the multiplication of its inferior samples
is prevented," Mr. Spencer goes on to argue that mankind
are, and should be, subjected to this " same beneficent, though
severe discipline " ; and he holds that when a Government

tries to prevent the misery necessitated by the stress of
competition and the consequent " struggle for life or death,"

it eventually creates far more misery by fostering the incapa-
bles : saying of the " spurious philanthropists " that " these

sigh-wise and groan-foolish people bequeath to posterity

a continually increasing curse." So, again, on pp. 378-81,
he asserts that " inconvenience, suffering, and death, are the

penalties attached by nature to ignorance, as well as to incom

petence;" and contends that the State does mischief when

it wards off such penalties. Verily this teaching is not meat

for babes but for men; and men of strong digestions, too.

                         419

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

against interference by the State with the normal con
nexion between suffering and inferiority : saying, of the
natural expurgation of society ever going on, that, " in so far
as the severity of this process is mitigated by the spon
taneous sympathy of men for each other, it is proper that
it should be mitigated."

   Part IV. we must pass over; though the chapter entitled
" General Considerations " contains matter for comment --
mostly approving but partly dissentient. Already points of
dissent have been sufficiently emphasized --perhaps obscuring

too much sundry points of agreement of greater importance.
We do not deny that, for harmonious social co-operation,
there must be recognized the liberty of each limited only by
the like liberty of all : the further limitations which morality
dictates, not being properly imposed by public agency. That
those various claims which we distinguish as " rights " are
corollaries from this fundamental requirement, seems also to
be a well-grounded proposition. Moreover, the arrange
ments implied by political justice are deduced by Mr. Spencer
from the first principle he lays down, by arguments which
seem to us mostly valid. Nor are we concerned to dispute

the inference, that when the State undertakes to regulate
and aid men in the carrying on of their lives, it inevitably
diminishes their liberties, by controlling either their actions
or their purses ; while, unquestionably in many cases, it does
evil rather than good by its officious meddlings. Though, as
pointed out, the absolutely optimistic belief in the perfect
adaptation of men to the social state, is untenable, yet there
is reason for thinking that an approximate adaptation is
being slowly effected. And there may be warrant for the
doctrine set forth in a curious section of the " General
Considerations," where, saying that we often " speak of the

body politic " and " compare a nation to a living organism "
(being led, by this collocation of ideas, to use the strange
phrase "the social organism"), Mr. Spencer argues that there

420

J&1. 28-30]     MY FIRST BOOK

and the structures of its units --an action and reaction by

which the two are being ever moulded and re-moulded into

congruity; so that eventually man will acquire a nature

such that he will tend to do spontaneously that which the

welfare of society demands.

It is a pity that Mr. Spencer did not devote some years

more of thought to his work before publishing                                    it.   He might

then have set forth the truths contains freed from the crude
                                           a
ideas with which they are now mingled, and undisfigured byit

illegitimate corollaries.

Little to be expected, criticism of this kind, serving

really to enlighten readers concerning the nature of the

work, nowhere appeared. The usual purposes of re                                          a
viewer are-- first, to get his guineas with the least ex
                                                                                             I
penditure of labour second, to show what clever fellow                        a

he --how much more he knows about the matter than
is

                   ;
                                            ;

                                         is

                                                                           :
the author third, to write an amusing article fourth, to
                                                                                 It ;
give some account of the book which last purpose, often

practically unattempted,                   rarely fulfilled.                           may, in

deed, be said in the critic's defence that, did he bestow

on each book as much time and thought as would be

requisite for giving satisfactory delineation and esti
It
                                        a
mate, he could not get bread and cheese at the work.

must not be supposed, however, that had any
                                                                                 I

reason to be dissatisfied with the reception given to Social

Statics: judging the reception by the ordinary standards.

On the contrary, the book gained more attention than was

to be expected. The following extract from letter
                                                                                       a

shows that was quite content with the treatment ac
             I

corded to me.

   " With the exception of the Daily News wet blanket,
have so far had nothing but sunshine. Indeed am some
                                                                                 I

                                           421

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1848-50

expected that some of the expediency-school would have

pitched into me savagely. But probably I may still come in

for a taste of abuse."

   Let me add, as being noteworthy, that Social Statics
was more extensively, as well as more favourably, no
ticed, than any one of my later books: a fact well illus
trating the worth of a current criticism.

   Naturally some social effect resulted from this measure
of success -- an effect, however, which, with my habitual

want of tact, I took but little advantage of. One incident

connected with the social effect is described in a letter to
Lott. Here is the passage :--

  " I doubt not you would have greatly enjoyed being a party

to the badinage that has been carried on at my expense by
Chapman and Miss Evans (the translatress of Strauss) for
these two months past. They have taken upon themselves to
choose me a wife; and the various arrangements and delays
in effecting an introduction have, as you may suppose, afforded
subject-matter for much mirth. The affair was put into their

heads by the inquiry the young lady made as to the author
ship of " Social Statics " --whether Herbert Spencer was a

real or an assumed name, &c, &c. So on the strength of the

lady's admiration for the book, and all other circumstances

seeming as they thought suitable, I was startled by the infor

mation that they had found a wife for me. Some fortnight

or three weeks ago the introduction took place. I cannot

say that my inclinations at all indorsed their theory. My
objection--at least the chief one-- is a somewhat unusual one.

The young lady is in my opinion too highly intellectual ; or I

should rather say--morbidly intellectual. A small brain in

a state of intense activity, is the best description. Moreover

Ishe seems pretty nearly as combative as I am; and has,

422

JEt. 28-30]  MY FIRST BOOK

seem as if she could laugh. So that though she is sufficiently
good-looking, young, extremely open, a poetess and an heiress,

I do not think that the spirit will move me."
   As I learned afterwards, the lady, too, was not favour

ably impressed. Probably she came with high anticipa
tions and was disappointed: looking for intellectual
coruscations and meeting with nothing but common
place remarks. Most people frame very untrue, and often
very absurd, conceptions of those who write books. They
expect to find them differ from average persons in con

spicuous ways. One may say that as a rule no man is

equal to his book, though there are, I believe, exceptions.
All the best products of his mental activity he puts into

his book ; where they are separated from the mass of
inferior products with which they are mingled in his
daily talk. And yet the usual supposition is that the un-
selected thoughts will be as good as the selected thoughts.

It would be about as reasonable to suppose that the fer

mented wort of the distiller will be found of like quality

/with the spirit distilled from it.

   Nor is it only in respect of intellectual manifestations
that too much is looked for from authors. There are also
looked for, especially from authors of philosophical
books, traits of character greatly transcending ordinary
ones. The common anticipation is that they are likely
to display contempt for things which please the majority
of people. This remark is suggested, not by anything
which occurred in 1851 or thereabout, but by incidents

of some thirty years later, of which I am reminded by

the incident narrated above. These, though out of place

in respect of date, I may perhaps better set down here

than elsewhere. One concerns a Frenchman who,

             423

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [184S-50

brought by a member to the billiard room as the place

where, in the afternoon, I was most likely to be found.
Here he saw me engaged in a game ; and, as I heard

afterwards, lifted up his hands with an exclamation to

the effect that had he not seen it he would not have be

lieved it. The other concerns the American millionaire,
Mr. Andrew Carnegie, who in August, 1882, returning to

America by the Scrvia in which I was going, brought a

letter of introduction to me ; and who afterwards told me

how greatly astonished he was during our first meal on

board to hear me say --" Waiter, I did not ask for
Cheshire; I asked for Cheddar." To think that a phil

osopher should be so fastidious about his cheese !

   The identification of philosophy with stoicism still pre

vails very generally, and continually crops up in unex

pected ways and places.

424

                 CHAPTER XXII.

                 AN IDLE YEAR.

           1850--51. Mt. 30--31.

   Sometime in the spring of 185 1, when dining in com

pany with him at Mr. Wilson's, I was congratulated by

Mr. W. R. Greg on the success of Social Statics; and

thereupon greatly surprised him by the remark that after

all, the result achieved seemed scarcely worth the trouble
of achieving it. Had there been reason for dissatisfac

tion with the reception given to the book, such a feeling

would not have been unnatural ; but under the actual

circumstances it seems strange that it should have

arisen.

  Did a pessimistic view of life cause it? Was it that I

had contemplated men's various ambitions, the struggles

they prompt, and the disappointments which usually

follow, even when they succeed? I think not. Though

one who was inclined to take gloomy views of things,

and who contended that few ends we strive for are worth

the labour expended in attaining them, might reasonably

have included the writing of a successful book among
these; yet I do not think that my experiences prompted
Iany such view.
                 cannot assign any cause ; but merely

recognize this mood of mind as probably having had

something to do with my comparative inactivity during

the year.

                 425

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

   Of anything to be called work, beyond that which my
official duties entailed, I can recall little more than the

revision of Social Statics. The book was going off well ;

and there was expectation that a second edition might be

called for. Though I had spent a great deal of labour on

the manuscript and the proofs ; yet while there remained

a possibility of improving the expression, I was not con

tent to let the book be reproduced without correcting it

afresh. I obtained a set of unbound sheets, and in the

course of the spring and summer went through them.

Often putting one in my pocket and sallying out into the

country, I broke my walk every now and then by lying

down in some sheltered or shady place and castigating a

few pages. Among my papers I believe there still exists

the set of sheets thus revised. Inspection makes it mani
fest that the great aim was condensation -- abridgment

being here and there made by the omission even of a

syllable.

  Of serious occupation, if it may so be called, I am

reminded of one further example by a letter to Lott,

from which the following is an extract :--
  I" have taken to the study of bones. Which being inter

preted means that I am attending a course of Professor
Owen's lectures on Comparative Osteology. I am much
interested. I mean to make physiology [morphology, I

should have said] my special study ; bearing so much, as it

does, on several subjects with which I propose to deal."

   It seems not unlikely that the motive for wishing to

hear these lectures arose from the fact that their title was

suggestive of information bearing on the development

hypothesis, in which I was already deeply interested.

   One small addition to work done during the spring,

426

^t. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

Congregational Board of Education. The question was

whether I would permit the republication of the chapter
on State-education in Social Statics: Mr. Samuel Morley

(well known in later years as member of parliament for

Bristol) being prepared to defray the expense. I will

ingly assented ; and took the occasion to add a postscript

of a few pages enforcing the argument. The republished

chapter bore the paradoxical title --" State-Education

self-defeating." The interpretation of the paradox was

that any intellectual improvement gained is more than

counter-balanced by the moral deterioration caused by

absolving parents from a part of their responsibilities.

   I see, too, by references, that there was some reading at

the British Museum. Had not the proof come before me,

I should have denied that I ever in those days read there ;
and I was at first at a loss to know what was my motive.

A letter to my father of February 15, 1851, enlightened
me by the following sentences :-- " I enclose you some
memoranda I have been putting down at random in

connexion with my theory of population. They accord

with the conclusion I had previously arrived at on other

grounds." Subsequent references show that this was the

subject to which I was then chiefly devoting my atten

tion.

   The first two paragraphs of this chapter, descriptive of
my state of mind early in 1851, were written at a time
when my letters of that period were not accessible. On

consulting them I find that in large measure they bear

out the supposition which my remembrances suggested.
Indeed a quite specific statement of my views about life,
is contained in the following passage from a letter to my
friend, written on April 15.

                                             427

                       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                    [1850-51

" Talking of marrying reminds me that here I am a bache

lor still. I shall be        31 in  the course of a few days and so far
                                    as far from being " settled in life,"
as appearances go,           I am

                   is,

                        I

                                    a
                                                                                                             a
as the phrase      as was 10 years ago. Can't you give me

little advice? You as man of experience in such matters

ought surely to have something to communicate. However

do not know that should take your advice you gave it.
I
                            I
                                                              if

                                                                                              is
As for marrying under existing circumstances, that out of

the question; and as for twisting circumstances into better

shape, think       I it      too much trouble. As think you have
is                                       II
                         is                  I
  Iheard me say-- don't mean to get on.              don't think getting

           a
on worth the bother. On the whole am quite decided

not to be drudge and as see no probability of being able
                   ;                aI

to marry without being drudge, why have pretty well
                                                     I

given up the idea.                                   If as somebody said
   " After all does not much matter.
                                                     thing which whether
(Socrates, was not?) -- marrying                            pretty clear that

you do or do not you will repent,
it                                       is
         it                                  a
                                               it
            it it                                  is

you may as well decide by toss up. It's choice of evils,
                                    a                   a

and the two sides are pretty nearly balanced. Come now,

confess --  is     not true that in respect of happiness the differ
               it

ence between married and unmarried life not so great?
                                        I

                                                            it is
                                                                  is

                                                                   if
As far as my observation goes, cannot say that the Bene

dicks look bit better in the face than the bachelors."
            a

In succeeding paragraph, however,                          remarked
a

that this view might very possibly be changed                                                     due

cause arose.

That by no means undervalued the married state, but,
I

                                 a
                                            it

                                                 if :
contrariwise, looked forward to as one to be achieved,

was, indeed, shown in very odd way the evidence

being of an extremely exceptional kind,                    not, indeed,

unique.

   For sometime before, and for sometime after, the date

                                    428

Mr. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

been entertained by myself and sundry friends --Jackson,
Loch, Lott, and another residing in Derby-- the project
of emigrating to New Zealand. Prospects here were not
very brilliant for any of us ; and we discussed the matter
seriously. Books were read ; and the reasons for and
against duly weighed from time to time. Averse to un-
methodic ways of judging, it occurred to me that aid
might be had by making a rough numerical valuation of
the several ends in life which might be respectively better

achieved, these by staying at home and those by emigrat

ing; and that by adding up the numbers on each side,
totals would be obtained which would yield more trust
worthy ideas of the relative advantages than mere un

aided contemplation. Among my papers I find I have

preserved the estimates then made. Here they are.

               England                      New Zealand

              Advantages                       Advantages

 10 Greater domestic comforts     20 More agreeable climate
 10 Larger choice of society      40 Better health
 20 Excitement in Literature      30 Less anxiety
   6 Science                      35 More natural and therefore
 10 Art
 30 Intercourse with relations             happier occupation
                                  30 Eventually more spare time
   5 Theatres                     25 Ample provision for old age
   8 Music
   8 Politics                              and better prospect for
   3 Accessibility of Continent            family
                                 100 Marriage
1 10                                8 Literature
                                    3 Science
                                    6 Music
                                    4 Politics

                                 301

   The implication is decided enough. The relative values
assigned make it clear that a state of celibacy was far
from being my ideal.

  I may add that the scheme was gradually and silently

                                                  429

                             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                 [1850-51

abandoned by all except Jackson, who, unfortunately,

carried it out. A passage in the above-quoted letter to

Lott says that " Jackson has finally decided to go to New

Zealand in the autumn." Thinking that farming held out

better prospects than engineering, he took steps to fit

himself for
is                        and went into the country to get some

          Ilessons.

                     it,
" He left for Wokingham in Berks about week since, and
                                               a
                                                                     a
now, suppose, deeply absorbed in The Muck-Manual,

probably relieving his severer studies by getting                       few

wrinkles in the farm-yard respecting the weaning of calves

and the killing of pigs, interspersed by stray hints from the

dairymaid. New Plymouth      is   the settlement he thinks of

going to. He to marry before he goes. In fact                              his
I                                                          a
                         is
                                                                 it
                                                                       is
wish to bring his long-standing engagement to close that

has determined him to emigate."

have said above that the fulfilment of the scheme by

him was unfortunate. Not long after his arrival in New

Zealand, and while still undecided respecting his career,

he went with others on boating excursion out to sea.a
The boat capsized, and he was drowned. His death made
the first gap in my group of friends --took from me oneI it

associated in my memory with many happy days and, as
                                                           ;

may be supposed, was the more felt.    a         was felt, too, by

all who knew his worth. Though the world did not loseI It

in him bright intellect, yet lost fine nature.
      do not remember for what reason myself gave up
I

          a

the thought of emigration.             had originally proposed

that my father and mother should go also but they were
                                       a

                                                        ;
too far advanced in life. Probably chief deterrent from

the scheme, was the consciousness that for an only child

to go to the Antipodes and leave parents alone in their

declining years, would be cruel.

                             43°

Mt. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

   After a changeful history, The Westminster Review

had, about this time, by the losses it entailed on its imme

diate supporters, tired them out. During its earlier days
it had been kept afloat by subsidies from Sir William

Molesworth and Mr. J. S. Mill ; the last of whom, him

self a large contributor to its pages as well as to its funds,

for a long time played the part if not of nominal editor

yet of actual editor. The last editor under the superin
tendence of Mr. Mill was Mr. Robertson. At a later
period the Review was bought by Mr. Hickson ; and an
endeavour was made by lower rates of payment to con

tributors, as well as, probably, by gratis articles, to make

it meet its expenses. Though still owned by Mr. Hick-
son, it was at the beginning of 1851, edited by Mr.

Slack.
   In the spring of that year negotiations were opened for

sale of it to Mr. Chapman ; and by the middle of May,
the negotiations were so far advanced that Mr. Chapman

was making his arrangements, and casting about for con
tributors. In a letter to my father dated May 21, a

passage concerning this matter runs as follows:

   " Chapman (I tell you this in confidence) is about to have
the Westminster Review. It will come into his hands at the

end of the year. Chapman has twice proposed to me to

write an article for the January number. The first time he

proposed the population question on which he knows my

views. But I declined on the ground that I wished to make
it the subject of a book. His second proposal, made to-day,
I have thrown cold water on by telling him that agreeing to
get an article ready for the 1st Jany would interfere with
the population book, which I intend to begin as soon as I

have revised Social Statics. Mr. Greg in a letter which

Chapman showed me about the management of the West

            431

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

contributor ; but I do not feel inclined to sacrifice my existing

projects."

I find the sentence in a subsequent letter --
  "He (Chapman) has been wanting me to write him an

article on the suffrage for the Jan. No, but I tell him I do
not think I am fitted to produce the kind of article he wants,

viz. a so-called practical one."

  Respecting the population question referred to above, I

may add that subsequent letters show that my prepara

tions for a book on it had advanced further than memory

led me to suppose. There is mention of a programme

which I was drawing up ; and the answer to one of my

father's questions, written late in the autumn, is--" I

shall finish the skeleton before sending it [to you] : There
will be some 20 odd chapters."

   The year 1851 was the year of the Great Exhibition;
and the first of May brought the opening by the Queen.

In my journalistic capacity I had free admission, but

made no use of it on that day : neither then nor at any
time caring to be a spectator of State-ceremonies or

royal pageants. Next day, however, I promptly availed

myself of my entrance ticket; and thereafter many days
and half days were passed with pleasure and profit in

studying the arts and industries of the various European

peoples. Exhibitions, more or less extensive, have now

become common things ; but at that date nothing of the

kind had been seen. Of course the interest excited far

exceeded any interest excited at present. As the season

advanced, a good deal of time was spent in playing the

guide to country relatives and friends.

  Here I am reminded of the divergent opinions which

were entertained concerning this industrial show and its

432

JEt. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

sanguine people who expected it to inaugurate a uni

versal peace. At the other extreme came Mr. Carlyle,

uttering fierce denunciations with all that power of lan

guage characteristic of him. And with these aberrant

judgments I may join one published in Blackwood's

Magazine; where a writer describing the impressions

supposed to be produced by the Exhibition on the Ghost
of Voltaire, makes him express the belief that the only

improvement worthy of note since his day was the lucifer

match !

One other incidental fact may be added. When the

Exhibition was about to be closed, it was suggested that

the iron and glass building used for it should be retained

as a winter-garden. Londoners at large would have de

rived great advantage had it been made permanent; for

not only as a winter-garden would it have been available,

but also as a charming promenade in wet weather at all

parts of the year. The owners and occupiers of houses

in Prince's Gate and the immediate neighbourhood, how

ever, gave a determined opposition to the proposal.

Though it could not be said that the building was an

eyesore, yet it was clear that were a winter-garden made
of the traffic along the Kensington road would be, on
it,
             a

                                         a
                                                                        is
                                                                                                   a
Sundays and holidays, greatly increased. Notwithstand

ing the comparatively small number of those whose inter

ests were thus adverse to the project, they prevailed.

The building was pulled down; and millions of people

were deprived of refining pleasure.

The fact furnishes another illustration of the truth,

often illustrated, that  small body of men deeply

interested and able easily to co-operate,  more than

match for vast body of men less deeply interested and

unfavourably circumstanced for co-operation.

             29 433

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

  When, in the last chapter, I remarked that I failed to

take advantage of such opportunities as occurred of

widening my social relations, I forgot an all-important

exception. There resulted one intimacy which had

marked effects on my life.

   A generation earlier, a conspicuous part had been
played in public life by Mr. William Smith, for many
years member of parliament for Norwich. His were the

times during which immense sums were lost over con
tested elections; and he is said to have spent three for
tunes in this way: not for the gratification of personal
ambition, but prompted by patriotic motives. For, him
self a Unitarian, he was the leading representative of the

much-oppressed dissenters ; and it was he who, by un

tiring efforts, finally succeeded in obtaining the abolition
of the Test and Corporation Acts. Various of his de
scendants have been conspicuous for their public spirit,
philanthropic feeling, and cultivated tastes. From the

eldest son, his father's successor in Parliament, descended

Mr. Benjamin Leigh Smith, whose achievements as an
Arctic explorer are well known, and Madame Bodichon,
of note as an amateur artist, and active in good works.
One of the daughters became Mrs. Nightingale of Lea
Hurst ; and from her, besides Lady Verney, came Miss

Florence Nightingale.
   Among the younger sons was Mr. Octavius Smith,

who might be instanced in proof of the truth--very gen
eral but not without exception --that originality is antag
onistic to receptivity. For having in early life been some
what recalcitrant under the ordinary educational drill, he
was in later life distinguished not only by independence
of thought, but by marked inventiveness --a trait which

434

JEt. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

proprietor of the largest distillery in England, he carried
on with certain Scotch rivals. Energetic in a high de
gree, and having the courage and sanguineness which
come from continued success, he was full of enterprizes :
sundry of them for public benefit. Partly because of the
personal experiences he had in various directions of the

obstacles which Governmental interferences put in the
way of improvement, and partly as a consequence of the
fact that being a man of vigour and resource he was not
prone to look for that aid from State-agencies which is
naturally invoked by incapables, he was averse to the
meddling policy ; much in favour then, and still more in
favour now. One leading purpose of Social Statics being
that of setting forth both the inequity and the mischief

of this policy, a lady who knew Mr. Octavius Smith's
views, planned an introduction; and this having been

made, there was initiated an acquaintanceship which
afterwards grew into something more.

  I have been very fortunate in my friendships ; and not

the least so in that with Mr. Octavius Smith. In later
years I owed to him the larger part of my chief pleasures
in life.

  Already I have named the fact that in the Spring ofa
1850, I met Mr. G. H. Lewes ; and that in the course ofit,

our walk home from a soiree, a conversation between us
produced mutual interest. When Social Statics came out
he spoke highly of both privately and in public as liter
ary editor of The Leader; and naturally when we met
again, further step was taken towards intimacy. As
we had many tastes and opinions in common, the intimacy
grew rapidly.

   When the summer came there resulted country excur

                                                  435

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

sions together -- the early ones being long Sunday rambles
in Wimbledon Park, Richmond Park, etc. : a companion
on the first occasion being Mr. E. S. Pigott, now Licenser
of Plays, and at that time interested in The Leader as
one who subscribed part of the capital. Later in the sea
son our excursions took a wider range. The longest of
them was up the valley of the Thames: --by railway to
Slough and thence on foot to Cookham, where we slept ;
next day we went along the Thames-bank by Marlow
and on to Henley, where our day's walk ended ; leaving
there on the Monday, we reached by the help of a coach

drive, Pangbourne, and eventually Goring, where we
stopped for the night ; and next day we walked as far
as Abingdon, whence we returned by railway. The ex
pedition was a memorable one for both of us; not only
because of its enjoyments, which were great, but also be
cause of its mental results. It was to the impulse he
received from the conversations during these four days,

that Lewes more particularly ascribed that awakened in

terest in scientific inquiries which is referred to in an
extract from his diary published in George Eliot's Life.
And in me, observation on the forms of leaves set going
a train of thought which ended in my writing an essay on
" The Laws of Organic Form " ; an extended exposition
of which occupies some space in The Principles of Biology.
Later in the autumn, Kent was the scene of another

ramble : Gravesend, Maidstone and Cobham being among

the places on our route. Lewes remarked at its close,

that the ramble had not been so rich in suggestions as
the preceding one ; but he had brought with him a

volume by Milne-Edwards, and in it for the first time I
met with the expression --" the physiological division of

436

<Et. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

is shown towards the end of Social Statics, yet the mode
of formulating it was; and the phrase thereafter played
a part in my course of thought.

   As a companion Lewes was extremely attractive. In
terested in, and well informed upon, a variety of subjects ;
full of various anecdote ; and an admirable mimic ; it was
impossible to be dull in his company. Now-a-days he is

chiefly known by the contributions to philosophy in his

Problems of Life and Mind; but his reputation was then
mainly that of an extremely versatile man-- a critic and
writer on general literature, a novelist, a dramatist, an
actor, an expositor of philosophy. This last combination
recalls a droll incident in his career. He delivered a
series of lectures on philosophy in the provinces; and,

among other places, in Edinburgh. There, after his last

lecture had been given, the play-bills announced The
Merchant of Venice, with Mr. Lewes in the part of Shy-

lock. The dramatic element in the performance was, I
doubt not, good ; and I dare say his dramatic faculty

justified the thought which he at one time entertained of
going upon the stage. But his figure was not sufficiently
impressive for many parts; and his voice was not ef

fective.

  I knew nothing in those days of his domestic life, or,

indeed, of anything concerning him beyond that which
our conversations disclosed. But alike then and after

wards, I was impressed by his forgiving temper and his

generosity. Whatever else may be thought, it is undeni
able that he discharged the responsibilities which de
volved upon him with great conscientiousness, and at
much cost in self-sacrifice, notwithstanding circumstances
which many men would have made a plea for repudiating
them.

                                                  437

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

   One result of my friendship with Lewes was that I
read some of his books. His first novel, Ranthorpc, he

spoke of disparagingly ; but of his second, Rose , Blanche,

and Violet, he entertained a better opinion. This I read.

So far as I remember it did not make upon me any
decided impression one way or the other. A more im
portant result, however, was that I read his Biographical

History of Philosophy, then existing in its original four-
volumed form, in the series of shilling volumes published

by Knight, who was one of the pioneers of cheap litera

ture.

   Up to that time questions in philosophy had not at

tracted my attention. On my father's shelves during the

years of my youth and early manhood, there had been a

copy of Locke's Essay which I had never looked into;
and as I had not utilized a book constantly at hand, it may
naturally be inferred that I had not troubled myself to

obtain other books dealing with the same and kindred

topics. It is true that, as named in my narrative of that

period, I had in 1844 got hold of a copy of Kant's Critique,
then, I believe, recently translated, and had read its first
pages : rejecting the doctrine in which, I went no further.
It is also true that though, so far as I can remember. I
had read no books on either philosophy or psychology, I

had gathered in conversations or by references, some

conceptions of the general questions at issue. And it is

no less true that I had myself, to some extent, speculated
upon psychological problems, --chiefly in connexion with
phrenology. The fact, already named, that I had in 1844

arrived at the conclusion long before set forth by Adam

Smith, that from the sympathetic excitement of pleasur

able and painful feelings in ourselves, there originate the

438

/Et. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

was somewhat given to the study of our states of con
sciousness ; and Social Statics, in which the sentiment of

justice is interpreted after the same general manner as
that of benevolence, and in which a good deal is said
concerning the development of the moral nature, shows

that the tendency to mental analysis had become pro

nounced. Still, I had not, up to 1851, made the phe

nomena of mind a subject of deliberate study.

  I doubt not that the reading of Lewes's book, while

it made me acquainted with the general course of philo

sophical thought, and with the doctrines which through
out the ages have been the subjects of dispute, gave me

an increased interest in psychology, and an interest, not

before manifest, in philosophy at large ; at the same time

that it served, probably, to give more coherence to my
own thoughts, previously but loose. No more definite

effect, however, at that time resulted, because there had
not occurred to me any thought serving as a principle of

organization. Generally, if not always, it happened that

a subject became interesting to me only when there had
arisen some original conception in connexion with it. So
long as it came before me as a collection of other men's

conclusions which I was simply to accept, there was usu
ally comparative indifference. But when once I had got
some new idea, or idea which I supposed to be new, re

lating to the subject, an appetite for its facts arose in me
as furnishing materials for a coherent theory. The ideas
which were to play this part in psychology, and eventu

ally in philosophy, had not yet arisen.

  One sequence of my intimacy with Lewes was that I

made the acquaintance of Carlyle ; to whose house Lewes

             439

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

tract from one of my letters to Lott, is conveyed my
impression of him.

  I" spent an evening at Carlyle's some fortnight

since. He is a queer creature ; and I should soon be
terribly bored with him were I long in his company. His

talk is little else than a continued tirade against the

" horrible, abominable state of things." (The undulating line
is meant to indicate his up and down Scotch emphasis.)
He was very bitter against the Exhibition, amongst other
things, and was very wrath at the exposure to the public of

such disgusting brutes as the monkeys at the Zoological
Gardens. He talks much as he writes, piling epithet upon
epithet, and always the strongest he can find. You would
hardly recognize him by the likeness you have. He has much
colour in his cheeks while your portrait suggests pallor. He

is evidently fond of a laugh ; and laughs heartily. But his

perpetual grumbling at everything and everybody is so pro

voking, and it is so useless to reason with him, that I do not
want to see much of him. I shall probably call to look at him

two or three times a year. His wife is intelligent but quite

warped by him. And for your wife's information I may state

that there are no 'little Carlyles.'"

   The anticipation that my intercourse with him would

be but small, was verified. My visits numbered three, or
at the outside four, always in company with Lewes ; and

then I ceased to go. I found that I must either listen to

his absurd dogmas in silence, which it was not in my

nature to do, or get into fierce argument with him, which
ended in our glaring at one another. As the one alterna

tive was impracticable and the other disagreeable, it re

sulted that I dropped the acquaintanceship. My course

440

Mr. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

what exceptional ; for his talk was so attractive from its
originality and vigour of expression, that many sought
the gratification given by these, and for the sake of the

manner disregarded the matter.
   Lewes used to say of him that he was a poet without

music; and to some, his denunciations have suggested
the comparison of him to an old Hebrew prophet. For
both of these characterizations much may be said. By
others he has, strange to say, been classed as a philos
opher! Considering that he either could not or would
not think coherently -- never set out from premises and
reasoned his way to conclusions, but habitually dealt in
intuitions and dogmatic assertions, he lacked the trait

which, perhaps more than any other, distinguishes the
philosopher properly so called. He lacked also a further
trait. Instead of thinking calmly, as the philosopher

above all others does, he thought in a passion. It would

take much seeking to find one whose intellect was per
turbed by emotion in the same degree. No less when
tested by various of his distinctive dicta and character
istic opinions, does the claim made for him to the name
of philosopher seem utterly inadmissible. One whose
implied belief was that the rule of the strong hand, hav
ing during early ages and under certain social conditions,
proved beneficial, is therefore good for all time, proved
by it how little he had got beyond that dogma which
children take in along with their creed, that human
nature is everywhere the same and will remain the same
for ever. One who sneered at political economy as the
" dismal science," implying either that the desires of men
working together under social conditions do not originate
any general laws of industrial action and commercial

            441

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                [1850-51

we recognize such laws or not ; or else that because the

study of such laws is uninteresting they may as well be

ignored ; betrayed neither the temper nor the insight

which befit the philosopher. One who grew blindly furi
                                                  On Liberty --one
ous*   ocvaeller dJouhtnilitMariilal'nsiswmor"k  pig-philosophy,"    who scorn
fully                                                               and thereby

identified the pursuit of utility with the egoistic pursuit

of material gratifications, spite of the proofs before him

that it comprehends the pursuit of others' welfare and

the exercise of the highest sentiments, displayed an in

ability to think discreditable to an ordinary cultivated

intelligence, much more to one ranked as a thinker. No

one to whom the name philosopher is applicable, could

have acquired that insensate dislike of science which he

betrayed ; and which, for example, prompted him in pur

suance of his school-boy habit of nicknaming, to speak
                 "                                           "
continually  of     Earth-flattener              Maupertuis      ;  as though

to have discovered the oblateness of the Earth's figure
was something discreditable. At the same time that he

was continually insisting upon the laws of this Universe

and the necessity for respecting them, he went on venting

his scorn against those who devote their lives to learning

what these laws are. Some of his dogmas, indeed, are

such as would, if uttered by a person of no authority, be

inevitably considered incredibly stupid ; as instance his

assertion that genius " means transcendent capacity of
taking trouble first of all:" the truth being that genius

may be rightly defined quite oppositely, as an ability to

do with little trouble that which cannot be done by the

ordinary man with any amount of trouble.
   Morally he was characterized by a large amount of

  * " Carlyle and Mrs. Carlyle: a ten years' reminiscence," by H. Lar-
kin. British Quarterly Review, July 1881, p. 73.

                    442

&r- 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

what he himself somewhere calls " the old Norse feroc

ity": one of the results being a combativeness so great

that, as I can myself testify, he would oppose his own

doctrines if they came back to him through the mouth

of another. Lewes told me that one afternoon,

having called and found him walking up and
down the garden with Arthur Helps, he heard, as he

approached them from behind, praises of George Sand

uttered by Carlyle ; and thereupon, as he joined them,

exclaimed -- " I am glad to hear you say that, Carlyle ;"

upon which Carlyle immediately began to revile her as
much as he had before praised her. Of course he was

perpetually led into such inconsistencies and perversities

by his love of forcible speech. The passion for making

points was so great that he could not bear to put the

needful qualification to any strong utterance, because the

effect would be partially lost ; and hence, notwithstand
ing all his talk about " the veracities," his writing was

extremely unveracious. Exaggeration is unveracity; and

one who perpetually uses the strongest epithets, which in

the nature of things are but occasionally applicable,

necessarily distorts his representations of things.

Naturally, with his constitutional tendency to antag

onism, his delight in strong words, and his unmeasured

assumption of superiority, he was ever finding occasion

to scorn and condemn and denounce. By use, a morbid

desire had been fostered in him to find badness every

where, unqualified by any goodness. He had a daily

secretion of curses which he had to vent on somebody or

something.

  Of course I do not mean to say that these traits of

character were not joined with admirable traits. Various

of those who knew him intimately, unite in representing

            443

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

him as having had a great amount of generosity and even
a great depth of tenderness, in his nature ; and his treat
ment of his relatives makes his constant self-sacrifice for
others' benefit undeniable. He illustrates a truth which
we do not sufficiently recognize, that in human beings,
as in lower creatures, tendencies of apparently the most

opposite kinds may co-exist. A dog, the moment after

displaying the greatest affection for his master, will with
no adequate cause fly at a stranger, or furiously attack
another dog inoffensively trotting by; and in a child
the whole gamut of emotions is not unfrequently run
through in a few minutes. Similarly with the more im
pulsive men, the manifestations of the destructive and
sympathetic feelings are sometimes strangely inter

mingled. Carlyle's nature was one which lacked co
ordination, alike intellectually and morally. Under both
aspects he was, in a great measure, chaotic. His ideas
of the world and mankind were never reduced to any
thing like rational order; and his strong emotions,
fretted into intensity by his own violent language, rose
into gusts of passion carrying him now this way and
now that: little if any effort at self-control being made,

but rather the rein being deliberately given to whatever
feeling was for the time uppermost.

   Doubtless his extreme irascibility and his utterance of

bitter and contemptuous speeches about almost every
body, were in part due to his chronic dyspepsia. But it
is made clear by his own account of himself in early life,
and by his mother's characterization of him, that he was
innately despotic and arrogant in extreme degrees. For
this reason his opinions on men and things would have to

be largely discounted, even were there not the reason

444

JEt. 30-31]         AN IDLE YEAR

thoughts and feelings, was unfitted for guiding his fellow

men.

The title of this chapter was chosen at a time when I

had nothing at hand to aid my memory; and though

reading the correspondence shows that I was doing more

than I supposed, the title  I is,on the whole, appropriate.

With but moderate diligence might, in the course of the

year, have written the small book on the population

question which contemplated, instead of merely collect
ing materials and arranging the argument. To the trivial
it a

       I
                 I
pieces of work named at the outset, has to be added only

piece, no less trivial, done at the close of the year;

which name not as in itself worth naming, but because

introduces an incident of moment.

In preparation for the first number of The Westminster

issued under his auspices, Chapman asked me to write,

for his quarterly review of contemporary literature,
notice of recently-issued edition of Carpenter's Prin
        of                         is
                                       a
               a
                                            I
                                                            Ia
ciples          Physiology, General and Comparative. This

agreed to do. In the course of such perusal as was

needed to give an account of its contents, came across

von Baer's formula expressing the course of development
through which every plant and animal passes -- the

change from homogeneity to heterogeneity. Though at

the close of Social Statics there  recognition of the

truth that low types of society in common with low types
of organisms, are composed of many like parts perform

ing like functions, whereas high types of society in

common with high types of organisms, are composed of

many unlike parts performing unlike functions, implying

that advance from the one to the other from uniformity
                                   is

                            445

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1850-51

phrase of von Baer expressing the law of individual de

velopment, awakened my attention to the fact that the

law which holds of the ascending stages of each indi

vidual organism is also the law which holds of the

ascending grades of organisms of all kinds. And it had

the further advantage that it presented in brief form, a

more graphic image of the transformation, and thus

facilitated further thought. Important consequences

eventually ensued. |

   Returning to the year's activities or rather inactivities,

I perhaps ought to say that though I did but little visible

work, there appears to have been done a good deal of

invisible work. A letter to my father dated September 1,
recalls a scheme, suggested I fancy by my excursions
with Lewes, which is described as follows :--

  " I have lately been jotting down ideas on all kinds of

topics which have been accumulating with me for years past,

and which, as being too unimportant for separate essays, I

mean some day to embody in a series of magazine articles
under the head of " Travel and Talk." The idea being to

develop them in a natural kind of way in the course of

conversation between some friends on a walking tour."

And in a letter of September 3, I find the following

further passage referring to the project: --

  " My proposed series of papers to be called T. and T. I
have projected mainly with the view of pecuniary profit, if I

should find that the demand for my literary aid should become

such as to enable me to relinquish my present position, as I

think it will by and by do. The prevalent notion that literary

men are not able to make a decent living, I find to be an
erroneous one. I find that 5 and 6 hundred a year are com

mon incomes obtained by the pens of men of no great original

talent. And if so, I do not think it unreasonable to expect

446

Mt. 30-31]  AN IDLE YEAR

greater expenditure of time than I now give to the Econ.

 and with the satisfaction of getting quit of part of the over
 whelming accumulation of thoughts which now bother me."

Again on September 22, along with an account of the
excursion made with Lewes up the valley of the Thames,

and evidently referring to something said during the ex

cursion, occurs the sentence --" They want me to write

some papers for the ' Portfolio ' of the Leader at a guinea

a column. What do you say?" [The Leader was like in
size to The Spectator.] Elsewhere, replying to a question,

I tell my father that I have declined to add my name
to papers written for The Leader, because I decline to

be identified with the socialistic views promulgated in it.

Concerning these contributions, which it was therefore

arranged should be anonymous, a subsequent letter

says :--

" Lewes and I have decided against the dialogue form for these

papers in the Leader. As they will be very miscellaneous
there has been some hesitation about the title; and it has
been decided to choose one which means nothing, but will
draw attention. It is to be --" The Haythorne Papers."

   The course of my life during 1851 closed pleasantly.
By arrangement with Mr. Hodgskin to do some of his

work if he would do some of mine, I got a greater length

of absence than four days ; and utilized it by passing a
week at home and going thence to spend Christmas with
the Potters at Hempstead near Gloucester, to which place
they had removed from Gayton Hall.

            447

                   CHAPTER XXIII.

                      A MORE ACTIVE YEAR.

                        1852. JEt. 31--32.

   Of things done this year the first worthy of naming

was an essay, insignificant in length but significant in
matter, on " The Development Hypothesis," published
in The Leader in March. For a long time entertained,
and becoming gradually more confirmed, my belief in
this was now avowed.

   To the allegation that no cases are proved of a new
species arising by progressive modifications, was op
posed the fact that the rise of a species by special cre
ation is absolutely unknown: the special-creation hy
pothesis simply formulates ignorance into a semblance
of knowledge. Moreover, while the assumed process
of special creation is not only unknown but cannot in the
last resort be rationally conceived, the process of devel

opment by successive modifications is one the nature of
which is everywhere exemplified in the visible changes

produced in organisms by changed conditions. It was

pointed out that other groups of phenomena, as those
which geometry presents, show us how, by a succession
of infinitesimally small changes, there is effected a trans
mutation of forms so great that the extreme terms seem
to have no conceivable relation to one another; and it

                                             448

Mt. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

organisms the most apparently unlike, may be con
nected by insensible gradations. Finally it was argued
that during the growth of a seed into a plant, or an ovum
into an adult animal, there takes place a metamorpho
sis no less complicated and no less marvellous than the
metamorphoses which the development hypothesis sup
poses to have taken place in successive generations
of organisms during millions of years; and that there
fore there is nothing unreasonable in the belief that there
have occurred in the second case, transformations simi
lar in their successions and degrees to those which we
see occur in the first. \

   In this essay there took a definite shape the germ out
of which originated the general system of thought elab

orated in subsequent years.

  In the last chapter it was said that I declined to write

for the first number of The Westminster Review, an

article setting forth the conclusions at which I had ar
rived concerning the law of population, because I wished

to reserve the subject for larger treatment in a book.

Late in the year, however, this decision was changed.

A letter to my father on December 9, contains the pas
sage :--

  " I have agreed to give Chapman an outline of my theory
of Population for the Westminster. I must set to at it

shortly to get it ready for the April number. I have thought

it safer to do this, as I can then proceed with the develop

ment of it at leisure, and need be under no fear of being

forestalled."

   The general idea elaborated    in   this essay,  which was
                                      Theory of     Population
published under the title--"    A

deduced from the General Law of Animal Fertility," had

            30 449

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

been entertained by me since 1847 at the latest, when I

remember propounding it to a friend: how long before,

I cannot tell. I had, as already indicated, been collect

ing materials for it early in 185 1; and writing it occu
pied me during January, February, and part of March,
1852. Its argument well exemplified several intellect
ual characteristics. There was the tacit belief that the
degrees of fertility of organisms, from the lowest to the

highest, are naturally determined and not supernaturally
designed; that is, are physically caused. There was the
implication that a certain law of multiplication holds

throughout: --the law being that the degree of fertility

is inversely proportionate to the grade of development;
as measured here by bulk, there by structure, there by
activity, and commonly by all of these. There was the
conclusion, drawn without hesitation, that in virtue of

this law, holding no less of man than of organic beings
at large, higher degrees of evolution must be accom
panied by lower rates of multiplication. And a further

characteristic trait was the tacit faith in a tendency

towards self-adjustment -- the movement of things to
wards equilibrium: in this case towards a balance be
tween rate of mortality and rate of reproduction. Obvi
ously these are all aspects of that developmental view

which had grown so dominant with me.
   From the following passages it will be seen that to

wards the close of the article, I came near to a doctrine

which eight years later initiated a transformation in the
conceptions of naturalists: --

   " From the beginning, pressure of population has been the
proximate cause of progress." (p. 501).

    " And here it must be remarked, that the effect of pressure

450

JEt. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

decreasing the ability to multiply, is not a uniform effect,

but an average one. . . . All mankind in turn subject

themselves more or less to the discipline described; they
either may or may not advance under it ; but, in the nature

of things, only those who do advance under it eventually
survive. . . . For as those prematurely carried off must,
in the average of cases, be those in whom the power of self-
preservation is the least, it unavoidably follows that those
left behind to continue the race, are those in whom the power
of self-preservation is the greatest --are the select of their

generation." (pp. 499-500).

   It seems strange that, having long entertained a be

lief in the development of species through the operation

of natural causes, I should have failed to see that the

truth indicated in the above-quoted passages, must hold,

not of mankind only, but of all animals ; and must every

where be working changes among them. If when human

beings are subjected by pressure of population to a
competition for the means of subsistence, it results that

on the average the tendency is for the select of their

generation to survive, so, little by little, producing a

better-adapted type ; then the like must happen with

every other kind of living thing similarly subjected to
the " struggle for existence." And if so, this must be

in all cases a cause of modification. Yet I completely

overlooked this obvious corollary-- was blind to the fact

that here was a universally-operative factor in the devel

opment of species. There were, I think, two causes for

this oversight.

   One was my espousal of the belief that the inheritance

of functionally-produced modifications suffices to explain

the facts. Recognizing this as a sufficient cause for

many orders of changes in organisms, I concluded that

             451

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                    [1852

are, it is true, various phenomena which did not seem

reconcilable with this conclusion ; but I lived in the

faith that some way of accounting for them would even

tually be found. Had I looked more carefully into the

evidence, and observed how multitudinous these inex

plicable facts are -- had I not slurred over the difficulties,
but deliberately contemplated them; I might perhaps

have seen that here was the additional factor wanted.

  A further cause was that I knew little or nothing

about the phenomena of variation. Though aware that
deviations of structure, in most cases scarcely appreci

able but occasionally constituting monstrosities, occur

among all organisms; yet I had never been led to think

about them. Hence there lacked an indispensable idea.

Even had I become distinctly conscious that the princi

ple of the survival of the select must hold of all species,

and tend continually to modify them ; yet, not recog

nizing the universal tendency to vary in structure, I

should have failed to recognize a chief reason why diver

gence and re-divergence must everywhere go on--why

there must arise multitudinous differences of species

otherwise inexplicable.

When recalling the doings of past years, I have some

times been at a loss to decide how it was, and when it

was, that I first entertained the thought of writing upon
Psychology. Had I been forced to say, I should have

said that the beginning of 1854  was the time, and  that
the composition of an essay on    " The Genesis of  Sci
ence " was the cause. I should have been quite wrong,

however. To my surprise, correspondence proves that

the design dates back to the beginning of 1852; and

that I had then reached some, at any rate, of the leading

452

JEt. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

ideas eventually set forth. A letter written to my father
on the 12th of March, 1852, contains the paragraph: --

   " I shall shortly begin to read up in preparation for my

' Introduction to Psychology.' Probably it will be the close

of next year before I have it ready for the press. I intend

it to be preliminary to a large work on Psychology, probably
extending to more than one volume. This introduction will
contain the general principles, and will foreshadow the char

acter of the book itself."

   The first sentence implies that the intention had arisen

some time before this date; for I speak of the work to

my father as though he had already been told of it. Prob

ably it was during my stay at Derby, at the close of the

preceding December, that I named the intention to him.
It is further manifest that there must already have been

reached the general conceptions eventually set forth;

since, otherwise, there would have been no thought of

" a large work on psychology probably extending to
more than one volume." A fortnight later, namely on the

25th, I wrote home --

   " I am just beginning to read Mill's Logic. This is my

first step towards preparing for my ' Introduction to Psy

chology ' which I mean to begin vigorously by and by."

    No further reference to the subject appears in the

correspondence until a letter of October 1, in which I find
the paragraph --

   " I am busy with the Psychology, and have drawn up an

outline of the section on the ' Universal Postulate.' "

   Thus it appears that the general interest in mental

phenomena indicated in the last chapter as having been

shown in sundry ways, and which I there inferred was

increased by reading Lewes's Biographical History of

             453

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY             [1852

stimulus, began to have results. It was there remarked,
that some original conception in relation to the subject
was needed to give me the requisite spur; and this re
quirement was, it seems, fulfilled much sooner than I

supposed.

  A matter of very different nature comes next to be
named -- something thoroughly practical following some-

ing quite theoretical. The long-standing arrangements
for the distribution of books, not inappropriate to a time

when the demand for them was small and the means of

communication undeveloped, had quite lost their fitness

in railways days and days of cheap literature. Dissatis

faction had, I presume, been growing; and about this

time began to take shape. Under the title-- " The Com
merce of Literature," Mr. Chapman published an article

upon the subject in The Westminster Review, in which he

described the trade-organization, and the coercive regu

lations by which it maintained the retailers' rates of

profit. The following sentences set forth the essential

points :--
   " A volume, the published price of which is 12s, is sold to

the trade in single copies at gs. . . . But should the pur

chaser take 25 copies at once, he is only charged for 24, at
8s 6d each, thus making a total discount allowed to the trade

of 33 per cent., which is therefore the amount paid by the

publisher for distribution, exclusive of the additional 10 per
...cent, retained by himself as his remuneration, when he is
employed by an author.       It appears, then, that when

the nominal price of a book is 12s, the publisher really gets

for it about 8s, leaving 4s to remunerate the agents who
place the book in the hands of the public."

There resulted a movement among authors, in which

                        454

JEx. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

I took an active part --indeed, as correspondence shows,
a more active part than I remembered. The following is

an extract from a letter to my father written in May: --

   " I have been very busy these two weeks past on this book

selling question. Never let it be said that one man can do but

little. The meeting held at Chapman's on Tuesday, and of

which I enclose a report, originated with my urging it upon
him, and going with him to call on the leading men. I have
marked some passages in his statement which I wrote for
him as also two resolutions. I declined taking any part in the

proceedings. The meeting will probably be fatal to the Book

selling Association."

   It was fatal -- to the system at least. Whether the

Booksellers' Association continued to exist, I do not

know. Dickens occupied the chair; and sundry men of

note took part in the proceedings. One of them was

Prof. Owen, who, I remember, made the statement that

when he wanted to publish a new book, the question with

him always was whether he could afford the entailed

loss. One incident of the occasion, perhaps worth nam

ing, is that before the meeting, a number of copies of

resolutions being required, Miss Evans and I undertook
the task of making them. I remember being struck with
her great rapidity in writing -- far exceeding my own.

She wrote at that time a very much larger and more mas

culine hand than that given as a sample in Mr. Cross's

life of her: a hand of something like double the size and

more sweeping in character.

  What were the immediate effects of the meeting I can

not recollect; but the ultimate effect was that the ques

tion between the authors and the booksellers was re

ferred to Lord Campbell as arbitrator. He gave a deci

             455

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

abolished such of the trade-regulations as interdicted
the sales of books at lower rates of retail profit than
those authorized.

   The free system worked in a way not altogether satis
factory. One would have thought that when it was
agreed by the trade, no longer to insist on the high per
centages above named, custom would have established
lower percentages. This, however, was not done in a
direct way. The old scale was continued; and the only
change made was that the retailer who sold at a lower
rate of profit, was no longer regarded as a black sheep,
and no longer obliged to get his supplies of books, when
he got them at all, in underhand ways. There conse

quently arose the now-established system of making

large discounts from the nominal prices. I speak of this

arrangement as unsatisfactory, because many persons

are misled by the nominal prices. If one who is not

much in the habit of buying books, sees a book adver

tised at twelve shillings, he is apt to be deterred by what

he thinks too high a price for his purse: either not know
ing, or not remembering at the moment, that he can
obtain it for nine shillings-- a price he would not have
hesitated to give had it been the price named.

   At the close of the last chapter, and again in the
foregoing section, there has occurred the name of
Miss Evans--then little known but now of world-wide

fame.

   My acquaintance with her dated back to midsummer

1 85 1. She was then visiting Chapman; and, while

partly occupied in seeing the Great Exhibition, was, I

suppose, partly occupied in discussing the arrangements

456

Mt. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

was proposed she should take part. In the autumn,
when preparations for the first number of the new series
of the Review were beginning, she came up to reside

permanently in Chapman's house ; and I then, and

afterwards, saw her from time to time at his weekly

soirees. As is implied by the reference to her at the

close of Chapter XXL, our relations had become

friendly before the end of 185 1 ; and by the time at which
the above-named meeting took place, there had arisen

the intimacy described in her correspondence with her

Coventry friends. A letter to Lott on the 23rd April
speaks of:--

   " Miss Evans whom you have heard me mention as the
translatress of Strauss and as the most admirable woman,

Imentally, ever met. We have been for some time past on

very intimate terms. I am very frequently at 'Chapman's and

the greatness of her intellect conjoined with her womanly
qualities and manner, generally keep me by her side most of

the evening."

   For some time before the date of this letter, the oc

casions of meeting had been multiplied by the opportu

nities I had for taking her to places of amusement. My

free admissions for two, to the theatres and to the Royal
Italian Opera, were, during these early months of 1852,

much more used than they would otherwise have been,

because I had frequently -- indeed nearly always -- the

pleasure of her companionship in addition to the pleas

ure afforded by the performance.

   In presence of so much that is familiar concerning her
powers and her character, as displayed in her works and

delineated in biographies, it seems scarcely needful for
me to say anything. Still, an account of her as she ap

            457

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

by the incidents of her later life, may be of value as con

tributing to a complete estimate.
    In physique there was, perhaps, a trace of that mascu

linity characterizing her intellect; for though of but the
ordinary feminine height she was strongly built. The

head, too, was larger than is usual in women. It had,

moreover, a peculiarity distinguishing it from most
heads, whether feminine or masculine; namely that its

contour was very regular. Usually, heads have here and
there either flat places or slight hollows; but her head

was everywhere convex. Striking by its power when in

repose, her face was remarkably transfigured by a smile.
The smiles of many are signs of nothing more than
amusement; but with her smile there was habitually

mingled an expression of sympathy, either for the person

smiled at or the person smiled with. Her voice was a

contralto of rather low pitch and I believe naturally
strong. On this last point I ought to have a more defi

nite impression, for in those days we occasionally sang
together; but the habit of subduing her voice was so

constant, that I suspect its real power was rarely if ever

heard. Its tones were always gentle, and, like the smile,

sympathetic.
   These traits of manner resulted from large measures

of both the factors which prompt altruistic feeling--
the general sympathies and the domestic affections. The

activity of these last largely conduced to the leading in
cidents of her subsequent life. That from her general

sympathies resulted a great deal of the enthusiasm of

humanity, scarcely needs saying. They also caused a
desire to feel at one with society around. The throwing

off of her early beliefs left her mind in an attitude of an

458

/Et. 31-32]             A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

a temporary feeling: her natural feeling was a longing
to agree as far as possible. Her self-control, leading to

evenness of temper was marked. Only once did I see

irritation, not unjustified, a little too much manifested.

Conscientious and just in all relations and consequently

indignant against wrong, she was nevertheless so tol
erant of human weaknesses as to be quickly forgiving;

and, indeed, was prone to deprecate harsh judgments.

This last trait was I doubt not in part caused by con

stant study of her own defects. She complained of be
ing troubled by double consciousness --a current of self-

criticism being an habitual accompaniment of anything
she was saying or doing; and this naturally tended
towards self-depreciation and self-distrust.*

   Probably it was this last trait which prevented her
from displaying her powers and her knowledge. The

discovery of these had to be made gradually and inci

dentally. How great both were there is now no occasion
to tell anyone. An extraordinarily good memory and

  * Most active minds have, I presume, more or less frequent expe
riences of double consciousness --one consciousness seeming to take note

of what the other is about, and to applaud or blame. Of late years va

rious evidences  have   made me lean     more  and  more to   the belief in what
has been called          duality of the  mind  :"   implying  the ability of the
                 " the

two hemispheres of the brain to act more or less independently. Dreams

have several times presented me with phenomena which, on any other

hypothesis, seem inexplicable ; and some few years ago a seemingly-

conclusive experience occurred to me. Awaking one morning sufficiently

Ito be conscious that was awake, I nevertheless continued to dream, and

for a few moments my waking consciousness watched my dreaming

consciousness. Sundry analogies support the suspicion that the func

tions of the two hemispheres are specialized. A limited specialization

has been clearly proved to exist, and it seems to me likely that there is

a wider specialization : one hemisphere perhaps taking the more complex

co-ordinations of ideas and the other the simpler co-ordinations, and the

two co-operating. May there not possibly be a bi-cerebral thinking, as

                        459

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

great quickness of apprehension made acquisition of
every kind easy; and along with this facility of acquisi
tion there went an ability to organize that which she
acquired, though not so great an ability. For her con

structive imagination, remarkably displayed though it
was in the creation of characters and the representation
of mental states, did not serve her so well in other direc

tions. She did not devise satisfactory plots; and her

speculative faculty was critical and analytic rather than
synthetic. Even as it was, however, her philosophical

powers were remarkable. I have known but few men
with whom I could discuss a question in philosophy with

more satisfaction. Capacity for abstract thinking is
rarely found along with capacity for concrete represen

tation, even in men; and among women, such a union

of the two as existed in her, has, I should think, never

been paralleled.

  In early days she was, I believe, sometimes vivacious;
but she was not so when I first knew her, nor afterwards.

Probably this was the reason why the wit and the humour

which from time to time gave signs of their presence,

were not frequently displayed. Calmness was an habit

ual trait. There was never any indication of mental ex
citement, still less of mental strain; but the impression

constantly produced was that of latent power --the ideas

which came from her being manifestly the products of
a large intelligence working easily. And yet this large
intelligence working easily, of which she must have been
conscious, was not accompanied by any marked self-

confidence. Difference of opinion she frequently ex

pressed in a half apologetic manner.

   It was, I presume, her lack of self-confidence which

460

/£t. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

should write novels. I thought I saw in her many, if
not all, of the needful qualifications in high degrees --

quick observation, great power of analysis, unusual and
rapid intuition into others' states of mind, deep and
broad sympathies, wit and humour, and wide culture.
But she would not listen to my advice. She did not

believe she had the required powers.

   In the course of the spring the name of Comte came

up in conversation. She had a copy of the Philosophic

Positive, and at her instigation I read the introductory
chapters or " Exposition." As may be inferred from

what has been said in past chapters, the task was not

an easy one. Such knowledge of French as I had gained

by scrambling through half-a-dozen easy novels, con

tent to gather the drift, and skipping what I failed to
understand, was of course very inadequate. What I

thought about the doctrine of the three stages-- theolog

ical, metaphysical, and positive -- I do not clearly re
member. I had never considered the matter and was
not prepared either to deny or to admit. I believe I re

mained neutral. But concerning Comte's classification

of the sciences I at once expressed a definite opinion.
Here I had sufficient knowledge of the facts; and this

prompted a pronounced dissent. She was greatly sur

prised: having, as she said, supposed the classification

to be perfect. She was but little given to argument; and
finding my attitude thus antagonistic, she forthwith

dropped the subject of Comte's philosophy, and I read

no further.

   As the season advanced, our conversations were no
longer always indoors or at places of amusement.
Our most frequent out-door conversations occurred

             461

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

In those days, before the Thames Embankment was
made, the southern basement of Somerset House rose
directly out of the water; and the only noises on that
side came from the passing steam-boats. From end to

end, this basement is surmounted by a balustrade, and

behind the balustrade runs a long terrace: at that time
as little invaded by visitors as by sounds. The terrace
is shut off by a gate from one of the courts of Somerset

House. Chapman had obtained a key of this gate;
whether by favour or by some claim attaching to his
house, the back of which abutted on Somerset House,

I do not know. Frequently on fine afternoons in May,

June and July, she obtained the key; and we made our

way on to the terrace, where we paced backwards and
forwards for an hour or so, discussing many things.

   Of course, as we were frequently seen together, people
drew their inferences. Very slight evidence usually suf
fices the world for positive conclusions; and here the

evidence seemed strong. Naturally, therefore, quite
definite statements became current. There were re

ports that I was in love with her, and that we were

about to be married. But neither of these reports was

true.

   Here, d propos of a remark she made about me during

the Spring, I may, more fitly perhaps than elsewhere,
comment on a certain habit of thought which I described
in consequence of her remark. Social Statics having, I

presume, been referred to, she said that, considering how

much thinking I must have done, she was surprised to
see no lines on my forehead. " I suppose it is because I
am never puzzled," I said. This called forth the excla

462

Mt. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

heard uttered." To which I rejoined-- " Not at all,
when you know what I mean." And I then proceeded to

explain that my mode of thinking did not involve that

concentrated effort which is commonly accompanied by
wrinkling of the brows.

   It has never been my way to set before myself a prob

lem and puzzle out an answer. The conclusions at which

I have from time to time arrived, have not been arrived

at as solutions of questions raised; but have been ar

rived at unawares -- each as the ultimate outcome of a

body of thoughts which slowly grew from a germ. Some

direct observation, or some fact met with in reading,

would dwell with me: apparently because I had a sense
of its significance. It was not that there arose a distinct

consciousness of its general meaning; but rather that

there was a kind of instinctive interest in those facts

which have general meanings. For example, the de

tailed structure of this or that species of mammal, though

I might willingly read about
            I

                               it,
                                                           it

                                                                             al
                              would leave little im

pression; but when met with the statement that,
most without exception, mammals, even as unlike as the

whale and the giraffe, have seven cervical vertebrae, this
would strike me and be remembered as suggestive. Apt
as thus was to lay hold of cardinal truths, would
aI
happen occasionally that one, most likely brought to

mind by an illustration, and gaining from the illustra

tion fresh distinctiveness, would be contemplated by me

for while, and its bearings observed. A week after

wards, possibly, the matter would be remembered; and

                            it,

                                     I
                                                          a
                                                                           al
with further thought about    might occur recogni

tion of some wider application than had before per

ceived: new instances being aggregated with those

            463

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

perhaps of half a year, something would remind me of

that which I had before remarked; and mentally run

ning over the facts might be followed by some further
extension of the idea. When accumulation of instances
had given body to a generalization, reflexion would re

duce the vague conception at first framed to a more
definite conception; and perhaps difficulties or anom
alies passed over for a while, but eventually forcing
themselves on attention, might cause a needful qualifica
tion and a truer shaping of the thought. Eventually
the growing generalization, thus far inductive, might
take a deductive form: being all at once recognized as
a necessary consequence of some physical principle --
some established law. And thus, little by little, in unob
trusive ways, without conscious intention or appreciable

effort, there would grow up a coherent and organized
theory. Habitually the process was one of slow un
forced development, often extending over years; and it

was, I believe, because the thinking done went on in

this gradual, almost spontaneous, way, without strain,

that there was an absence of those lines of thought

which Miss Evans remarked -- an absence almost as

complete thirty years later, notwithstanding the amount
of thinking done in the interval.

  I name her remark, and give this explanation, partly

to introduce the opinion that a solution reached in the

way described, is more likely to be true than one reached

in pursuance of a determined effort to find a solution.
The determined effort causes perversion of thought.
When endeavouring to recollect some name or thing

which has been forgotten, it frequently happens that the
name or thing sought will not arise in consciousness;

464

/Et. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

often suggests itself. While thought continues to be
forced down certain wrong turnings which had origi
nally been taken, the search is vain; but with the cessa
tion of strain the true association of ideas has an oppor
tunity of asserting itself. And, similarly, it may be that
while an effort to arrive forthwith at some answer to a

problem, acts as a distorting factor in consciousness and
causes error, a quiet contemplation of the problem from
time to time, allows those proclivities of thought which
have probably been caused unawares by experiences, to
make themselves felt, and to guide the mind to the right
conclusion.

   It is with the multitudinous incidents of daily life as

it is with the multitudinous seeds of a plant: almost all
of them end without progeny. But, occasionally, an in
cident differing in no conspicuous way from the barren

ones, becomes the parent of some important series of
events. Already the preceding two years had furnished

sundry examples; and now came another.
   When agreeing to publish the " Theory of Popula

tion " in The Westminster Review, I stipulated with

Chapman that a small edition should be struck off from

the type, and that two months after the first appearance

Iof the article, should be allowed to republish it as a

pamphlet with my name. This was done; and in June,

when it was thus republished, I distributed a number of

copies to leading men: acknowledgments being, of

course, the only apparent results. With a copy sent out
later, however, the result was different. Among those
who attended the meeting of the British Association in
1852, was a biologist then known to but few, Mr. T. H.
Huxley. One of the medical staff at Haslar, his scien

                  31 465

      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                          [1852

tific proclivities had caused his appointment to the post

of assistant surgeon on board the Rattlesnake, when its

officers were commissioned to make a survey of the
" inner passage " on the Eastern coast of Australia. The

Rattlesnake had recently returned ; and Mr. Huxley was

then waiting until there came the needful grant, en

abling him to publish the results of his researches.

Among the papers read at the meeting of the Associa

tion, was one by him concerning certain of the oceanic

Hydrozoa; and some of the facts stated in                I it,  appeared

to support the arguments contained in thej'-lheory of

Population," &c. was consequently prompted to send
      I

                I
him copy of the pamphlet; accompanied, presume,
a
   a
by letter. The result was that he called on me at The

Economist office, and that returned his call at his lodg

ings in St. John's Wood. There thus commenced an
acquaintanceship, growing presently into friendship,
                                                         a

which became an important factor in my life.

Professor Huxley              is  so well and widely known

through the various official functions he has discharged,

by his lectures and addresses, by his scientific papers,

and by his books and essays on various subjects, that

would be absurd for me to say anything about him in
a it

                           a

                        I
his public capacity. will remark only that he furnishes

disproof of that belief, held by the great majority of

people, that man can be good only in some one de

partment of thought or action adopted as speciality.
He, contrariwise, lends some colour to the dictum --  is
quite untenable, however --that genius                    aa
                                                              unit, and,

where exists, can manifest itself equally in all direc
      it

                                                a
tions. While so omnivorous as reader that nothing
                                                   a

comes amiss to him from fairy tale to Biblical criti
                                                      a

                                  466

JEt. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

as a thinker: receptivity and originality being in him

associated, though very frequently divorced.

To those who know him simply as a scientific lecturer

and writer, he presents only the graver side of his char

acter; though reports of his after-dinner speeches might

show even these that he has a fund of humour. To his

friends, however, he is known as a sayer of good things

--some of them things which, though forgotten by him
self, are remembered by others. A witticism of his at my

expense has remained with me these twenty years. He

was one of a circle in which tragedy was the topic, when

my name came up in connexion with some opinion or

other; whereupon he remarked -- "Oh! you know,

Spencer's idea of a tragedy is a deduction killed by a

fact." On another occasion Lewes gave him an opportu

nity. I had invited some half dozen leading men to meet

an American friend at dinner. In the course of the even

ing a conversation arose about habits of composition:

some describing the difficulty they had in getting into

the swing of and others saying they found easy atit,
the outset. Lewes, one of the last, said-- " never hesiis
                                              II

                                                     it
tate. get up the steam at once. In short, boil at low
temperatures." " Well, but," remarked Huxley, " that
I

     a
implies vacuum in the upper regions."

There are two faults he has which ought to set down,
                    is
                               is

                                I
                                      I

                                                          a

                                                         I
however. One that he too yielding.            do not mean
             what Emerson somewhere calls " mush of
that he  is

concession": far from it. He about the last man

should think of as likely to give up the point in argu

ment, or be persuaded to abandon a course he had de

cided upon. Nevertheless, thereif           sense in which he
                                  is

                                       a
                                          is
is, as say, too yielding. For he asked to under
I

                    467

       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                              [1854

with a view to public benefit, he has difficulty in saying
no. The temptation to assent is commonly too much

for him.
   The other fault, naturally a sequence of the first, is

that he habitually works too hard; for of course each of
these concessions from time to time made, brings an

addition to the burden of engagements. I have some

times described him as one who is continually taking
two irons out of the fire and putting three in ; and neces
sarily, along with the external congestion entailed, there

is apt to come internal congestion. A heavy adverse

balance accumulates in Nature's ledger, which has to be
settled sometime and somehow; for Nature is a strict

accountant.

  But how can I comment on this undue yieldingness

and undue devotion to work which follows it; having
myself often sinned by betraying him into them? Many
a time he has been occupied in giving me the benefit of
his criticisms, when there needed, instead, some relaxa
tion or amusement.

   In  the last chapter but one,  I have   referred  to an essay
on "   Force of Expression "              had been
                                  which               written, I

think, about the beginning of 1844, and had been de

clined by the editor of a periodical to which I sent it --
Tail's Magazine, I believe, now long since deceased. I

cannot remember what it was which first turned my

attention to the subject of style; but it is probable that

some hypothesis suggested to me by a few instances,

prompted that reading of books on composition which I

entered upon, and found nothing satisfactory -- nothing

but dogmas and empirical rules, which of course did not

       468

Mr. 31-32J           A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

resulted from the study which followed, an attempt to

explain the general cause of force in expression.

This essay, or rather a revised and developed version

of proposed for The Westminster Rtrview; and, occu
iIt,

      it
pying part of the early autumn in re-writing
                                            it                    pub
                                                             it,
lished         in October; after re-naming     " The Philoso

phy of Style." The change was not of my desiring, but

resulted from the editorial wish to have something more
taking than " Force of Expression." As had been thus
                                            a

                                              I
prompted to use too comprehensive title, was half
                                                 it

amusing half annoying to hear from the editor after its

publication, the criticism that the essay contained only

the backbone of the subject.  I It     was only the back

bone of the subject with which professed to deal, and

which the original title covered.

Few would expect to find such subject as style dealt
                                   a

with on physical principles. The first of the two theses

set forth and variously illustrated, was that nervous en

ergy    is is  used up in the interpretation of every one of

the symbols by which an idea       is  conveyed; and that

there greater or less expenditure of such energy ac

cording to the number of the symbols, their characters,

and their order: the corollary being that in proportion as

there less energy absorbed in interpreting the sym
        is
                 is  more left for representing the idea, and,
bols, there

consequently, greater vividness of the idea. Otherwise

stated, this thesis was that the most successful form of

sentence one which guides the thought of the hearer
               is

or reader along the line of least resistance: every re

sistance met with in the progress from the antecedent

idea to the consequent idea, entailing deduction from
                                            a

the force with which the consequent idea arises in con

                     469

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1852

ment in the nervous system, like every other active ele
ment in the organism, is wasted by action, it follows that

each idea suggested, each conception framed, entails

some exhaustion -- now momentary, now more pro
longed -- of the nervous elements employed; and that
they are consequently for a shorter or longer time par
tially incapacitated for action --rendered less able than
before to produce in consciousness a feeling or idea like
that which they have just produced. And the corollary

drawn was that to achieve the greatest effect, the suc

cessive impressions must be so arranged that the earlier
ones shall not, by greatly taxing them, have so dimin
ished the sensibility of the structures brought into play,

as to render them partially insensible to those later im

pressions which are more especially to be appreciated.
   As is at once manifest, these theses are congruous

with sundry of the maxims which writers on style enun
ciate. That which the essay did was to reduce these
maxims from the empirical form to the rational form,
and to point out further applications of the principle
involved.

   Let me add that in its closing paragraphs occurred the
first sign that von Baer's formula, expressing the trans
formation passed through during the development of
every organism, was in course of extension to other
things. The essay ends with the statement that a per
fect composition will " answer to the description of all
highly-organized products, both of man and of nature:
it will be, not a series of like parts simply placed in jux
taposition, but one whole made up of unlike parts that
are mutually dependent "-- (the conception of progress
set forth in Social Statics, pp. 451-55). And on the ad

470

*r. 31-32]      A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

that progress in style " must produce increasing hetero
geneity in our modes of expression."

  Of minor things written during the year, I may here
mention sundry of the Haythorne Papers --" Use and

Beauty," " The Development Hypothesis," already

named, " The Origin of Architectural Types," " A The

ory of Tears and Laughter," " Gracefulness."

   To complete the account of the year I must add some

of the secondary incidents which gave the seasoning to

my daily life.

   Two of my weekly vacations were spent at the sea

side; and, later on in the season, I had a few pleasant

days with Miss Evans's friends, the Brays, at Coventry;

who, as well as Miss Hennell, thereafter became friends

of mine. There were, too, some more summer rambles

with Lewes --one of them being in Windsor Park and

its neighbourhood, where we spent two days in saunter

ing and talking: a result being a brief essay by Lewes in
the " Portfolio " of The Leader, under the title -- " Amid

the Ferns."

   Beyond those already given in one or other connexion,

I find in letters a few passages of sufficiently impersonal

interest to admit of quotation.

  " I called on Leigh Hunt on Tuesday. I like him much. I

am to go and take tea with him shortly. He has read S. S.

twice." (12th March.)

I may join with this the fact that he asked me to read

the MS. of his Religion of the Heart-- a work with the

aims of which I felt much sympathy.                     of the
   " I was at the ceremony of raising the first column
                                                         I saw
New Crystal Palace yesterday. It was a grand affair.

                471

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [185a

  pleasant time. The new palace will be magnificent -- far

  transcending the other." (August 6.)

    Since the season of 1851 I had known Mr. F. O. Ward,

 one of the active sanitary agitators of that day, who

 wrote the sanitary leaders in The Times. I had attended

 some of his literary breakfasts and met there sundry
 notabilities. He had a scheme for supplying London

 with water from certain gathering grounds near Farn-

 ham, and, in furtherance of his scheme, twice collected

 there groups of scientific men and others. I was at one
 of his parties: Louis Blanc, I remember, being among

 those present. Here is an account of another of them :--

    " I met Kingsley the other day --the author of " Alton

  Koche," " Yeast," the " Saint's Tragedy," &c. He is a capital

  fellow ; I might with propriety say a jolly fellow. We met

  at a pic-nic. No one would suspect him of being a clergyman.
  We had a great deal of talk together . . . He is evidently a
  man of immense energy. He seems to have so much steam

 that he can scarcely sit still. He said that if he could be

  doing something whilst asleep it would be a great gratifica
  tion. He stammers in conversation, but not, they say, in

 preaching. I do not know what to think of his opinions, nor

  does anyone else. He said amongst other things that he
I believed that man, as we know him, is by no means the highest

I creature that will be evolved. I took this as an admission of

  the development hypothesis ; but am not sure that he meant
 lit as such." (September 10.)

     " I have had an anonymous Christmas-box in the shape of
 a six-guinea microscope. It came on Christmas eve. I have
  been to the opticians but can only make out that it was paid
  for and ordered to be sent to my address by a gentleman of

  40 or 50, and that he requested that no answer should be

 given to any questions that might be asked. I am puzzled.
 It must evidently have been some one who knew either

472

,Et. 31-32]  A MORE ACTIVE YEAR

directly or indirectly that I was wishing for a microscope."

 (December 30.)

   I found good reason to conclude that the gentleman

of 40 or 50 was an intermediary: the donor knowing

that I should object to receive a present had it come in a

direct or avowed way.
   This incident did not go far, however, towards miti

gating certain saddening influences under which the
year closed for me. The nature of them will appear in

the course of the next chapter.

             473

               CHAPTER XXIV.

               LEAVE THE ECONOMIST.

               1853. Mr. 33--34.

Why did I continue so long to hold a subordinate place ?

Letters written shortly after accepting     it,imply that

                                                      I

                                                              I
originally regarded as place which very well served;" it
" present purposes and one of them dated April 1849,
said " shall probably retain my post until the completiona
and publication of my book." Two years had now elapsed
I

since its publication, and yet still remained where then
                                I

was.

During the autumn of the preceding year, however, the

propriety of taking step in advance became manifest:
               aI
the success of Social Statics, and of articles published in
                    a
The Westminster Review, being the warrant. In let
                                                          a
I:ter home dated 20 October 1852, there occurs the pas             is

sage --

   " am thinking of preparing an article for the Edinburgh
Review and getting Mr. Greg, who one of their chief con
                         It

                             is
                                      I is
tributors, to present it. The subject think of choosing
" Method in Education."
                                   considered by several of my

friends that am throwing away my time in my present
            I

position, and that might with less exertion make more

money by original contributions and at the same time have;
as much leisure for larger works. . . . This article for the
Edinburgh will be kind of experimental test of the safety of

the move."

                                474

-<Et. 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

And then a letter of the 27th, replying to one which ex
pressed disapproval of the step, contains the passage --

   " I have entertained the wish for the last year or more, and
have done nothing towards realizing it yet, because I did not
see my way. When I have tried the experiment with the
Edinburgh and the other quarterlies, I shall be in a position

to decide."

   My experiences as a rolling stone had, I doubt not, ren

dered me less ready to detach myself from a fixed posi

tion, and run the consequent risks, than I might other

wise have been. Consciousness that my official duties were

light in comparison with the drudgery which I might be
committed to did I enter upon an uncertain career, was
perhaps also a deterrent. The motive which, I believe,

chiefly prompted the wish to change, was not that of " get

ting on," in the ordinary sense, but that of obtaining the
" leisure for larger works " referred to above -- leisure

which seemed unobtainable while I remained sub-editor of

 The Economist. One of my letters names the estimate that

three days a week spent in review-article writing, would

suffice to give me a sufficient income for my modest

needs : leaving the rest of the week for writing the books

I contemplated. For a time, however, my caution over

ruled my ambition. 1852 ended, and a considerable por
tion of 1853 elapsed, without witnessing any overt step

in furtherance of my remoter aims; and I do not know

 how long such a step might have been postponed, in the

 absence of an event which introduced a new factor into

 my calculations.

   When will education include lessons on the conduct of
life? It is true that religious teachings and moral injunc
tions cover a part of the subject. It is true that many

              475

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

  some of them rightly, some without due reason. It is also

   true that men are exhorted to do many things which they

  dislike --now properly, now improperly. But these forbid-

   dings and commandings leave unnoticed a great variety of
   actions. There is much in the conduct of life which turns

  simply upon considerations of policy; and has to be

   settled by estimations of costs and values.

     I knew a gentleman -- a man of great energy, full of
  resource, and with high ideals --who built himself a coun
  try house. Liking to have everything done in the best way,

   which was often a new way, he would not permit the work

   to go on in his absence ; and he was able to be present only
   four or five months in the year. The result was that the
   house took ten years to complete. He, his wife, and adult
   family, were kept waiting for it some eight years longer
   than they need have been ; and he, being of good age at the
   time, had but some ten years' enjoyment of it before he
   died, instead of nearly twenty. Here, then, is an example

  of what I mean by error in the conduct of life.

y"I Is the game worth the candle? " is a question which

   should be often raised and well-considered. Multitudinous
  schemes are entered upon by men without counting the

   costs in time, in trouble, in worry ; and without asking
   whether what may be gained will duly compensate for
  what must be paid -- whether the amount of life absorbed
   in attention, thought, and effort, will bring adequate re
   ward in the achieved exaltation of life for self and others ;
  and whether some other expenditure of spare energy would
   not bring much greater returns of happiness, egoistic or

/ altruistic, or both. If means and ends were duly weighed

  against each other beforehand, many a one, for example,
   would decline to spend weary years of toil and anxiety in

476

-^t. 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

Ifsuccess.   he rightly estimated the value of the success
when achieved -- if he learned, as he might, how compara

tively small are the pleasures it brings, and how many are
the vexations and disappointments of those who labour on

the social treadmill, he would decide not to make the

required sacrifices.

   But by far the most serious, as well as the most general,
error which results from not deliberately asking which are

means and which are ends, and contemplating their

respective worths, we see in the current ideas about
the relation between life and work. Here, so pro

found is the confusion of thought which has, by a

combination of causes, been produced, that the means

is mistaken for the end, and the end is mistaken

for the means. Nay, so firmly established has become

the inversion of ideas, that that which, looked at

apart from the distorting medium of custom, is seen to

be a self-evident error, is, by nearly all, taken for a
self-evident truth. In this case their sacred and secular
beliefs unite in misleading men. " Work while it is called

to-day, for the night cometh when no man can work," is a

Scriptural injunction which, in the most unmistakable

way, implies that work is the end and life the means.
And daily conversations show that the industrialism of

modern life has so strongly associated the ideas of duty

and labour, that a man has come to be regarded as the

more praiseworthy the harder he toils ; and if he relaxes

greatly in his activities, it is tacitly assumed that some

apology or explanation is needed. But the whole thing is a

superstition. Life is not for work, but work is for life ; and

very often work, when it is carried to the extent of under
mining life, or unduly absorbing life, is not praiseworthy

                      477

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                [1853

ascending forms, we see that in the lowest creatures

the energies are wholly absorbed in self-sustentation and

sustentation of the race. Each improvement in organiza

tion, achieving some economy or other, makes the main

tenance of life easier; so that the energies evolved from

a given quantity of food, more than suffice to provide for

the individual and for progeny : some unused energy is

left. As we rise to the higher types of creatures having

more developed structures, we see that this surplus of

energy becomes greater and greater ; and the highest show

us long intervals of cessation from the pursuit of food,

during which there is not an infrequent spontaneous ex

penditure of unused energy in that pleasurable activity of

the faculties we call play. This general truth has to be

recognized as holding of life in its culminating forms --of

human life as of all other life. The progress of mankind

is,  under one aspect, means of liberating more and more
              a
                  is

                                          is
                                                   it
                                                                         is
life from mere toil and leaving more and more life avail

able for relaxation --for pleasurable culture, for aesthetic

gratification, for travels, for games. So little, however,
this truth recognized, that the assertion of will seem to

most paradox. The path of duty identified in their
       a
minds with devotion to work, quite beyond the amountis

which         needed for maintaining themselves and those

dependent on them and discharging their shares of social

obligations. So much this the case, that you may often

see busy man already half invalided by ceaseless toil,
     a

persisting spite of the expostulations of his family and

advice of his friends, in daily making himself worse by

over-application. Reduced to definite form, the concep
                       a

                                                           is
tion current among such may be briefly expressed in the

formula-- Business must be attended to: Life                   of

secondary importance.

                       478

jEt. 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

   Why do I introduce here these seemingly irrelevant

remarks ? I do it because they are relevant to the case of
my uncle Thomas, who illustrated the fatal results of this
wrong theory of life.

   In early days his constitution had been considerably
shaken by hard work at Cambridge. Letters which I have

recently re-read between him and my father, comparing
their symptoms, remind me that excess of study in
obtaining his wranglership and his fellowship, had estab
lished a state of ill-health like that which had been
established in my father by excess of teaching, though not
so extreme. And his nervous collapse, like nervous col

lapses in general, was never wholly recovered from ;

though he regained tolerable health.
   And now, when between fifty and sixty, his system,

unduly strained in preaching, lecturing and writing, be
gan to yield in serious ways. Already in the autumn of

1849, a severe bronchial affection rendered chronic by his

debility, had sent him to the hydropathic establishment at
Umberslade, then kept by Dr. Edward Johnson (a sen
sible physician who had written a popular work entitled

Life, Health, and Disease), who brought him round. No
due heed was taken of this broad hint, however. Writing
to my father on 24th January, 1852, my aunt says: --

    " He has been overtaxing his brain by writing, and public
meetings, so as hardly to allow himself proper time for his
meals."

Resulting head symptoms took him again to Umberslade,
where the causes of mischief were duly set before him,

and he was warned that rest was required to bring him

round. He was deaf to the advice, however. A letter of
mine of February 18th says: --

             479

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY            [1853

his work in spite of his evident unfitness, and on Friday last
he was seized with a partial paralysis of one side of the
face."

And this was accompanied by acute cerebral symptoms

which Dr. Bright, a distinguished physician of that day

whom I summoned, feared would end in apoplexy. He

struggled   through, however, and  in  a letter of 7th March
there are                          is
           the words --" My uncle      slowly improving. It

is now merely a matter of time."

  I see that when writing home while this attack was
impending I have remarked that --

" My uncle with his writing is just as bad as a drunkard

with his liquor. It is the only gratification he has, and he

cannot keep from it. It seems of no use talking to him."

Not only, as thus said, were expostulations useless ; but
experience also seemed to be of no avail. On recovering
from this attack which endangered his life, he partially
resumed his previous habits ; and, relapsing again in the
course of the autumn, was seized in December with a
complication of diseases which ended fatally before the
close of January, 1853.

   Thus prematurely ended a career which, but for these
errors in the conduct of life, might have lasted for another
twenty years ; with benefit to society and happiness to
himself in the furthering of it. But my uncle was one
of those in whom religious belief, current opinion, and

personal habit, united to confirm the tacitly accepted
notion that life is for work. Carrying to an extreme the
expenditure of energy in labours of one or other kind,
he had, as often happens in such cases, lost all taste for
other modes of occupying time and attention ; so that
when there came the need for relaxation, relaxation was

impracticable. Due participation in the miscellaneous

           480

*T. 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

pleasures of life, would have made his existence of
greater- value, alike to himself and to others.

   He was taken to Hinton to be buried ; and the profound
respect in which he was held there, was shown by the
fact that the parishioners spontaneously organized a
public funeral.

  Under my uncle's will, I was left co-executor with my

aunt. Of course the business of carrying out its pro

visions devolved almost wholly upon me, and much time

early in the year was occupied by it.

  By another clause my uncle bequeathed me £500. As I
was also named as one of three residuary legatees --my

aunt, my father, and myself --there eventually came to

me in this capacity a small addition.
   Being thus placed pecuniarily in a different position,

Ithe step had been contemplating no longer appeared so

questionable a one. With a considerable sum in hand,
there was manifestly much less risk in resigning the

sub-editorship of The Economist; and, consequently, in

April, I intimated to Mr. Wilson that I should not con

tinue to hold the post beyond the beginning of July.

   Meanwhile I took steps to extend my literary con

nexions. Through the good offices of Mr. Lewes and
Mr. David Masson -- now Professor at Edinburgh but

then resident in London --I established relations with The

British Quarterly Review and The North British Review:
the latter a since-deceased quarterly organ of the Free

Church.

   As indicated in a previous chapter, the title of one

division of the work on Psychology which I contem

plated was " The Universal Postulate." The subject

                  32 481

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                          [1853

matter to be dealt with under this title, was the ultimate

test withstood by those propositions which we hold to be

unquestionably true. Early in the year I agreed to pre

pare an article for The Westminster Review on the sub

ject.

  It was when reading the System of Logic of Mr. J. S.
Mill, that I was led to take, partly in opposition to him,
the view I proposed to set forth. In passages contro

verting the doctrine enunciated by Dr. Whewell, he had,

as it seemed to me, ignored that criterion of belief to

which we all appeal in the last resort ; and further, he
had not recognized the need for any criterion.

   This essay may be instanced as an early illustration of

that tendency towards analysis, which, in me, accom

panied the more predominant tendency towards synthesis.

Social Statics had exemplified this. Its general aim was
to disentangle and set forth that ultimate truth concern

ing social relations from which all special forms of

equitable arrangements may be deduced: there was a

process of analysis that there might be a more satis
                           too, with the " Theory of
factory synthesis. So was
               it
                                it,

                                                      I
Population, &c.," as set forth in the article already

named. Not by deliberate search, but incidentally, was

led to recognize the fact which may be asserted in com
mon of the rates of multiplication of living things. The

general law which analysis disclosed was that individua

tion and reproduction are antagonistic. And this being

the law analytically reached, there were reached, syn

thetically, certain conclusions respecting human popula

tion. Nor was  otherwise with the essay on the
" Philosophy of Style." Various empirical statements
and maxims about composition were current: -- Metaphor

               482

&r- 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

more effective than others ; words native to our tongue

produce impressions exceeding in vividness those pro
duced by words of Latin origin; the poetical form is

more forcible than the prosaic ; and so forth. Is there not

a common cause? was the question. And, as lately said,

analysis made it manifest that those are the most effective

modes of expression which absorb the smallest amount of

the recipient's attention in interpreting the symbols of
thought: leaving the greatest amount for the thought

itself.

   That this way of proceeding had been habitual with

me, is a fact of which I have only now become distinctly

conscious, on being prompted by observing that it is
exemplified in " The Universal Postulate," to go back

upon previous writings to see whether it was exemplified

in them. Again, as I say, not with conscious intention

but from unconscious bias, there occurs this search for an

ultimate element which gives community of character to

things superficially different. A weight falls on my toe,
and that I am pained is a truth of the highest certainty.

If I left three books on the table, and find but two on my

return, there results in me a conviction, which I cannot

change, that one has been in some way or other ab
stracted. While my eyes are suffering from the glare of

an electric light, no effort enables me to think that I am
then and there looking into darkness. A straight road is

made between two villages which before were united only

Iby a crooked lane, and find myself compelled to believe

that the new way is shorter than the old. I accept the

statement that action and re-action are equal and oppo

site, because no alternative is open to me. Here, then,

are beliefs in most respects of widely unlike kinds --be

            483

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                        [1833

sensation, a geometrical truth, a mechanical axiom --

which are nevertheless alike in their absoluteness. What

constitutes this absoluteness? What makes me ascribe to

them a certainty which is not to be exceeded ? I can give

no warrant for any one of them except that it cannot be

changed. The test by which, in the last resort, I deter

mine whether a belief is one I must perforce accept, is
that of trying whether it is possible to reject it--whether

it is possible to conceive its negation. In other words,

the inconceivability of its negation is my ultimate criterion

of a certainty. And that it is impossible by any process

of reasoning to get below this, is manifest on remember

ing that for acceptance of every step in a process of rea

soning, the warrant is that negation of it is inconceivable.

  I may remark as a curious fact that though, since the

time when this essay was written, various objections have

been made to the criterion of certainty set forth in no
                                                            a
other criterion has been proposed. Those who have              it,

demurred to the test have none of them contended for

any other test: the apparent implication being that they

think no test required. One might have supposed that
as needful preliminary to systematic discussion --

especially discussion concerning the nature of things --
a
              a

                   is
                                                   a

the disputants would agree on some method of distin

guishing propositions which must be accepted from

propositions which      possible to deny. May not one
                    it
                        is

                                                         a
fairly say that those who decline to accept                       test

proposed, and also decline to furnish test of their own,

do so because they are half conscious that their opinions

will not bear testing?

About this time rising man of science, then known
                    a

                        484

/Er. 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

duced a sensation by a lecture at the Royal Institution --

a lecture in which, in presence of Faraday who had de
nied the existence of dia-magnetic polarity, he proved

that dia-magnetic polarity exists -- I mean Mr. Tyndall,

soon afterwards made Professor Tyndall. In the course
of the Spring we were introduced by one who presently
became Professor Huxley.

   It is said of Keats that on one occasion after dinner, he

proposed some such sentiment, as " Confusion to New
ton." I say some such sentiment, because he was not

likely to wish confusion to a deceased man. But these
words indicate the feeling he displayed. The reason he
gave was that Newton had shown the rainbow to be
caused by the refraction of light through rain drops, and
had thus destroyed the wonder of it. Keats did but give

a more than usually definite expression to the current

belief that science and poetry are antagonistic. Doubt

less it is true that while consciousness is occupied in the
scientific interpretation of a thing, which is now and
again " a thing of beauty," it is not occupied in the
aesthetic appreciation of it. But it is no less true that

the same consciousness may at another time be so wholly

possessed by the aesthetic appreciation as to exclude all
thought of the scientific interpretation. The inability of
a man of science to take the poetic view simply shows
his mental limitation ; as the mental limitation of a poet
is shown by his inability to take the scientific view. The
broader mind can take both>> Those who allege this an
tagonism forget that Goethe, predominantly a poet, was
also a scientific inquirer. Nor are converse cases want
ing. Prof. Tyndall is chiefly distinguished as a scientific
inquirer; but among those who are classed as poets

             485

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

have an equally great love of beauty. Every year dwell
ing as long as the weather allows in his chalet on the Bel
Alp, having the peaks of the Oberland ever before him,
and then migrating to his English retreat on Hind Head,
with its wide sweep of landscape, he displays a passion
for Nature quite Wordsworthian in its intensity.

   Another trait, not perhaps wholly unallied with this, is
to be noted. The ordinary scientific specialist, deeply

interested in his speciality, and often displaying compara
tively little interest in other departments of science, is

rarely much interested in the relations between Science
at large and the great questions which lie beyond Science.

With Prof. Tyndall, however, --and it is equally so with
Prof. Huxley --one of the chief interests in Science is its
bearings on these great questions : the light it throws on
our own nature and the nature of the Universe ; and the

humility it teaches by everywhere leaving us in presence
of the inscrutable. The dull world outside thinks of
Science as nothing but a matter of chemical analyses,
calculations of distances and times, labelings of species,
physiological experiments, and the like; but among the
initiated, those of higher type, while seeking scientific
knowledge for its proximate value, have an ever-increas
ing consciousness of its ultimate value as a transfigura
tion of things, which, marvellous enough within the limits
of the knowable, suggests a profounder marvel that can
not be known. Various lectures and addresses of Prof.
Tyndall have shown how much this conception of Science
influences him.

   Though that performance of feats in Alpine climbing,
which has familiarized his name to many who know
nothing of his scientific work, is by some ascribed to the
feeling which would--

                                                  486

jEt. 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

" Pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon,"

yet those who know him intimately see in it two other

traits: --one of them being a certain fascination which

climbing in general has for him; and the other being a
deep-seated resolve to keep the lower nature with all its

desires and fears, subject to the commands of a deter

mined will. Joined with his Irish warmth, this may be an
element in his chivalrous tendency to take up the cause
of any one he thinks ill-used. The disregarded priority
of M. Rendu, the Swiss bishop, in the interpretation of

glacier-motion, found in him an expositor. He set forth
the claims of the German physician, Mayer, to an early
publication of the doctrine of equivalence among the
physical forces. The great discoveries of Young, dis
credited during his life by one whom people foolishly
regarded as an authority -- Lord Brougham--have been
more than once eloquently set forth by him. And at
great personal cost, he energetically fought the cause of
an inventor unfairly treated by officials -- Mr. Wigham.

In one case only, not among these, did I differ from him

as to the worthiness of the object of his sympathies,

similarly enlisted.

  Do I mean myself? Well no; though my name should

be included among the names of those who have benefited

by his desire to see justice done, yet it is scarcely in the

nature of things that I should in this case disagree with

him as to the propriety of his efforts.

   In its early days, while directed by Mill and aided by

Molesworth, The Westminster Review had been an organ

of genuine Liberalism --the Liberalism which seeks to

extend men's liberties ; not the modern perversion of it

             487

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

of votes (which are but a means to an end) is busily
decreasing their liberties, both by the multiplication of re
straints and commands, and by taking away larger parts
of their incomes to be spent not as they individually like,
but as public officials like. In pursuance of its genuine
Liberalism, The Westminster Review had reprobated the
excesses of Government-meddling; and this traditional

policy Chapman willingly continued. Knowing my views
on this matter, he asked me to write an article setting

them forth ; and I gladly assented.

   Why say anything about this article, considering how
familiar these views of mine are ? Well, there are several
reasons. First, that it is well to note the earlier phases of
these views; second, that inattention has to be overcome
by iteration and re-iteration ; and third, that with some,
a succinct statement of theses tells more than a full expo

sition crowded with illustrations.
   The incidents of our private lives often prove to us

the fallibility of our judgments --our " best laid
schemes . . . gang aft agley." How then can we be

so very confident about our schemes for public welfare,
in respect of which our judgments, because of com
plicated data, are so much more liable to err. And should
not our hesitation be immensely increased on contem
plating the blunderings of our ancestors, seen in the
almost countless statutes which century after century have

been passed and repealed after severally doing mischief.

Again, why should we hope so much from State-agency

in new fields, when in the old fields it has bungled so

miserably? Why, if the organizations for national de
fence and administration of justice work so ill that loud

complaints are daily made, should we be anxious for

488

**, 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

why, considering .that private enterprise has subdued the
land, built the towns, made our means of communication,
and developed our civilized appliances at large, should
we be reluctant to trust private enterprise in further mat

ters? Why slight the good and faithful servant and
promote the unprofitable one from one talent to ten?
Human desires are the motive forces from which come
all social activities. These desires may use for their
satisfactions direct agencies, as when men individually
work to achieve their ends, or voluntarily combine in
groups to do it ; or they may use for their satisfactions

indirect agencies, as when electors choose representatives,
who authorize a ministry, who form a department, which
appoints chief officials, who select subordinates, who
superintend those who do the work. Among mecha- .
nicians it is a recognized truth that the multiplication of /
levers, wheels, cranks, &c., in an apparatus, involves loss '

of power, and increases the chances of going wrong. Is

it not so with governmental machinery, as compared with
the simpler machinery men frame in its absence? More
over, men's desires when left to achieve their own satis
factions, follow the order of decreasing intensity and
importance: the essential ones being satisfied first. But
when, instead of aggregates of desires spontaneously
working for their ends, we get the judgments of govern
ments, there is no guarantee that the order of relative
importance will be followed, and there is abundant proof

that it is not followed. Adaptation to one function pre
supposes more or less unfitness for other functions ; and
pre-occupation with many functions is unfavourable to the
complete discharge of any one. Beyond the function of
national defence the essential function to be discharged
by a government is that of seeing that citizens in seeking

                                             489

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

satisfactions for their own desires, individually or in
groups, shall not injure one another; and its failure to

perform this function is great in proportion as its other
functions are numerous. The daily scandals of our judi
cial system, which often brings ruin instead of restitution

and frightens away multitudes who need protection, re
sult in large measure from the pre-occupation of states

men and politicians with non-essential things, while the
all-essential thing passes almost unheeded.

   Such were some of the leading propositions set forth in

the article on " Over-legislation." I am reminded by a

letter that Mr. Samuel Morley, widely known in later
times as one who spent his money freely for public ob

jects, asked permission to re-publish the article in a sep
arate form. Chapman demurred for the reason that re
publication would be injurious to the Review. Not long
afterwards, however, with my assent, he issued it in a

separate form himself, in his " Library for the Peo
ple :" Mr. Morley agreeing to take part of the edition.

   The close of my engagement at the beginning of July,
came, as it appears, not inopportunely ; for letters show

that my health had been a good deal shaken by the extra

work of the half year. An executorship, even when a
will is not complicated, entails many transactions and a
good deal of correspondence. With this necessitated
business had been joined the writing of the two above-
described articles -- the last of them under some pressure
as to time. Added to my routine official work, these had
proved a little too much for me, and relaxation had be

come needful.
   Remembrances of these years of my journalistic life,

490

&r- 33-34]  LEAVE THE ECONOMIST

made my daily existence a not undesirable one ; and some
kinds of pleasures were accessible in ample amounts. The

period was one in which there was going on an active
development of thought. There then germinated various
ideas which unfolded in after years ; and of course the
rise of these ideas, and in some cases the partial elabora
tion of them, had their concomitant gratifications of a
sustained kind. Moreover, during this interval my exist
ence became much enriched in another way. To the
friendships of previous years were now added five others,
which gradually entered as threads into the fabric of my
life ; and some of which affected its texture and pattern

in marked ways. In short, I think I may say that the

character of my later career was mainly determined by
the conceptions which were initiated, and the friendships
which were formed, between the times at which my con

nexion with The Economist began and ended.

            491


               PART VI.

   XXV. Two Months' Holiday.
  XXVI. Writing for Quarterly Reviews.
 XXVII. My Second Book.
XXVIII. Eighteen Months Lost.
  XXIX. Some Significant Essays.


                      CHAPTER XXV.

                    TWO MONTHS' HOLIDAY.

                         1853. Mt. 33.

  Except for ten days at Christmas I185 1--2, had not

been absent from London more than four days at a time
since the autumn of 1848: a period of nearly five years.
Naturally, therefore, as the close of my engagement ap
proached, plans were laid for utilizing my freedom by
visits and tours.

  During the spring it had been arranged that I should

spend a fortnight with the Potters immediately after my
release. They had just migrated to a new residence near
Stonehouse, named Standish House, owned by Lord

Sherborne, and at one time inhabited by him. It stands
on the flank of the Cotswold Hills, facing the west. Be

hind, separated from the grounds by a ha-ha, a large
park-like field running up the side of the hill, is bounded

by an amphitheatre of beech trees. In front lies a broad
valley, on the far side of which, some ten miles off, is to
be seen, when the tide is up, the silver streak of the
Severn estuary. Beyond this lie high lands : on the right,
in the dim distance, the Malvern Hills ; far away to the
left the hills of South Wales ; and in front the Forest of
Dean, over which gorgeous sunsets are often to be wit

nessed.

                                                   495

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

   I have thus briefly described the surroundings of

Standish House because, during the succeeding thirty
years -- in spring, summer, autumn, winter--very many
happy times were passed under its hospitable roof. Dur
ing this first visit there was the added charm of novelty.
A walk up through the beech woods to the top of the
high ground behind, brought into view the Vale of
Stroud, with, to me, its bitter-sweet memories ; and,

running out of it in various directions, branch valleys,
with here and there a village nestling in a fold of the hills.
Then there was Beacon Hill, a spur of the Cotswolds ;

and the adjacent picturesque region known as Standish
Park. Now first explored, these, and many other neigh
bouring scenes at that time unvisited, were in after years
places for pleasant excursions : mostly walking, some
times driving, and rarely riding.

   Of course indoors our lighter conversations were inter

spersed with discussions. Probably on this occasion, as

on many occasions, there cropped up what was becoming

more and more dominant in my thoughts --the develop
ment of hypothesis. It was at that time rare to find any

one who entertained it ; and my friends habitually met
the expression of my belief with a tolerant smile.

   On returning to town towards the close of July, a
few days were occupied in preparations for a tour in

Switzerland. During the spring I had agreed with Lott
that we should visit in company. " I will go to heaven

with you," he wrote in one of his letters : so expressing
his passionate love of scenery. When the time fixed for
our departure came, he was detained by business ; and,
finding after some days that the detention would be con
siderable, I, anxious to get away, partly on grounds of

                                                  496

/Et. 33]  TWO MONTHS' HOLIDAY

health, decided to start in advance and await him at

Zurich.

   Why give any account of our journey? All who have

not been in Switzerland have read about it ; and only
special genius for description, or else an endowment of
humour great enough to evolve amusement out of famil
iar things, would be an adequate excuse for the narrative.

I will limit myself to the briefest outline.

   My first acquaintance with the Continent was made at

Antwerp ; whence, having just time to see the cathedral

and Ruben's picture, I departed for Aix-la-Chapelle.

Early next day to Cologne ; and, after an hour or two

spent chiefly in its then unfinished cathedral, by steamer
to Coblentz. On to Maintz and Frankfort next day ;

feeling a good deal disappointed with the picturesque part
of the Rhine. Two nights and a day at Frankfort were
made miserable by my first attack of tooth-ache, after an
immunity of thirty-three years. Thence to Basle ; and

thence, after a day, to Zurich. Here I spent a week or

so; and then, when the time for my friend's arrival had

been exceeded by some days, I got impatient, and left a

letter for him at the post-office telling him that he would
find me at the top of the Righi. Two days' walk brought
me there ; and he joined me within a few hours of my
arrival. The successive journeys of our subsequent days
ran thus: -- Along the Lake of Lucerne to Fluelin and

Amsteg ; to Andermatt and Hospenthal ; the Furca Pass
and up to Furca-horn ; over the Rhone Glacier, up the
Grimsel Pass, and down to the Handeck Falls ; to Mey-
ringen ; over by Rosenlaui to Grindelwald ; up the Faul-
horn ; down again, and up the Wengern Alp ; to Lauter-

brunnen and Interlaken ; a day's rest ; by steamer to
Thun, and by carriage to Frutigen ; over the Gemmi to

                   33 497

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

the baths of Leuk ; by carriage to Visp and on foot to

Stalden and Nicolai ; to Zermatt ; a day on the Gorner

glacier ; up the Riffelberg and Gorner Grat and down ;
back to Nicolai ; back to Visp. Here ended our pedes

trian tour. A diligence took us to Vevay and to Basle;

the railway thence to Mannheim ; steamer down the

Rhine to Cologne ; railway to Brussels ; where my friend

left me, and where I spent a few days before returning to

London.

   I suppose I must say something about the impressions

our tour left. My first remark is that we committed the
usual error. With an insatiable appetite for scenery and

a definitely limited holiday, my friend Lott was con
stantly a spur ; and instead of seeing a moderate amount

and seeing it well, we saw a great deal hurriedly.
   But what were my impressions? Two unlike answers

would seem to be given by two extracts from letters,
either of which is misleading if taken by itself. The first

is from one written to my father after my return.

   " I was much disappointed from the absence of fine colour

ing. Grey and green and brown are the prevailing tints. In
consequence of the clearness of the air there is very little
atmospheric effect, and a general absence of those various
tones which this gives. In this respect Switzerland is far

inferior to Scotland. I remember Jackson expressing the

opinion that for pictorial effect Scotland was far preferable;

and I quite agree with him."

The other is from a letter to my uncle William, hurriedly
written in pencil, and dated " Top of the Faulhorn, 8000
and odd feet above the sea, 22 Aug. 1853." This, though
it avows no impression, indicates one.

  " Here I sit surrounded by a vast panorama of mountains

                                                  498

/Et. 33]  TWO MONTHS' HOLIDAY

and lakes --on one side the comparatively fertile, inhabited

part of Switzerland, on the other the peaks of the high Alps,
varying from 10 to 15 thousand feet high, covered with snow
and hourly sending down avalanches which send a peal of
thunder across the valley seven to ten miles wide, lying
between us and these giants of the Alps. From my bedroom

window I see at one view the Wetterhorn, the Schrekhorn,

the Finsteraarhorn, and the Jungfrau. The nearest is seven
miles off, the furthest thirteen ; yet so clear is the air and
so vast are the heights that they all of them look within two
miles."

   The reconciliation between the different feelings im

plied by these different extracts, is furnished by a sen
tence which precedes the first of them.

    " On the whole, though Switzerland fully equalled my
anticipations in respect of its grandeur, it did not do so in
respect of its beauty."
Beauty is deficient both because there is a lack of the

warmer and brighter colours and because the forms do

not compose well --the lines do not combine picturesquely.
But this deficiency of beauty leaves the grandeur un
diminished. After a time during which is acquired some
power of interpreting the impressions made on the senses,
unfamiliar with scenes of such vastness, there all at once

comes a revelation ; as when, while looking from the
smaller mountains on one side of a valley at the great
ones on the other, which, instead of dwindling as we have
ascended seem to have grown, a cloud comes drifting

across their faces and over it their peaks suddenly rise to
a height far above that which they previously seemed to
have. " Nature is the circumstance which dwarfs every

other circumstance," says Emerson ; and there are few
places in which the truth of the saying is more vividly
felt than in presence of one of these immense snow

          499

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

crowned masses which now and again makes the valleys

reverberate by its avalanches.
   The often-quoted remark of Kant that two things

excited his awe-- the starry heavens and the conscience of
man-- is not one which I should make of myself. In me

the sentiment has been more especially produced by three

things --the sea, a great mountain, and fine music in a
cathedral. Of these the first has, from familiarity I sup
pose, lost much of the effect it originally had, but not the

others.

   To this brief indication of the mental impressions left

by the tour, there has to be added something concerning

the physical effects apparently produced by it.

  Years before, I had read Andrew Combe's work The

Principles of Physiology applied to the preservation of
Health, and had duly accepted the warning given by him

against excessive exertion on the part of those who,

having previously led sedentary lives, attempt feats of

walking and climbing. Yet, aware as I was of the pos
sible mischiefs, I transgressed : not, however, as it seems,

without excuse. In the above-named letter written on the
Faulhorn, after urging my uncle to see Switzerland, I
went on to say --

" There is however great temptation to do too much. The
difficulty of getting tolerable accommodation save at certain

places, often induces one to go too far, and spite of the feats
which the Swiss air enables every one to do, Lott and I
overdid ourselves a few days ago, in spite of my previously
made resolution to avoid any excess of exertion. However
we shall be more resolute in future."

   Of three excesses in walking which I recall (the last

500

JEt. 33]  TWO MONTHS' HOLIDAY

notwithstanding the resolution expressed in it) two were
caused by misleading statements contained in Murray's
Guide. This led us to arrange for stopping at places

which, when we saw them, we instantly decided to avoid
at the cost of two or three hours' more walking along

rough roads and in partial darkness : previous experience
having proved that nights made sleepless by fleas were

the alternatives.

  These details I set down as introductory to the state

ment that within a few days of my return to London,
there began signs of enfeebled action of the heart. There
was no mental cause. As said in a letter to my father,

while in Switzerland " I cultivated stupidity assiduously

and successfully ;" and after my return it was some

weeks before I got seriously to work.

   Two distinguished physiologists have at different times

assured me that the heart cannot be overtaxed ; but,

authoritative though their opinions are, I have found
acceptance of them difficult. Among reasons for scepti
cism are these :-- First, the improbability that there are
no foundations for the many assertions that extreme ex

ertion, as in rowing matches, sometimes leaves behind a
long prostration. Second, there is the unquestionable
fact that during states of debility the heart is easily over
taxed : the implication being that if, during an abnormal
state, its limit of power may be exceeded, it may be
exceeded during a normal state. Third, the truth that

other organs have limits to their powers which cannot be
over-passed without damage -- damage sometimes ending
in atrophy -- seems scarcely likely to fail in the case of
one organ alone. Fourth, such an exception does not
seem reconcilable with the hypothesis of evolution ; for

          SOI

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

 can any organ have acquired a never-used surplus of
 strength ?

     Be the interpretation what it may, however, here is

a fact, that immediately after my return from Switzer

 land, there commenced cardiac disturbances which never
 afterwards entirely ceased ; and which doubtless pre
 pared the way for the more serious derangements of
 health subsequently established.

   The record of my doings at this period will be incom

plete if I do not mention a visit paid into Suffolk.
  One of the places at which my uncle had, in 1852 I

think, discharged for a time the duties of the absent

clergyman, was Halesworth ; and among those who were
drawn from neighbouring places by the accounts of his
preaching, was Mrs. Trevanion, one of the daughters of

Sir Francis Burdett of political celebrity. A friendship

with my uncle resulted, which was renewed during Mrs.

Trevanion 's sojourns in London. I suppose it was on
one of my Sunday evening visits to him at Notting Hill
that I first met her; though I cannot recall the occasion.

   From my aunt it doubtless was that she heard of my

religious opinions, and thereupon became concerned
about my state and anxious for my conversion. She was
an admirer of Dr. Gumming, one of the popular preach

ers of that day, and begged that I would accompany her
to hear him. There was no escape for me : I had to

yield. It is scarcely needful to say that none of the
hoped-for effect was produced. While it raises a smile,

there is something pathetic in the confidence with which

those who have never inquired, think that those who

have inquired and rejected, need but to hear once more

the old beliefs duly emphasized to be convinced.

                                                  502

JEt. 33]  TWO MONTHS' HOLIDAY

   During the spring or early summer, it was arranged

that after my return from Switzerland I should spend a

fortnight with Mrs. Trevanion at her residence in Suffolk

--Earl Soham Lodge, near Woodbridge. After nearly a
month in London I left it to make the promised visit.

The following extracts from a letter to my father, written

from Earl Soham on October 8, I quote chiefly because of

the indications they give of engagements and intentions.
   " The house is built on the ruins of an old castle and is

surrounded by the moat that once guarded it. Part of the
old walls of the moat still remain; so that it is sufficiently

picturesque.

   " Mrs. Trevanion had expected other visitors but has been

disappointed ; so I am here alone. I fear it will be rather
dull. However, I have a good deal of writing to do; and

having a comfortable sitting room with fire put at my disposal,

I shall devote myself to work, and pass the time in that way.
  " I have agreed to write an article on ' Manners and

Fashion ' for the Westminster. They wish me to get it ready

in time for the January No. in case they should want it ; which

however they are not sure of doing. Having this and the

' Method in Education ' to finish by the middle of December,

I shall have plenty to do. * * *
  " I am going to give notice shortly to read a paper at the

next British Association on the ' Law of Organic Symmetry.'

I was speaking to Professor Forbes about it a few days ago,

and he was advising me to fix on the first day of meeting,

and says that he will see that it has a good place on the list."

My visit to Earl Soham I brought to a close as soon as

I could, finding  as anticipated, very dull. Being
                  it,

                        I

                                                                                                         ;

                                                                      I
nearly twenty years my senior, and having comparatively

few subjects of interest in common with me, my amiable

hostess did not prove an enlivening companion and

                  503

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853

Trevanion resembled her younger sister Lady Burdett-
Coutts. In the one there was, as in the other there is, a

union between interest in human welfare at large and in

terest in the welfares of those around, prompting fre

quent acts of kindness and attention. This is a trait

much to be admired ; for general philanthropy is often

not accompanied by philanthropy in detail.

  On the 17th of October I was back in London, and
leaving it next day, I spent a week with the Brays at
Coventry ; whence I departed in time to reach home

towards the close of the month.

504

                    CHAPTER XXVI.

          WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS.

                    I853--54- Mr. 33--34.

   That part of a biography which consists of printed

gossip, having little or no significance, bears a variable
ratio to that part which has significance more or less
considerable. Commonly, the trivialities of incident and
action, which might have been this way or that way
without appreciably affecting the general result, occupy
the larger space, and to many readers prove the most
attractive ; while relatively small interest is felt by them
in those passages, occupying relatively subordinate
places, which throw light on the genesis of character
and belief and conduct.

   Of course detailed personalities in considerable
amount are indispensable ; since, without them, the nar
rative of a life cannot have the continuity and cohesion
required to give it the concreteness of reality. Of such

details I have myself found it needful to set down many.
But I have sought to give more prominence than usual

to the delineations of ideas and the manifestations of

sentiments ; and I have aimed to show, directly or by

implication, the relations of these to innate traits, to
education, and to circumstances.

   In the life of the man of action an account of external

                                                  505

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

of the man of thought the first place should, I think, be

occupied by an account of internal events. Not the
origin and description of deeds is now the thing of chief
import, but the origin and description of doctrines.

Hence I have not scrupled to devote from time to time

considerable space to digests of essays, and to such com
ments on them as seemed requisite to explain their

antecedents.

  I make these remarks here because, during the period

of some eight months to be covered by this chapter,
there occurred scarcely anything of moment in the

shape of incident. Only those who are interested in
tracing the growth of theories will find in it matter to

detain them.

  " Method in Education " was commenced while I was

at Earl Soham, but the inertness of brain consequent
on bodily exertion in Switzerland had not been over
come, and little progress was made. Save the first few
pages, the essay was written at Derby during No

vember.
   Its subject had a triple interest for me. Relating to

it there were certain results of observation, and to some
extent of experiment, which seemed worth setting forth,
considered intrinsically. Then it had direct connexions
with psychology, which was at that time dominant in my
thoughts. Moreover, mental development had its place
in the theory of development at large : serving at once

to illustrate this and to be elucidated by it. If not con

sciously, still unconsciously, the desire to treat of it
from the psychological and developmental points of
view decided me to make " method in education " the
topic for a review-article.

                                                  506

&*. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

    Under its biological aspect, education may be consid
ered as a process of perfecting the structure of the or
ganism, and making it fit for the business of life. In
ferior creatures exemplify this truth to a small extent.
The behaviour of adult birds to their newly-fledged off
spring, and the play of a cat with her kitten, show us
ways in which the young are induced so to exercise
their limbs and perceptions and instincts as daily to
strengthen them and give finish to the various parts
called into action. In children the physical education
naturally effected by spontaneous play, as well as that
artificially effected in a much less desirable way by gym
nastics, visibly develops the muscles; and, as every
physiologist will infer, develops also the nerves and
ganglia which co-ordinate their movements, as well as
the nerves and ganglia which are used in perception.

A like development accompanies the activities classed

as intellectual : there is a finishing of the employed cere
bral plexuses. Nay, more than this is true. Every les
son learnt, every fact picked up, every observation
made, implies some molecular re-arrangement in cer
tain nervous centres. So that not only that effect of ex
ercise by which the faculties are fitted for their functions
in life, but also the acquirement of knowledge serving
for guidance, is, from the biological point of view, an
adjustment of structure to function.

   What is the implication? Evidently that method in
education must correspond with method in organiza
tion -- must be a kind of objective counterpart to it. Or
ganization does not go on at random, but everywhere
conforms to recognizable principles ; and unless these
principles are recognized and conformed to in educa

                                                  507

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

but to remember that in its rudimentary state every or
ganism is simple, while it ends in being relatively com
plex, and often highly complex-- it needs but to remem

ber that in its first stage the forms and divisions of an

unfolding germ are vague while in the adult they are

quite distinct --it needs but to remember that these

truths, holding of the transformation in its entirety,
hold of it in all its details; to see that they yield guid

ance to the teacher in framing his system, and that if
he disregards them he will commit grave errors ; as
when he insists on putting into undeveloped minds per

fectly exact ideas : exactness being not only unappre

ciated by, but even repugnant to, minds in low stages.

   I need not specify all the conclusions drawn from this
general conception, which the essay set forth. I will

add only that from it were derived reasons " for making
education a process of self-instruction, and by conse

quence a process of pleasurable instruction." And I

name these two derivative principles only to gain the

opportunity of saying that, in the enunciation and ad

vocacy of them, I recognize, more than anywhere else,
the direct influence of my father. It was by strengthen

ing certain habits of thought that his chief influence

over me had been exercised, and it thus was general

only ; but in this case it was special. If not by precept

yet unmistakably by example, he produced in me an
early acceptance of these principles ; and there remained
but to justify them by affiliating them on the Method
of Nature.

   That which is chiefly to be noted here, however, is

the relation borne by the ideas in this essay to preceding
and succeeding ideas. That its pervading doctrine was

508

*x- 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

that certain specific evolutionary doctrines were grow

ing. It is said of mind that " like all things that develop,

it progresses from the homogeneous to the heterogene
     "                                     " the
ous         and  it  is  also  said  that         development  of the
         ;

mind, as all other development, is an advance from the

indefinite to the definite." Thus are shown the pres

ence, and the incipient spreading, of conceptions which

were afterwards to take a far wider range.

   The title of this essay when published in The North
British Review for May, 1854, was changed to " The Art

of Education." It now forms the second chapter of

Education: Intellectual, Moral and Physical.

   Some reflections may fitly introduce the next essay.

An American --or to speak strictly an Americanized
Scotchman, --who maintained the unlimited right of the

majority to rule, said to me that if the majority were to
pass a law directing what food he should eat, he would
obey. He was an enthusiastic upholder of free institu
tions, or rather, of what he supposed to be free institu

tions. He would have been greatly astonished had I
told him, as I might properly have done, that his con

ception of freedom was but rudimentary.
   There has grown up quite naturally, and indeed al

most inevitably, among civilized peoples, an identifica
tion of freedom with the political appliances established
to maintain freedom. The two are confused together

in thought ; or, to express the fact more correctly, they
have not yet been separated in thought. In most coun
tries during past times, and in many countries at the
present time, experience has associated in men's minds
the unchecked power of a ruler with extreme coercion

                                     509

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

ple have acquired some power, the restraints on the liber
ties of individuals have been relaxed ; and with advance
towards government by the majority, there has, on the
average, been a progressing abolition of laws and re
moval of burdens which unduly interfered with such
liberties. Hence, by contrast, popularly-governed na
tions have come to be regarded as free nations; and
possession of political power by all is supposed to be
the same thing as freedom. But the assumed identity

of the two is a delusion --a delusion which, like many

other delusions, results from confounding means with
ends. Freedom in its absolute form is the absence of
all external checks to whatever actions the will prompts ;

and freedom in its socially restricted form is the absence
of any other external checks than those arising from
the presence of other men who have like claims to do
what their wills prompt. The mutual checks hence re
sulting are the only checks which freedom, in the true
sense of the word, permits. The sphere within which
each may act without trespassing on the like spheres of
others, cannot be intruded upon by any agency, private
or public, without an equivalent loss of freedom ; and
it matters not whether the public agency is autocratic
or democratic : the intrusion is essentially the same. My

American friend would, I suppose, have admitted that

had he been a negro ; and had a planter who bought him
and set him to work, happened to have his plantation
confiscated by the Government ; and if the Government,
carrying on the planter's business, made him, the negro,
work under the lash as before ; his slavery would be not
much mitigated by the thought that instead of being
coerced by an individual he was now coerced by the

5io

&*. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

specified material or pattern, or if he is forbidden to
take this or that kind of drink, the effect on him is the
same whether the commands come from a despot or
from a popular assembly. Had he a more developed
conception of freedom, he would in all such matters of
personal concern resent dictation by the million, as in
past ages he would have resented dictation by the unit,
and as he even now resents dictation by the million in
respect of his religious beliefs and practices.

   The power of the society over the individual is
greatest among the lowest peoples. The private doings
of each person are far more tyrannically regulated by
the community among savages, than they are among
civilized men ; and one aspect of advancing civilization
is the emancipation of the individual from the despotism
of the aggregate of individuals. Though in an uncivilized
tribe the control of each by all is not effected through
formulated law, it is effected through established cus
tom, often far more rigid. The young man cannot es
cape the tattooing, or the knocking out of teeth, or the
circumcision, prescribed by usage and enforced by pub
lic opinion. When he marries, stringent regulations
limit his choice to women of certain groups, or, as in
many cases, he is not allowed to have a wife until he

succeeds in stealing one. All through life he must con

form to certain interdicts on social intercourse with con
nexions formed by marriage. So is it throughout. In
herited rules which the living combine to maintain, and
the authority of which no one dreams of questioning,
control all actions. Similarly during the early stages of
civilized societies, when the political and ecclesiastical
institutions have become well organized, the despotism

                              5"

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                  [1853-54

by the whole community over every member through its
irresistible usages. But on turning from the East, where

this connexion has been in all times exemplified, to the

West of modern times, we see that along with a decrease

of political restraints and ecclesiastical restraints there

goes a decrease of ceremonial restraints ; so that now
these dictates of the majority may, many of them, be

broken with impunity or without serious penalty.

Doubtless the current conception of freedom is con

gruous with existing social life; and a higher concep
tion would be dangerously incongruous with it. Primi

tive men, having natures in most respects unfitted for

social co-operation, were held in the social state only

by coercion of one or other kind : those varieties of them

which would not submit, having failed to become social.

Progress occurred where there existed such obedience

to despotic rulers, political and ecclesiastical, as made

possible the control of ill-governed and aggressive na
tures. At that stage the assertion of personal liberties,

wherever it occurred, was a fatal impediment to national

growth and organization. Only along with the gradual

moulding of men to the social state, has it become possi

ble without social disruption for those ideas and feelings

which cause resistance to unlimited authority, to assert

themselves and to restrict the authority. At present the

need for the authority and for the sentiment which

iscauses submission to
                            it,

                                                                    it
                                                                                 is
                      continues to be great. While

the most advanced nations vie with one another in com

mitting political burglaries all over the world,                                     mani

fest that their members are far too aggressive to permit

much weakening of the restraining agencies by which

order maintained among them. The unlimited right

                      512

Mt. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

ception of freedom as can safely be entertained at pres
ent ; indeed, even that can safely be entertained.
if,

      It
               I

                                                                                      ;
Ideas like some of these but less definite, or rather

the sentiments appropriate to such ideas, prompted the
article on " Manners and Fashion " named at the close

of the last chapter as having been agreed upon for publi

cation in The Westminster Review, and which appeared

in April.  was, suppose, written at Derby before

the middle of January.

As just implied, and as may be inferred from the latter

part of the article, its original purpose was that of pro

testing against sundry of the social conventions to

which most people submit uncomplainingly. Inherited

nature and paternal example had united to produce ina
me repugnance of these, and especially to such of them
as are expressive of class-subordination. But though,
when planning the article, evolutionary views were not
present to me, they came to the front when executing it.

How things have come to be what they are--how they

have naturally grown into their present forms, seems to
have become question which in every case presented
itself; with the result that some fragment of the gen
eral theory of evolution was more or less definitely

sketched out.
   The truth that Law, Religion and Manners are re

lated as severally being systems of restraints, having
been illustrated, their bond of relationship was found in
the fact that " originally Deity, Chief, and Master of the
ceremonies were identical." When, out of the primitive

group, there arose some man whose remarkable powers,
displayed chiefly in war, gave him predominance, the
various kinds of control over the rest were simultane

           34 513

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

ously initiated. And out of this unity of control there
was shown to arise that diversity of control exercised
by political, ecclesiastical and ceremonial institutions.
Restricted to the development of one of these forms of
control, the essay proceeded to show that in the genesis
of Manners itself, may be traced this same divergence
and re-divergence. As with obeisances, which are vari
ously abridged and modified forms of the original pros
tration, so with titles, modes of address, and cere
monies of all kinds, the uniform has become the multi

form.

   Though between these conceptions and the develop
mental conceptions set forth in preceding essays, there
is a manifest harmony, yet the phrases previously em
ployed do not recur. The differentiation of the political,
ecclesiastical, and ceremonial institutions, is said to be
" in conformity with the law of evolution of all organ
ized bodies, that general functions are gradually sepa
rated into the special functions constituting them " ; but
there is no reference to the implied transformation of
the homogeneous into the heterogeneous. Similarly,
while various of the facts given illustrate the transition
from the indefinite to the definite, no mention is made
of this trait of development. The substance of the con
ception had grown in advance of the form -- had itself
not yet become definite.

   It should be added that there here makes its first
appearance a doctrine which was, many years after
wards, elaborately developed -- the doctrine that propiti
ation of the ruling man, becoming after his death pro
pitiation of his double expected presently to return, gave
origin to ideas and observances which became eventu
ally those we class as religious.

                                             5M-

<Et. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

What took me to London in the middle of January?

Possibly in part my constitutional impatience of monot

ony; for life in Derby was always dull, and the change

to London life with its exhilarations often served to

raise my health up to par when it had been below par.

Probably, however, the obtaining of additional informa

tion required for articles in hand, and the making of

engagements for further articles, were the predominant

motives.

   Letters written from my old haunt, 20, Clifton Road,

St. John's Wood, contain passages which show what I

was doing and intending to do. Here is an extract

from one to my father, dated January 20.

  " I am in negotiation with Chapman to write a short article

on ' Railway Morals ' d propos of the guarantee system of

extensions and preference shares.

  " I am busy reading Comte, and am getting up a very
formidable case against him. I have nearly finished a sketch

of one article, which I have proposed to send to Fraser [then
editor of The North British Review] but have not yet had a

reply."

From another dated Jan. 28, I take the following: --

   " As you will see by the last of the two enclosed notes

from Cornewall Lewis, I am going to write the article on
' Railway Morals ' for the Edinburgh Review. I do not
wish it known that I am going to do it for the Edinburgh;

fearing that should the fact get to the ears of the adverse

party, some countervailing influence may be used."

In a letter of 17 Feb. occur the paragraphs: --        I took
  " I have agreed to write for the British Quarterly.

this step in consequence of finding (as you will see from the

two enclosed notes from Fraser) that there is so much liability

to delays that it is needful to have a good many strings to one's

          515

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                        [1853-54

next number, it will put me somewhat about. However, now
that I have arranged to write for the Edinburgh and the

British Quarterly in addition, the inconvenience can be but

temporary. It would be strange indeed when contributing
                                                                       I

                                                                                      if,
to four Quarterlies, should not have demand for five articles
I
                     ;

               It
                  II
in the year seeing that hitherto have written two year for
                                                                                           a

                                                                                                 '
the Westminster alone. . . .
   " do not involve myself in the re-publication of Over-

Legislation.'      will be wholly an affair between Chapman

and Mr. Morley.         have been making important additions.

Chapman could not afford space for the Railway Morals
                                                                       '                   I
                                                                                                                     '
in the next number of the Westminster. Hence thought

best to try the Edinburgh, and although its publication will

be delayed there,       much more influential medium.
                   it
                       is

                            a
                                       a

                                             is

                                           I
" have just proposed the review of Comte to Dr. Vaughan
I
    I
[then editor of The British Quarterly Review] but fear that

am too late.                                                           that have sketches of two

" My chief vexation just now

important articles on this topic and doubt whether shall
                                                                                           II I
get place for either."
a

Here are passages from letter written to my mother

Ion 27 Feb.                                                                                         have
                                                                                                      feel
 ..." enclose two notes from Dr. Vaughan, for whom

agreed to write one of the reviews of Comte.

somewhat inclined,  if      will be convenient, to come down

                        it

to Derby in April and stay with you into midsummer, on the

usual terms [i.e. contributing my share to the household

expenses, which made sine qua non\.                                                        propose this
               I
                  I

                                       a
                                                            a

                                                     I
partly because wish to save up considerable sum for my

projected stay in Paris in the autumn, and partly from the

wish to put myself under regimen in the way of exercise in

boating, &c.
   " have commenced to-day the paper for the Edinburgh on
I

     I
                            It

                                                                    a
Railway Morals.         will be terrific exposure."
wrote to my father on March 14 --

                            516

£*. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

   " I am getting very anxious to begin the Psychology, which
is constantly growing. . . As soon as I have completed the
two articles I have in hand, I shall devote myself wholly

to it."

   It seems that I returned to Derby a few days after the

last-named letter was written, and there remained until
towards the end of June.

Instead of the words " I am busy reading Comte,"

used in one of the foregoing extracts, the words used

should have been-- I am busy reading Miss Martineau's

abridged translation of Comte. This had then been re
cently issued ; and as two of my friends, Mr. Lewes and

Miss Evans, were in large measure adherents of Comte's

views, I was curious to learn more definitely what these

were. Already, as said in a preceding chapter, I had got

through the " Exposition " in the original ; and while

remaining neutral respecting the doctrine of the three

stages, had forthwith rejected the classification of the

sciences. I had also read Mr. Lewes's outlines of the

Comtean system, serially published in The Leader.

Whether, when I began to read Miss Martineau's
abridged translation, I had any intention of reviewing

iIt,  cannot remember; but evidently,     not present at
                                a
the outset, the intention was soon formed.
                                    I if
The disciples of M. Comte think that am much in

debted to him and so am, but in way widely unlike
      ;

          I
                I
that which they mean. Save in the adoption of his word
" altruism," which have defended, and in the adoption
of his word " sociology," because there was no other

available word (for both which adoptions    have been
                                I
blamed), the only indebtedness                I             the in

                                                        is
                                recognize

                   517

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                     [1853-54

to his views led me to develop some of my own views.

What to think, is a question in part answered when it

has been decided what not to think. Shutting out any

large group of conclusions from the field of speculation,

narrows the field; and by so doing brings one nearer to

the conclusions which should be drawn. In this way

the Positive Philosophy (or rather the earlier part of
for did not read the biological or sociological divi
I                                                                        I
  It
      is I                                                                            I it,
sions, and think not the chemical) proved of service to
me. probable that but for my dissent from Comte's

classification of the sciences, my attention would never

have been drawn to the subject. Had not the subject

been entertained, should not have entered upon thatI
inquiry which ended in writing " The Genesis of

Science." And in the absence of ideas reached when

was tracing the genesis of science, one large division of

the Principles  of  Psychology would possibly have lacked

its organizing principle, or, indeed, would possibly not

have been written at all. In this way, then, trace an

important influence on my thoughts exercised by the

thoughts of M. Comte but was an influence opposite
I                                                                it
                                                              ;
in nature to that which the Comtists suppose.

need not here say anything about my strictures on

the schemes of Oken and Hegel, each of whom preceded

Comte in the attempt to organize system of philoso                    a
phy out of the sciences arranged in serial order; nor

need say anything about the proofs given that Comte's
I

                                         ;

                                          is
classification of the sciences neither logically nor his

torically justifiable nor about the assigned reasons for

holding that the relations of the sciences cannot be ex

pressed by any serial arrangement whatever. This crit

ical part of the article, though originally intended to be

                                                                 518

*t. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

the constructive part ; which alone calls for comment
in this place as being connected with subsequent devel
opments of thought.

   First pointing out how erroneous is the common no
tion that the knowledge called science is somehow
sharply distinguished from common knowledge ; and
then tacitly affirming the self-evident truth that science
must have gradually emerged from common knowl
edge; the essay proceeds to set forth the process of
emergence. Even crude knowledge of things around
exhibits prevision of one kind or other. Scientific pre
vision, acquiring definiteness as the knowledge of a re
lation between phenomena grows into knowledge of the
relation, acquires still greater definiteness as qualitative
prevision grows into quantitative prevision --as the ability
to predict the kind of foreseen result grows into the
ability to predict both the kind and the amount. This

advance implies the conception of measure. Ideas of like
and unlike, underlying the discriminations which even
animals make, are suggested to the primitive man by
various things, and especially by organic bodies : like
shapes, colours, weights, are shown him by fish from
a shoal, birds from a flock, beasts from a herd. Occa
sionally the objects are so nearly alike as to be scarcely
distinguishable ; and there emerges the idea of absolute

likeness or equality. Of equalities, the most exactly as
certainable are those of lengths. Two fish side by side,
showing equality of length, simultaneously imply the
ideas of duality and of measurement by apposition. Such
experiences, while thus yielding the ideas of equal
lengths and equal units of length, which are the root-
ideas of geometry, also yield the idea of equal units in

                                         5J9

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

calculus in general. At the same time, since these
organic bodies habitually present like relations among
their attributes --size, form, colour, odour, taste, mo
tions --in such wise that two or more of them being

given others can be inferred, a concomitant conscious
ness of likeness of relations results ; whence arises ordi
nary reasoning. Eventually out of this comes the con
ception of equality of relations, on which scientific reason
ing proceeds. Those subsequent steps in the genesis of
science thus initiated which are presented by the sev

eral sciences as they arise and diverge, cannot here be

named. It must suffice to say that along with the proc

ess of divergence and re-divergence sketched out, there

is sketched out the increasing inter-dependence of the

sciences. It is curious, however, that though there are

clearly portrayed in the article the increasing hetero
geneity in the general body of the sciences, the increas
ing definiteness shown by all its components, and the in
creasing integration implied by their mutual influence
and aid, there is no specific reference to this advance

from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous and from
the indefinite to the definite; though these formulae had
been used in a preceding essay. Again the substance of

the conception had grown faster than the shape, which

had not yet acquired definiteness.

   During the spring and early summer there continued

those signs of cardiac enfeeblement which set in after

my return from Switzerland. They had diminished, in

deed, but were still perceptible enough. Towards the

end of June I decided to try hydropathy : not, I believe,
because I had much faith in the nominal remedy ; for it

520

/Et. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

the change from an unhealthy, indoor, hard-worked and
often anxious life, to a life of ease, novelty, and amuse
ment, spent largely in the open air, while keeping reg
ular and early hours and eating wholesome food. But
whether the causes of improvement to health were essen
tial to the system or concomitant only, it seemed worth

while to give them a trial. I went to the establishment

in which my uncle had, more than once, derived much
benefit. An account of my experiences there is con
tained in the following paragraphs from a letter to my
mother, dated Umberslade Hall, Hockley Heath, Bir

mingham, 30 June, 1854.

  " I would have written earlier but that I waited until I had
something definite to report; and I should certainly have

written yesterday had not Dr. Johnson taken me out for a
drive in his gig, and remained out till after post time.

  " I have nothing very definite to tell you, further than that

on the whole the palpitations seem to be gradually diminishing
and do not generally attract my attention even at night;

although still more or less perceptible then, when I purposely
direct my attention to them. In other respects I am much
as I was. No great effect either one way or other seems
to be produced by the treatment, so far as I can judge by
my feelings. But being on the whole very well, I don't
know that I have any right to expect any very marked

results.
   " There are about 24 patients here at present. They are on

the whole not a particularly interesting class of persons. My
chief companion is Dr. Johnson himself, with whom I have a
good deal of talk from time to time. The time however
passes pleasantly enough. The Hall stands in the midst of
extensive grounds, with plantations and drives, two lakes
with boats on them, and plenty of country lanes in the sur

                                                   521

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                     [1853-54

and boating and driving, with the frequently recurring baths,
the days slip quietly by."

   There had then but just commenced that transforma
tion which hydropathic establishments have undergone.
It has been amusing to watch the process by which
classes of English people with ascetic or semi-ascetic
ideas, have been betrayed into a mode of enjoyment
which they would have looked askance at had it been
proposed to them without disguise. If, forty years ago,
anyone had advertised a country house in which the
guests, living as a family, were to be provided with facili
ties for passing the time pleasantly, he would have had
small chance of success. But the average Englishman
has great belief in the benefits of any regime which treats
his body severely, and makes him do things that are
not agreeable to his sensations. The water-cure con
sequently fell in with his humour; and he took to it
kindly. For companionship, patients brought with
them relatives, often much younger, who needed no
treatment. Those who took baths presently came to be
out-numbered by those who merely utilized the oppor
tunities for amusement ; until at length, the hydropathic
element becoming comparatively unobtrusive, there
have grown up all over the kingdom places in which
people assemble to have games and drives and picnics
and balls, to flirt and to make matches.

   Leaving Umberslade for London before the middle

of July, I there occupied myself in bringing to a close

some literary engagements. Though,   as implied above,
the article on " Railway Morals and  Railway Policy "

had been commenced early in the spring and had been

522

/Et. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

the seriousness of the allegations it made, to submit  it,

when in proof, to sundry of those who were familiar

with the doings of the railway world. After these alle

gations had received their indorsement there came the

need for dissipating the qualms of the editor of The
Edinburgh Review --at that time Sir George Cornewall

Lewis.  have pleasant recollections of my interview
      a

        I
              I
with him, and retain a clear picture of his remarkable

face, though never saw again.
   In letter to my father dated September 1853, oc

curs the passage: -- " you will get hold of Tuesday's
                      a              a

                         If              I5

                                 it
Times you will see report of meeting of South-West
ern Railway shareholders in which took part -- moveda

  resolution and made speech." It was from the im
                      a

pression made on me by the doings of the Board at this

meeting, that the article in question originated. The

experiences of my earlier engineering days had not re

vealed to me much partly because was not behind the
        I
                    ;
                                I
scenes and partly because at that time corrupting in

fluences were but beginning. During the railway-mania,

however, when resumed engineering, the motives and

actions of those concerned became partially known to

me. The conspiring together of lawyers, engineers, and

others seeking for professional work, with promoters

greedy of premiums, all utterly regardless of those who

were betrayed by their hollow schemes, repelled me so

effectually that never applied for single share, though
I                                       a
                   I
                                               I
   might have had many. Having at that time seen some

thing of railway morals from the inside, now, as pro

prietor, saw something of them from the outside: knowl

edge of motives gained in the first case serving to in

terpret actions in the second.       I  was indignant at the

                         523

            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY    [1853-54

jected and executed for the benefit of those who gov

erned and those in league with them; and determined

to expose the state of things.

As the developmental course of thought which it has

been my purpose to trace in preceding brief analysis of

articles, is not illustrated by this article, I need not here

say anything about its contents further than to note the
sole philosophical, or in this case ethical, principle enun

ciated. This principle was the undeniable one, that by

a contract no person can be committed to more than he

contracts to do. It was argued that this applies to the

proprietary contract as to all other contracts; and that

therefore the railway-shareholder cannot in equity be

committed by any act, either of a board of directors or

of his brother shareholders, to schemes not named in

the deed of incorporation. And it was contended that

the wide-spread ruin of individuals, and immense loss of

capital by the nation in making unremunerative lines,

would never have occurred had not the proprietary con

tract for making a specified railway, been habitually in

terpreted as though it were also a contract for making

unspecified railways.                                     #

Concerning, as it did, the interests of multitudinous

people, and containing many startling statements, this
article attracted much attention --much more attention

than anything else I ever wrote. It was eventually,

with my assent, republished by Messrs. Longman in
their " Traveller's Library." Some of the contained

revelations brought upon them the threat of an action

for libel.

My detention in London during the greater part of

                       524

*r- 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

were several visits to the Crystal Palace, then recently

opened, and then having a beauty which those who have

seen it only of late years can hardly imagine. A letter

to my friend Lott, expressing the wish that he would
                                          says -- " but
join me in visits to                                     suppose that
I
                     I

                                        it,

                                                                                 :

                                            I
                                             I

                                                 II

                                                                        it
                                                                                    is
nothing can neutralize your yearning for the hills

(joined with that of your wife) for this summer at least."
Succeeding paragraphs in the letter give, because of

the sundry things which they indicate.                   can -- perhaps
   " mean to get away from town as soon as

in little more than a fortnight. Not feeling that Umberslade

has been beneficial, am desirous of getting away to the sea

side as soon as may be; holding, as do, that                                            the best

policy to take prompt measures to get rid of even minor

bodily evils, lest they should entail greater ones, as they

always tend to do.

  " Will the dividends on the American shares be forthcom
ing before go? My reason for inquiring not that am
         I                                     I
               I
                                                           a

                                                                 is

                                                                     II
likely to have any need of them for some months to come, but
that there would, suppose, be some inconvenience in sending

the amount to me whilst at Paris.
   " quite sympathize in your wish for the renewal of our
I

pleasant excursions, than which there are few things have

enjoyed more. Next time hope that Mary Roe [his sister-
         I
in-law] will be one of our party.I;            have great faith in the

                                       ;

                            I
laughter cure and her nonsense makes good ingredient in

it. Tell your wife that she should be ashamed of herself

to be unwell at Quorn and that unless she forthwith reports

herself well, shall accuse her of plotting to get to the

lakes."

   Above, have spoken of the attractiveness of the       a
                                                                 a
Crystal Palace in its early days. Here from letter to
my mother dated 15 July, let me quote passage re
ferring to it.

                                          525

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

  " I have been once at Sydenham. It surpasses even my

expectations though I had seen it in progress. It is a fairy

land ; and a wonder surpassing all others."

   The degradation which it has since undergone, illus
trates the way in which too strenuous an effort to make
a thing good may end in making it bad. Had there not
been so vast an expenditure on the great terraces, the
immense flights of steps, the basins, fountains, and
water-towers, the dividend on the capital invested in
the Palace and its contents, would probably have been
sufficient to satisfy shareholders; and there would not
have been those frantic efforts to increase returns,
which have ended in making the place a compound of
bazaar, theatre, fancy fair, refreshment room, and tea-

garden.

  My matters of business having been transacted, I was

now free to commence my long contemplated work on
Psychology. Foregoing extracts from letters contain
two indications that during the spring there had arisen
the question -- Why remain in England while writing
the book? Why not write it abroad? Easy access to
other books was not requisite ; for its lines of thought
had scarcely anything in common with lines of thought
previously pursued ; and of such material as was needed
for illustration, my memory contained a sufficient stock.
Why not then go to France, spend the remainder of the
summer on the coast, and winter in Paris? Arrange

ments in pursuance of this scheme had been gradually

made.

  At the close of Chapter XIX, where my experience
of a remarkable coincidence was noted, I said that a still

526

&t. 33-34] WRITING FOR QUARTERLY REVIEWS

scribed. It occurred just before I departed for France.
While in London in the spring, I had been attended
during indisposition by Mr. Robert Dunn, a medical
man then residing in Norfolk Street, Strand. The small
claim he had against me I wished to settle before leav

ing. What happened is told in the following extract
from a letter to my father, dated 28 July.

   " I met with a most extraordinary coincidence since you
left. Calling on Mr. Dunn, the surgeon, I was told by the
young man in his surgery that he was out. I said I would
leave a card for him. I took one out and gave it to this
assistant. I noticed that when he read the name he raised

his eyebrows and gave a start. Judge my astonishment on
finding that his surprise arose from the fact that his name

too was Herbert Spencer. I would almost have taken an

oath that there was no other person with the same name.

That there should not only be one, but that I should meet

with him and hand my card to him, is one of those strange
events which we should call absurd in a romance."

   At that time its strangeness seemed much greater
than it seems now ; for in the days when my double and

I were baptized, the name Herbert, though now not

uncommon, was extremely rare. Up to the age of 30

I never met any one bearing it.

   The incident had a sequel. On my return from France

some time afterwards, I again called to pay Mr. Dunn's

account, and again Mr. Dunn was from home. Not
wishing to have any further trouble, I said I would pay
to this namesake of mine the amount due. The result
of course was that I obtained a bill made out to Herbert

Spencer and receipted by Herbert Spencer. I still have

it among my papers.
   Some years afterwards this second Mr. Herbert

                                                  527

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1853-54

Eventually he settled at Bradford, in Yorkshire, where
he still resided in 1886.

   [Afterwards there appeared on the scene a Dr. Herbert
Spencer, who now practices in London. From 1888 to
1899 the two names occurred together in The Medical

Register. Later came still another Herbert Spencer --a
pickpocket! (See daily papers for July 6, 1893.)]

528

                   CHAPTER XXVII.

                         MY SECOND BOOK.

                   1854--55- ^t. 34--35-

   Ly1ng about eight miles north-east of Dieppe,
Treport is a small sea-port at the mouth of a valley which
there makes a gap in the fine chalk cliffs extending along
the coast each way. Some three miles, perhaps, up the
valley, lies Ville d'Eu, containing, among other things,
a chateau which belonged to Louis Philippe, who had
also built himself a pavilion on the shore of Treport.

This Royal patronage it was which, I suppose, had
brought Treport into fashion as a sea-side resort --

fashion which had not, however, in 1854 risen high
enough to spoil it. My father had spent his midsummer
vacation there; and his account of the place led me to
choose it as my place of sojourn for the rest of the
summer.

   As the sea-side is found to be salubrious, the common
inference is that the nearer the water the more beneficial
the effect. This is a great mistake. The air of a beach,
especially during warm weather and when the tide is out,
is highly charged with vapour, and to many constitu
tions therefore enervating: differing widely in this re
spect from the air fifty or a hundred feet higher. My
attention was first drawn to this contrast by my experi

ences at Treport, where, on this first occasion, I settled

                  85 529

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

myself in the Grande Rue, some distance back from the

shore and high above it.

   The house had a garden running up the slope towards

the western cliffs, and at the top of this garden was a

summer-house which made an agreeable writing-room

for me in fine weather. Here I commenced The Princi
ples of Psychology. A letter to my father dated 7 Au

gust contains the paragraphs: --
  " I like the place very well. During some bad weather

which lasted over Friday and Saturday, I felt rather disgusted
and inclined to go away as soon as I could; but now that
the weather is fine again, I feel inclined to stay out the month,
as I had intended. The change of feeling is partly due also
to the fact that I have, during the last two days, after the

usual initial struggle, got into writing cue, and am fairly
started with the Psychology. Finding it at first rather repug

nant and being dissatisfied with what I did, I felt disgusted

with things in general ; but now that the inertia is overcome

....and I am quite satisfied with my work, things seem pleasant

enough

  I admire the coast and the cliffs very much ; and find plenty

to examine on the shore at ebb tide -- many things that are

new to me. On Sunday I saw a large piece of cliff fall--a

slice extending from top to bottom. It was just beyond the
end of the parade to the west of the town. I was on the

sands just facing it when it fell, and saw the whole process.

No harm was done. . . .

  I have not explored the country much at present ; save
going as far as Eu, where I walked on Sunday. I find that

that is the Chateau d'Eu which stands close behind the

Church.

   It is half past three and I must start off for my walk."
  A tall, finely-built man, obviously English, had several

times passed me in the town or on the cliffs, and we had
looked askance at one another. At the public room or

                                                   530

/Et. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

sabn on the beach, I one day handed him a newspaper.

This led to friendly interchange of remarks, and in a

week or so we took our afternoon walks together. It

was Mr. George Rolleston, in later years Professor
Rolleston of Oxford. Our intercourse enlivened my

stay; for besides being a man of wide culture he had a

pleasant facetiousness which gave zest to his talk. Prob

ably but for the acquaintanceship thus commenced, I

should not have remained at Treport as long as I did.

   Even as it was my impatience of monotony caused me

to leave it while the weather was still hot, and, as it

turned out, much earlier than I ought to have done.

   Curiosity was doubtless a spur to this premature de

parture. I was now 34 and had never seen Paris. Natu

rally the anticipated pleasure hastened my movements.

A letter home speaking of my migration, dated Paris
14 Rue de l'Universite, 31 August, 1854 says--

  " I left Treport on Tuesday ; on which day my month

expired, and arrived at Paris in the evening. The last two

days have been spent in seeking lodgings, and I have only
this morning fixed myself. I am on the south side of the river

and about ten minutes' walk from the Louvre and the

Tuileries. . . .

  I am certainly astonished at the beauty of Paris, though I

have as yet seen only part of it. The Boulevards at night are

especially astonishing. The whole aspect of things gives one
Ithe idea of a perpetual gala. Nevertheless
                                             cannot but

regard the enormous contrast between Paris and the prov

inces, in respect of advancement, as indicative of essential

unhealthiness. The state of the peasantry in my walks about
the country seemed to be very miserable -- scarcely anything

but cottages built of wattling and mud, and scarcely enough

             531

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

passers by. Paris has grown to what it has at the expense of

France. .. .

  I very much question whether I shall remain here as long
as I intended, or anything like it. My letters of introduction
are useless at present, as people are away from Paris. I

expect I shall feel rather lonely."

  This was the first of many instances showing that I
cannot bear to be cut off from my roots, and that I have
not patience enough to wait until I root myself afresh.

I soon get weary of sight-seeing, and cannot play the

flaneur with any satisfaction. Moreover, in this case,

the difficulty of carrying on conversation soon made

wearisome what little social intercourse was available.

When, with the effort to find words, there is joined the

consciousness that multitudinous blunders are being

made, there naturally  results a tendency to abridge in
terviews, even when    they are interesting, which most
interviews are not.    Hence the resolution notified in

a letter to my father dated 12 September, after only a

fortnight's stay.

" I think of leaving Paris at the end of this week and going

to Jersey. Almost every one is away at present, and though

I meet with great hospitality where it is possible, I feel the
want of society very much. It would be a month or more
before this would be remedied. Moreover I am not getting

on with my work so well as I wish. The quality is satisfac

tory but not the quantity. And further, Paris is still very hot

and is somewhat detrimental to me. I shall therefore, I

think, postpone my sojourn here till next year somewhat later

in the season ; and in the meantime go and set myself down

at St. Heliers, where I doubt not I shall get on well with my

Psychology, benefit in health, and probably get a sufficiency

of pleasant society. Will you in the course of the week write

                       532

JET- 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

mation you can about hotels ; so that I may know on my
arrival where to go. I got your letter this morning, and was

glad to do so, having not heard for so long. . . .

  I spent an evening with the Bradleys [some Derby friends
whom I accidentally met] and I join them this afternoon for
a walk in the Bois de Boulogne. I have, by means of letters

of introduction, made the acquaintance of the Editor of the
Revue Contemporaine, the Editor of the Revue Britannique,

Ithe editor of the Revue general de 'Architecture, and one of

the writers of the Revue des deux Mondes. The third, who

was just leaving for Germany, pressed me to go and make

use of his country house during his absence. I dine with his

family to-morrow.

   I was at the fete of St. Cloud on Sunday ; and was much

amused by the juvenility of the adults. The French never

entirely cease to be boys. I saw grey haired people riding

on whirligigs such as we have at our own fairs."

   To the list of those I made acquaintance with, should

have been added M. Littre, to whom Lewes had given
me a letter of introduction. What passed between us

I cannot now say. I remember only that he was a mild-

mannered man, who had the traits of a student and a

recluse. Judging from his appearance, I should have

thought he had not stamina enough for his amazing

achievement.

   The resolution above indicated was carried out; and

the next sign of my whereabouts is a letter dated Bree's
Boarding House, Jersey, 26 September. After giving
some account of a twenty-seven hours' journey, chiefly
by diligence, which had proved somewhat injurious, the

letter continues: --
   " St. Malo is a very remarkable and very picturesque old

             533

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

about it. I felt half inclined to stay awhile, but found at

the end of two days that it would be very dull, somewhat

expensive, and I think not very salubrious.
  I am delighted with the island and more particularly with

the coast. The formation is volcanic and there is a rugged-

ness of outline and structure, and a variety, that I have never

seen before. Add to which that from the hardness of the

rock, the water disintegrates it but little and remains quite
clear, which I have never before seen it do. The coast to

the S.W. (Portelet Bay and St. Brelades Bay) has delighted

me more than any coast I ever saw.

   The weather is very pleasant in fineness and temperature

and I have benefited considerably. There is not much society

here, however, as the season is coming to an end ; and what

there is I do not find very interesting. I am thinking of
leaving next week for Brighton, where I have some freinds,
Iwhere may stay awhile on my way back to town. I am
the more induced to do this because, though I am getting

on tolerably with the Psychology, the hours here do not suit

my writing well, and I see that it is needful for me to be in

lodgings to make the best of the day; and here lodgings

would be insufferably dull now that the place is emptying.

   If the weather is fine I think of leaving on Monday next;

but should the equinoctial gales set in, and last till after that

time, I may probably stay here somewhat longer, so as to get

a quiet passage."

  Of course, as for leaving Paris long before I had in

tended, so for soon leaving Jersey, there were assign

able reasons: there always are reasons for doing that
which one's feelings prompt. In either case, the dis

contented mood consequent on being far from friends,

was, I suspect, the chief cause. I can do pretty well with

out seeing friends for some time, if I am within hail of

them; but the consciousness that they are inaccessible

is soon followed by depression.

534

/Et. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

   The intention of migrating to Brighton took effect at

the time named. In a letter thence, dated 2 Clifton Ter
race, 2 October, occurs the following paragraph: --

  " The place is very full. Yesterday I met four persons I
knew. One was Louis Blanc, with whom I had a long walk
and argument. The day before I caught sight of Thackeray
talking to some one. Possibly I may see something of him
while here. I think I shall get on well with my writing, and

hope to benefit in all respects."

Answering a question from my father respecting the dis
cussion with Louis Blanc, a subsequent letter says --

   " My argument with Louis Blanc had nothing to do with

Socialism, but with centralization. He admits its injurious

effects in France ; but thinks that the fault lies in its applica

tion in wrong directions."

As the little man -- something under five feet I suppose
-- was animated, and my own mode of expression not

wanting in energy, we drew inquiring glances as we
walked up and down the parade. He spoke English re

markably well: having a good choice of words which he

put together correctly and articulated with great dis
tinctness -- greater distinctness, indeed, than is usual

among ourselves. Moreover, he had acquired the

English cadence much more nearly than foreigners gen

erally do.

  I am reminded of a story which he told concerning a
dreadful typographical blunder. The story has not, I

think, become generally known; and as it is too good to

be lost, I repeat it here. At that time, or not long be
fore, lived a French lady-novelist who wrote as " La

Comtesse     ." The blunder occurred in the closing

sentence of one of her stories: a sentence which was

                            535

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                           [1854-55

sentence ran-- " Bicn connaltre I'amour il faut sortir de
soi." Instead of this the printers made it--" Bien con
naltre Vamour il faut sortir le soir."

Correspondence shows that I was in town before the

end of October. Giving the address 4 St. Ann's Ter
race, Acacia Road, I wrote home --

  " I enclose a note which I have received since returning
to town, relative to a reprint from " Social Statics." I shall

probably consent * * *

  I am tolerably well, though not rid of the palpitations,
which I suppose will now always continue more or less.

However, as there is no organic mischief and they give me

Ino annoyance worth mentioning, I suppose must not com

plain."

  In a letter dated 2 November, occurs the paragraph :--
  " I am just finishing one of the four divisions of the Psy

chology --the " General Synthesis." This, with the Universal

Postulate, which with a few additions forms the first part

or " General Analysis," finishes two parts. I am now about

to commence the " Special Analysis." "

As thus shown, the four parts were not written in the
IIIorder they followed when printed. Part
                                           was written

first: the reason being, I believe, that it contained the

fundamental conception which pervades the entire work;

and I was anxious to put this conception down on paper
in its complete form. This having been done, I reverted

to the arrangement of the parts as they were intended

to stand; and wrote the remaining ones in the order

I, II, IV.
  On December 3, I wrote responding to my father's

expressed wish that I should go down to Derby for a

time. One reason for assenting was want of society.

536

.*t. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

people in town; and of those who were here when I came,

some are now gone."

Passing to other matters the letter continues: --

   " The Psychology is going on very well, though not alto

gether so fast as I could wish. The theory of reasoning is

working out beautifully. . . .
   You would no doubt regret to hear of the death of Professor

Forbes. I am very sorry indeed. He was not only a valu

able man of science, but also extremely likable as a man ;

and I had hoped to cultivate the friendship that had com

menced between us. Few men seem to have been more

universally regretted."

   In pursuance of the intention indicated in this letter,

I presently went home, and, spending Christmas there,

remained through part of January. No clue to any oc

currences is given by correspondence, save by a letter

from my father to my mother, who was away on a

Christmas visit. It appears from this that I was unwell,

and sometimes got no sleep till five o'clock in the morn

ing: a sign, I suppose, that thinking and writing were

beginning to tell upon me.

  Towards the end of January I returned to town. It

seems that my chief purposes in doing so were to ar

range with the printer, and, if possible, to find some pub
lisher who would take the whole or part of the risk of

my forthcoming book. While referring to these objects,

a letter which I have headed simply Monday, but to

which my father has fortunately added the date, 29 Jan.
1855, also contains a passage of importance.

   " I got the inclosed this morning relative to the review of
Comte for the Edinburgh. It is, you will see, favourable as

             537

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY              [1854-55

Walton and Maberly, the publishers, whom he recommends.

So I shall probably be in negotiation with them in the course

of this week.

  Chapman was wanting me to write an article when I saw

him the other day, on the Maine Law and the Sunday Beer-
IBill. He asked whether
                              ever meant to do any more

review-writing : evidently being anxious to get something

from me. I declined the article he mentioned, but told [him]

I would write him one on The Cause of All Progress, as

soon as I was at liberty. If Walton & Co. do not bid for an
edition of the Psychology, I may do this article forthwith."

This last paragraph gives a date to the inception of

the general doctrine of evolution; or rather, it shows

that this inception was not later than January, 1855.
For the article named in it was the one eventually pub
lished under the title -- " Progress : its Law and Cause."

Doubtless it was during the preceding autumn that the

change from homogeneity to heterogeneity, which we

have already seen was in course of being recognized as

characterizing the change from lower to higher in sev

eral diverse groups of phenomena, was recognized as

characterizing this change in all groups of phenomena.

And doubtless this development of the conception took
place while writing the " General Synthesis;" two chap

ters of which trace, among mental phenomena, the prog

ress from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous, and

two other chapters of which exhibit the progress in spe

ciality and in complexity : both involving the same trait.
   The next letter to my father, which is dated " Feb.

(what day I can't say) 55," in its first paragraph implies

an inclosed letter from Sir G. C. Lewis. The proposed

article on Comte, to which this referred, was obviously

the second of the two named in the last chapter as hav

ing been originally planned.

538

^t. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

   " You see that the paper for The Edinburgh is negatived

by a pre-engagement. As he invites me, I think I shall pro

pose one on Transcendental Physiology ; but not for immedi

ate execution.

   I dined at the Coopers on Friday last in company with

Professor Owen and his wife, and went with them afterwards

to hear him give a lecture at the Royal Institution, on the

relation between Man and the anthropoid apes. It was the
same thing that I had heard before in his lectures [at the

College of Surgeons], and anything but logical. . . .

   I have had some negotiations with publishers. Walton and

Maberly were prevented from going into the matter by

religious difficulties. I am now in negotiation with Smith
and Elder. I like very much what I have seen of them,

and think it not unlikely from their mode of treating the

matter that they will make an offer. They have got

Parts I & III now in their hands to form an opinion of the

book."

   After some weeks, during which my hopes had been
somewhat raised by Messrs. Smith & Elder's intimation

that they took a " favourable " view, I received their

proposals. These, to my surprise, practically left me to
bear all the risks, with but a remote chance of benefit

should the book succeed. In my letter closing the nego

tiation, I remember saying that if such were their
" favourable " terms, I was curious to know what their

unfavourable terms might be.
   But it was absurd to expect that a publisher could be

found who would speculate in a work of so unpopular a
kind. Very few grave books pay; most of them fail to
return their expenses; and one on so uninviting a sub

ject as psychology, by an author not bearing any en

dorsement, was sure to entail a loss. I ought to have

            539

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

have to publish at my own risk; or, to speak definitely,

should have to pay a penalty for publishing.

   The need for economy now became increasingly mani

fest. I had done no remunerative writing since the pre

ceding midsummer; and the non-receipt of an antici

pated dividend on certain American railway-shares

which I held, reduced my resources below the amount
I had counted upon. It was thus clear that unless I took

precautions, my purse would be empty before my book

was finished. Leaving a quantity of MS. with the

printer, I therefore, in the middle of March, returned

to Derby; where I could live at much less cost than I

could live in London.

   An uneventful three months now followed. Concern

ing my life at Derby until the close of June, there is

scarcely anything to say. The daily routine, and the

signs of coming bad health, are the sole things I re

member.

  I spent something like five hours a day in writing:

beginning between nine and ten, continuing till one,
pausing for a few minutes to take some slight refresh
ment, usually a little fruit, and resuming till three; then

sallying out for a country walk and returning in time for

dinner betwen five and six. I had often warned my

friends against overwork, and had never knowingly
transgressed. Five hours per day did not seem too much ;
and had there been no further taxing of brain, no mis

chief might have been done. But I overlooked the fact

that during these months at Derby, as during all the
months since the preceding August, leisure hours had
been chiefly occupied in thinking. Especially while

54°

jEt. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

sequent on moderate exercise, produced in me then, as

always, a flow of ideas often difficult, if not impossible, to

stop. Moreover the printers were at my heels, and

proofs coming every few days had to be corrected: tasks

which must have occupied considerable portions of my

evenings. Practically, therefore, the mental strain went

on with but litle intermission.

   That mischief was being done ought to have been

clear to me. A broad hint that I was going wrong was
this:-- One of Thackeray's stories --The Newcomes I

think it must have been-- was in course of issue in a

serial form. When a new part came out I obtained it

from a local library, and, reserving it till the evening,

then read it through. As often as I did this I got no

sleep all night, or, at any rate, no sleep till towards
morning. My appearance, too, should have made me

pause. A photograph still existing, which was taken

during the spring, has a worn anxious look; showing
that waste was in excess of repair. It seems strange that

such knowledge as I had of physiology, did not force on
me the inference that I was injuring myself, and that I

should inevitably suffer.

  But giving no heed to these warnings I thoughtlessly

went on without cessation; eager to get the book done,

and, I suppose, hoping that rest would soon re-establish

my ordinary health. Towards the end of June there
remained but three chapters to write. These were writ

ten elsewhere.

   An artist, and head of the School of Art in Derby,
Mr. A. O. Deacon, was about to spend his midsummer
vacation in North Wales. I had been on friendly terms

             541

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                                                     [1854-55

agreement. Travelling together as far as Conway, wea
there parted -- he for Llandudno with his two boys and
                                                         it,
I for Bettws-y-coed-- after having arranged to meet
a
subsequently.  a

   I had fixed upon Bettws as a place where I should getI

some fishing to occupy leisure times; but, as experience

soon proved, the expectation was an ill-grounded one.

Experience soon proved, moreover, that my vain hope
had taken me to an undesirable place; for Bettws, be

ing at the bottom of a close valley, is very enervating.

A further sign of the coming disaster commenced here

and continued afterwards; namely lying awake for an
hour or two in the middle of each night.

   A migration at the end of the week took me to Capel
Curig, or rather to a hamlet half a mile to the East of

Bryntich, where was small hotel frequented by artists
who had not yet won their spurs. Two were staying
there. One of them at that time unknown but now well
known, was Mr. Alfred Hunt. As was interested in
art, and apt to give utterance to my heresies, there re

sulted good deal of lively talk between us, which use
fully diverted little the current of my thoughts.

    The weather being fine, my writing while in Wales
was done almost wholly out of doors. Furnished with

   pocket inkstand daily started off, manuscript in hand,
for ramble among the hills or along the banks of the

Llugwy; and, from time to time finding convenient
place, lay down and wrote paragraph or two. The op
ening of the chapter on " The Feelings " was written
while reclining on the shore of Llyn Cwlya, secluded
lake some two or three miles from Bryntich. A week
or so previously, while at Bettws, this practice had led
a
        a

                     I

                                                   a
                                                                                              a

                                                                                                  a

542

/Et. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

eyes fixed on the paper, I raised my head and saw, a few

feet off in front, a semi-circle of sheep intently gazing
at me: doubtless puzzled by a behaviour unparalleled in

their experience. I was at the time busy with the chap
ter on " Reason," and had I thought of it might have
used the incident as an illustration. For it is a truth

made manifest not only by comparing lower animals

with men, but also by comparing different grades of men
with one another, that whereas inferior intelligences go
on making multitudinous observations to little purpose
(drawing either no conclusions or wrong conclusions),
superior intelligences, from a few observations properly

put together, quickly draw right conclusions.

   After some ten days at Bryntich, I removed to a place

a few miles higher up the valley, where Deacon and I

had agreed to meet.

This place was Pen-y-Gwyrid --a place of sad memo

ries to me; for it was here that my nervous system finally

gave way. Deacon failed to keep his appointment:
writing me a letter from Nant Mill saying that he had

commenced a picture there, and could not leave. The

result was that, in the absence of all other guests at the

hotel, I was alone; and thinking went on during meals

and in the evening, as well as while I was at work and
while I was walking. Some days seemed to have passed

without manifest mischief, as witness the following pas
sages from a letter to my mother, dated 16 July: --

" I send you a line to say that I am well, and enjoying
                                             I am at present
...myself as much as hard work will let me.
                                              It is a far finer
staying just under the foot of Snowdon.
Imountain than expected. The weather to-day is wet and

             543

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

   I leave this on Wednesday next for Beddgelert, where I
shall probably stay a week and from whence I shall probably

ascend Snowdon in company with Deacon."

But before this removal the mischief was done. One
morning soon after beginning work, there commenced
a sensation in my head-- not pain, nor heat, nor fulness,
nor tension, but simply a sensation, bearable enough
but abnormal. The seriousness of the symptom was

at once manifest to me. I put away my manuscript

and sallied out, fishing-rod in hand, to a mountain
tarn in the hills behind the hotel, in pursuance of a

resolve to give myself a week's rest ; thinking that would

suffice.

   Next day came a walk to Beddgelert. That place

being much shut in, proved, as I might have known it
would, very enervating. After two days I left for Car

narvon and afterwards for Bangor; taking up my abode

at Garth Point for a week. While there I managed to

finish everything but the chapter on " The Will," with
which the work ends.

   The close of the month found me back at home ; where

this last chapter was completed under great difficulties.

I alternated between house and garden: writing a few

sentences and then pacing up and down for a time to

dissipate head-sensations -- a persistence in physiological
wrong-doing which brought on further serious symp

toms.

   Meanwhile the printers had overtaken me. There
remained only to see the last proofs; make arrange
ments with the publishers; give directions about adver
tisements and the distribution of the work for review ;

                                544 *

Sx. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

back on these past days I am struck by my frequent
imprudences) I went to London to transact these mat

ters of business. Without any serious delay, everything

might have been done by letter; and I ought to have

remembered that London was not the place in which to

find the quiet I needed.

   During my short stay in London there did, indeed,

occur an excitement which exacerbated my disorder.
Meeting one afternoon Mr. F. O. Ward, a friend named

in a previous chapter, I was pressed by him to join a
dinner-party which he was giving that evening. I re

sisted: telling him of my break-down and of my conse

quent unfitness. But he was urgent and I weakly
yielded. In a letter to my father I find an account of

the dinner and its effect.

   " I foolishly allowed myself to be persuaded to dine last

night with Ward, one of the chief sanitary men, to meet Owen

and Chadwick, and Rawlinson (late sanitary commissioner
in the Crimea), Simon, the sanitary officer of the City of

London, and other notables. I had the audacity (to the

 immense amusement of Owen and other unconcerned guests)
to make an attack upon all these sanitary leaders --charging

them with garbling evidence, misleading the public, &c. &c.

 The fight lasted the whole evening, and on two or three

occasions I raised an immense laugh at their expense. But
I Ias expected, I paid for it : got no sleep all night.

   I start to-morrow morning; and doubt not the sea-air will

 soon set all right."

   This expectation proved, alas! immeasurably too san

guine. I had no adequate conception of the damage

which preceding months had done. The pursuit of

health, now commenced, was fated to be unsuccessful;

for health, in the full sense of the word, was never again

to be overtaken.

            36 545

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

   Here, before narrating the incidents of that long
interval which, in so far as concerns my active life, was
a blank, let me say something about The Principles of
Psychology, and the reception it met with.

   At the time when it was published, extremely few were

prepared even to entertain its fundamental conception,
much less to agree with it ; and nearly all were, in virtue
of their established convictions, distinctly antagonistic.
Hence the average criticisms were pretty certain to be
unsympathetic. Two critics, indeed, were fully appre

ciative -- Mr. G. H. Lewes and Dr. J. D. Morell. Most

were as civil as could be expected considering the dif
ference of view. Some were decidedly hostile. Among
the last was Mr. R. H. Hutton, who made the book
the text for an article entitled " Modern Atheism," pub

lished in the National Review, a then-existing quarterly
organ of the Unitarians, of which he was one of the

editors. A review so entitled was of course damaging;

and the more so because it gave the cue to some other
reviewers. Among all the criticisms however, favour
able or unfavourable, none gave a systematic account

of the book. Anyone who, though possessed by the be
liefs then current alike in the scientific world and the
world at large, had thought it worth while to make
a brief exposition, might have written somewhat as

follows :--

   We are not about to review this work after the ordinary
manner of reviewing; for where dissent is complete there
can be none of the usual mingling of approval with disap
proval. Our attitude towards the work is something like that
of the Roman poet to whom the poetaster brought some verses
with the request that he would erase any parts he did not like,

546

^t. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

lutely the entire doctrine which the book contains; and for

the sufficient reason that it is founded on a fallacy. It takes

for granted the hypothesis, repudiated by all men of science

at the present day, that the various species of animals and

plants have arisen through the successive modifications slowly
produced by the working together of natural causes --" the

development hypothesis " as it is called. It is true that

throughout the greater part of the volume this hypothesis

is not named ; but towards its close Mr. Spencer distinctly
avows his adhesion to it: apparently implying that he had

not originally intended to do this, but at length found that

the course of his argument necessitated the avowal. It seems

strange that Mr. Spencer should have supposed that men

intelligent enough to read his book, should not be intelligent

enough to see that the development hypothesis is tacitly

implied in almost every page.

   Under the circumstances of the case we shall therefore limit
ourselves to a resume of these " principles of psychology " so

fallaciously based. In doing this we shall not follow the

order adopted by Mr. Spencer, which seems to us an ill-

judged one. Taking first Part III, with which the work

ought to have commenced, we will afterwards describe in
succession Parts IV, II, and I.
IIIThis " General Synthesis," as Part
                                       is named, sets out

with the proposition that a truth which any group of phenom

ena presents in common with the most nearly allied group

of phenomena, must be its most general truth. The phenom

ena most nearly allied to those of mind are those of bodily

life: the two being specialized divisions of the phenomena

of life at large. Life, Mr. Spencer contends, is made up of

changes connected in such ways as to have a certain corre

spondence with connected actions and agencies in the envi

ronment ; or, in other words, it is a continuous adjustment of

inner relations to outer relations. He says that the degree of

life varies as the degree of correspondence ; and then he traces

            547

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                              [1854-55

of life, in a series of chapters in which it is described " as
                              "      " as                                  "
direct   and  homogeneous                    direct but    heterogeneous       ;
                                  ;
" as extending in space " ; " as extending in time " ; " as
                              "                            generality " ;  " as
increasing in speciality            "as  increasing    in
                                 ;

increasing in complexity &c." The general argument run

ning through these chapters is that the form of life which we

call mind, emerges out of bodily life and becomes distin

guished from       in proportion as these several traits of the
         a
correspondence become more marked.it,                                      is is

   In the next part, " Special Synthesis," an endeavourisis
made to show in what way this gradually increasing corre
spondence between relations among changes in the organism:
and relations among phenomena in the environment,
established. The first proposition that the changes consti a
tuting intelligence are in the main distinguished from the
changes constituting bodily life by being serial only, instead
of being both serial and simultaneous their seriality becom
ing more marked as intelligence increases, and becoming con
spicuous in the highest intellectual processes, such as reason

ing. The next proposition is that to effect correspondence

between the relations among mental states and the relations

among external phenomena,            it      needful that the tendencies
                                         is

of the various mental states to cohere in consciousness, must

be proportionate to the degrees of constancy of the connexions

between the environing phenomena they represent. And the

third proposition             that the establishment of this kind

of adjustment between inner relations among states and

outer relations among phenomena,                       step by step effect
                                             it is
ed by the experiences of the outer relations among pheis

nomena. The familiar doctrine of association here un

dergoes       great extension; for                         held that not

only in the individual do ideas become connected when

in experience the things producing them have repeatedly

occurred together, but that such results of repeated occur

rences accumulate in successions of individuals the effects of
                                                              :

                                     548

Mt. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

of the nervous system. Succeeding chapters apply this theory
to the interpretation of " Reflex Action," " Instinct," " Mem
ory," " Reason," " The Feelings," and " The Will." It is
needless here to follow the argument in detail. Suffice it to
say that beginning with those simple automatic actions carried
on by finished nervous connexions, which are of such

nature that on a stimulus being applied the appropriate motion
irresistibly follows ; and passing on to instincts, which are
regarded as compound reflex actions in which a combined
cluster of stimuli produce automatically a combined cluster of
motions; Mr. Spencer argues that in proportion as the con
nected antecedents and consequents in the environment be
come more involved, and in proportion as the connected
clusters of internal changes, answering to them respectively,
also become more involved, the sequences, alike internal and
external, are at once less frequent and less unvarying in
character. The result is that the clusters of internal changes,

no longer being exactly adjusted and unhesitating, there occur
brief times during which certain of them take place hesitat
ingly or slowly, and become appreciable parts of a conscious

ness; and thus conscious perception, memory, reason &c.

become nascent. Evidently the theory everywhere implied
in this part, as in the preceding part, is that all types of mind,
animal and human, are products of a perpetual converse
between organism and environment ; the effects of which are,
generation after generation, registered as minute structural
changes in the nervous system ; and that along the various lines
of descent which have ended in the various types of animals
now existing, there have been thus produced those different
nervous organizations adjusted to their respective habits of
life.

   Of course if Mind has been actually built up by this process,
it can be, if not actually, yet theoretically, unbuilt by a
reverse process. If it is composed of inner relations adjusted

to outer relations, then it can be resolved into such inner

            549

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

assumes it; and he seems to have written the part entitled
" Special Analysis," for the purpose of exhibiting the reso
lution of Mind into such components. Limiting himself to
intellectual actions, he begins with the most involved of these
--compound quantitative reasoning. This he aims to show is
at every step a recognition of equality or inequality between
relations severally existing between two clusters of equal
relations. Descending through less involved forms of quan
titative reasoning and coming down to ordinary reasoning,
he argues that this differs only in the respect that the com
pared relations, no longer of measurable kinds, are now
recognized not as equal or unequal but as like or unlike. In

a succeeding chapter on classification, naming, and recogni
tion, he finds no difficulty in showing that these mental acts
are effected by the assimilation of clusters of relations (along
with the impressions between which they exist), to their likes
in past experience. There come next a number of chapters
in which a kindred analysis of our perceptions is attempted --
first those of special objects, then those of body, as presenting
its several classes of attributes, and then those of space, time,

motion and resistance : the aim throughout being to show that
in every process of perception, a cluster of mental states, held
together in relations like previously known relations, is
partially or wholly classed with clusters previously known
that were similarly composed. Mr. Spencer then proceeds to

the relations themselves, grouping them as relations of Co-
intension, Co-extension, Co-existence, Con-nature. At length
he comes down to the ultimate relations of Likeness and

Unlikeness, out of the variously compounded consciousnesses
of which, he contends that all acts of intelligence are framed.
In the closing chapter he insists upon this " unity of composi
tion," as he calls it: regarding it as evidence of the truth of
his analysis, and apparently regarding it also as justifying

his general theory. For if Mind is resolvable into continually

established relations among states of consciousness, the con

550

**. 34-35]  MY SECOND BOOK

adjustment of inner relations to outer relations, and that

Mind emerges from it as fast as the adjustment becomes more

extended, more involved, and more complete.
   The remaining part, " General Analysis," which in the work

itself comes first, is, it seems, an elaboration of an Essay
entitled " The Universal Postulate," originally published in

The Westminster Review. Its subject-matter, otherwise de

scribed, is the ultimate criterion of belief; and its thesisliiss

that in the last resort we must accept as true a proposition ooff I

which the negation is inconceivable. One might have eexx- I

pected that in discussing this topic, there would be no occasion

for reference to the theory pervading the rest of the book.

Nevertheless it is brought in by implication. Dealing with

beliefs as products of experience, and contending that those

beliefs of which the terms have been most frequently con

nected in experience are those which have the best warrant,

Mr. Spencer holds that those of which the terms have been

connected in experience perpetually, and without exception,

are those of which the negations become inconceivable. And

it appears that, regarding the effects wrought on the nervous

system as transmissible ; and thinking that these effects pro

duce, by accumulation, organic connexions; he holds that

those which have been repeated perpetually and uniformly

in the experiences of all preceding  generations  produce
" forms of thought."

   Succinctly stated, these are the doctrines set forth in The

Principles of Psychology. It seems not improbable that here
and there a credulous reader will be misled by the coherence

and symmetry of the theory into acceptance of it : forgetting

that it is based on an assumption which is not only entirely

unwarranted, but which, directly at variance with Revela

tion, is rejected alike by all people of common sense and by

all authorities in Science who have expressed their opinions.

It is, indeed, strange that any one should have had the cour

age, not to say the audacity, to base an elaborate theory

            551

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1854-55

  that hereafter Mr. Spencer's volume will be relegated to a
   shelf on which are grouped together the curiosities of specu

   lation.

      Some such review as this might, with a little license
  of imagination, be supposed to have been written when

 the work was published in 1855. I say with a little li

  cense of imagination, because any one accepting, as the
  review implies, the beliefs concerning the organic world
  current at that time, would have been unlikely to bestow
  so much trouble in making an abstract. The days were
  days when the special-creation doctrine passed almost

( unquestioned. Though for the interpretation of the

  structure of the Earth's crust, miracle was no longer in
  voked, it was invoked for the interpretation of the fossils
  imbedded in the Earth's crust. This was unhesitatingly
  regarded by nearly all as a rational compromise; and
  any one expressing dissent was liable to be laughed at.

552

                   CHAPTER XXVIII.

                    EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST.

                     1855--56. /Et. 35--36.

   Treport had proved so beneficial during my month's
stay the year before, that I decided to revisit it after
my break-down. My friend Lott, who was invalided by

a lame knee, agreed to follow me ; and he arrived at the

end of August, after I had been at Treport about ten

days.
   Sometimes basking on the shingle, sometimes collect

ing specimens for two aquaria which we established --
now taking rides and now spending an hour at the Salon
near the sea, or at J1e shooting-gallery, we remained
at Treport till Sept. 18, with varying results in respect
of health, and then returned by way of Calais and

Dover. Next day we parted at Folkestone, where I re

mained a week.
   Huxley, then recently married, was spending his

honeymoon at Tenby; and I wrote to him making in

quiries about the place. The result was that at the end

of the week I journeyed thither. Letters show that I

had hoped to benefit by going out dredging, and also

by the pleasures of companionship. But I was disap
pointed. My state was such that I had to shun society:

being unable to bear more than a few minutes' con

                                                  553

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                  [1855-56

life, looking  at neither  books nor newspapers  "      and  I
                                                     ;

enlivened my solitude by exploring St. Catherine's Rock

and its caves for creatures to fill my aquarium, and by

watching their habits.

   Reading the correspondence of these and subsequent

months has somewhat changed my conception of my
self. Having all through life had an even flow of spirits,

unvaried by either elation or depression, I have usually

supposed that I tended towards neither sanguine nor

despondent views. But my statements and anticipa

tions at this time make me think that I must be consti

tutionally sanguine. On the average, letters give the

impression that satisfactory progress is being made, and

that recovery may be looked for in a short time --an im

pression not at all congruous with my recollections.

Here is a paragraph from a letter of 10 October, which

I quote partly in illustration of this trait and partly be

cause of the fact it contains.
   " The average of my nights is better, though they vary a

good deal. Last night was my best for a long while, in

consequence apparently, of my having adopted a new and

more efficient mode of keeping up the cerebral circulation

through the night. I wet the head with salt and water; put over

it a flannel night cap ; and over that a waterproof cap which

prevents evaporation. The effect is that of a poultice. Last

night I did not lose more than two hours between 10 and 7.
I awoke in the middle of the night, and by repeating the
wetting went to sleep again in about an hour. If this plan
continues to answer I shall do very well ; for sleep is all that

is wanted."

   But it did not continue to answer, and yet there is no

mention of its failure. It may be that I was anxious to

put the best face on matters when writing home. That

                           554

^t. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

a part cause of these unduly favourable reports, I am

the more led to suspect on finding no reference to the

serious exacerbation of my disorder produced, when at

Treport, by reading a little too much while under the
influence of quinine, joined with that of other tonic
treatment, and producing a state of hot head which

lasted for several days. This imprudence it was, I be

lieve, which made permanent a morbid condition that

might otherwise have been but temporary.

  At the beginning of November I returned to Derby,
much worse than I was when I left it early in August.

   Not many years previously had settled at Notting
ham, Dr. W. H. Ransom -- a physician who presently
became the leader of his profession in that place. My

father suggested that I should consult him, and we went

over together. Dr. Ransom was a specially fit adviser;
for he had himself been a nervous sufferer. Attainment
of the highest honours at his examination had been fol
lowed by a collapse from which it took a long time to

recover.

   He entered very fully into my case, telling me for my

guidance various results of his own experience. I re

member the shock given me by the statement that two
years had elapsed before he was able to resume work:
the implication being that the like might be the case with

me. Ah! if I had known what the future was to bring
forth, how I should have rejoiced over the prospect of
a termination to my disorder --even though delayed for

that interval.

  Of his various suggestions I need here name only that

which determined my movements for some time after.

            555

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

Iin a farm-house, where, among other things, could

have the use of a horse. On naming Devonshire as a

region towards which I had leanings (letters show that
I had thought of crossing over from Tenby) he de

murred somewhat on the ground of climate ; but as he

did not insist much on this objection I decided to go

there.

  A brief interval elapsed before an advertisement in

the Devonshire papers had any result ; and then the re

sult was only a single reply. This promised fairly well,

and I therefore journeyed to the south-west early in

December.

  The place at which I settled myself for a time, was

Well House, Ideford, near Chudleigh. Besides myself

there were, as inmates, an ensign from India on fur

lough, and his brother. Joined to the family, which in
cluded a governess, these made a sufficiently lively cir

cle. A letter home, dated December 11, says--
  " I have been riding yesterday and to day, and have

enjoyed it much. The scenery all round is very beautiful --

more so even than I had expected. So far the climate is any
thing but relaxing: it has been a sharp frost ever since I have

been here. Last year there was a month's skating on the

water in Ugbrook Park, close by here --one of the most pic
turesque parks I have seen."

And then comes a sentence illustrative of my sanguine-

ness :--" At the present rate I shall soon be quite right ;
for I feel quite well, and sleep pretty nearly as well as I

ordinarily do."

   Daily rides along the Devonshire lanes, now to Bish-

opsteignton, Teignmouth, or Dawlish, and now on the

           556

^t. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

occasional hours were passed with the microscope, inIait,

the use of which I was trying an experiment. Thinkingaa
                                                       a
that in many cases greater power of penetration is the                  a;
need, rather than more exact definition of such part of
I
an object as lies in focal plane, it occurred to me that
instead of the object glass having a wide aperture, the
aperture should be the smallest which would admit a

sufficiency of light. I therefore had made for me a

movable cap to the object glass, having in its centre an
opening about the size of a pin-hole ; and, for illumina

tion, I used direct sunlight passed through oiled tissue

paper, to destroy the parallelism of the rays. The ex

periment was not without success; but I was, I believe,

deterred from prosecuting it by finding that the rays

diffracted by the edges of the hole interfered too much.

   Let me name here an instructive fact which I observed
during my stay. On Christmas Eve I thought I would

amuse my host's little daughter by showing her how a
holly-berry with a pin thrust through will dance about
in vertical jet of air, in the same way that ball does
when placed in jet of water. The farmer, man of
substance but of very little culture, was looking on
and expected that he would show astonishment and

curiosity on seeing for the first time so anomalous
behaviour. To my surprise he did neither; but dis

played absolute indifference. Many years afterwards
   was reminded of this experience by the accounts given

of the comparative indifference which low savages dis
play, when shown looking-glasses, watches, or other re
markable products of civilized life. Surprise and curi

osity are not traits of the utterly ignorant, as they are
commonly supposed to be, but of the partially cultured
                                    ;

                               557

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY   [1855-56

tions of mythologists. They tacitly assume that the

primitive man wonders at those great natural changes
in the Heavens and on the Earth which he daily wit
nesses, and tries to account for them. But it is quite
otherwise. He does not concern himself about them

any further than as they affect satisfaction of his mate

rial deeds. If a member of the Max Muller school

would cross-examine a few rustics concerning the
Moon's phases, he would see how baseless is his suppo
sition respecting the mental states of the early races
whose ideas he so definitely describes. No villager mar
vels at the monthly changes of the Moon ; nor does he
ever think of asking from an educated person how they

are caused. Nay, if an explanation is volunteered he
shows no interest. All through life he looks at these

perpetual transformations with entire indifference: un

less, indeed, in so far as he fancies they affect the

weather.

  Before the end of the first week in January I had be

come impatient with my slow progress at Ideford and
decided to try Marychurch near Torquay. After two

days there I concluded that, except in frosty weather,

the climate of Devonshire was too relaxing; and there
upon decided to go home and find some place in the
North.

   A change of decision which took place while on my
way, is indicated in the following letter ; which I give in

full because all parts of it are relevant to one or other

point of interest.

Lanes Farm, Brimsfield Nr. Painswick.

" My dear Potter                      22 Jany. '56.

Your letter reached me in Devonshire --the last region

                    558

^t. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

to which I had wandered in search of health --just as I was

leaving in consequence of finding the climate too mild. On

my journey towards home it occurred to me to try the
Cotswold Hills, which seemed likely enough to furnish a

Ikeen bracing air ; and have for the last ten days been seeking

an abode.

  I postponed replying to your letter until I had settled
myself; and now that I have done so, I find the place and
climate so unsuitable that I am thinking of going on Friday.

  I should very much like to accept your kind invitation
before going back to Derby ; but I am almost afraid to do so.
I am obliged to shun intellectual society : being unable to bear

the excitement of it without injury. It seems beforehand

very easy to avoid argument or disquisition ; but in practice I

find it next to impossible when the temptation arises. It will,

I think, be most prudent to relinquish the various gratifica
tions which your invitation holds out, until I can partake of

them with less risk.

  I am perfectly willing to try your remedy for rationalism.

Indeed, marriage has been prescribed as a means of setting

my brain right in quite another sense : the companionship of
a wife being considered the best distraction --in the French

not in the English meaning of the word. But the advice is

difficult to follow. I labour under the double difficulty that
my choice is very limited and that I am not easy to please.
Moral and intellectual beauties do not by themselves suffice to

attract me; and owing to the stupidity of our educational sys

tem it is rare to find them united to a good physique. More

over there is the pecuniary difficulty. Literature, and espe

cially philosophical literature, pays badly. If I married I

should soon have to kill myself to get a living. So, all things

considered, the chances are that I shall continue a melancholy

Ccelebs to the end of my days.

  Putting two and two together, I have my suspicions
respecting the authorship of Laura Gay. But I will say

            559

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY            [1855-56

too uncertain to admit of the copy which has been sent to
me at Derby being forwarded. With kindest regards to Mrs.

Potter and yourself,  I am

                            very sincerely yours

                            Herbert Spencer."

In response to a letter from Mrs. Potter, received a few

days later, re-inforcing the advice given in the letter re

plied to as above, I wrote--

" Thank you very heartily for your expression of sympathy

and interest in my welfare. It is long since I have received

a letter that has given me so much pleasure. Friendly words

are so generally forms rather than realities, that when they

bear the stamp of genuineness they produce an unusual effect.
   You are doubtless perfectly right in attributing my present

state to an exclusively intellectual life; and in prescribing ex

ercise of the affections as the best remedy. No one is more

thoroughly convinced than I am that bachelorhood is an unnat
ural and very injurious state. Ever since I was a boy (when
I was unfortunate in having no brothers or sisters) I have
been longing to have my affections called out. I have been

in the habit of considering myself but half alive ; and have

often said that I hoped to begin to live some day. But my

wandering, unsettled life, my unattractive manners towards

those in whom I feel no interest, my habit of arguing and of

offending opponents by a disrespectful style of treating them,

have been so many difficulties in my way."

  The unsuitableness of the Brimsfield climate I had

prematurely inferred from the fact that the high land of

the Cotswolds was frequently wrapt in low-lying clouds

at a time when the Severn valley was clear ; and I sup

posed that this kind of dampness was enervating. But

it proved not to have the same effect as the warm damp

                      560

&i. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

the second week in February, was chiefly due to the de
parture of another invalid who had been staying at

Lanes Farm. This left me companionless : a state of

things I always found injurious. Less than three weeks
at Derby sufficed. The impatience which I suppose was

one result of my disorder sent me back to Brimsfield;

and I find a letter dated 1 March, the day after my ar
rival there, in which occurs the paragraph -- " I have just
had my first bout of hard work and my first doze. I

feel well and strong and tolerably stupid."

   Now exploring the neighbouring country and visiting
on one occasion the remains of a Roman villa, now

sauntering along the hedge-sides with gun in hand,

now splitting up tree-stumps (which occupation, as

having some little interest, proved the best exercise I
tried) and now riding quietly along the lanes, I passed

another three weeks at Brimsfield. Neither there nor

in Devonshire did riding seem to be of much service ;

and I suppose for the reason that I never rode hard
enough. I habitually brought back my horse without a

hair turned. Having always myself had an intolerance
of strenuous effort, and especially effort under coercion,

my sympathy is aroused by any creature making strenu

ous effort under coercion ; and the result has ever been

a dislike to seeing either a man or an animal over-

pressed, and still more to over-pressing one myself. It

is curious how special the sympathies are. Mine are
by no means as active in most directions as they are in

this.

            37 561

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

injury." Of course I did this third by instalments ; but

it was a feat for me in those days. Insomnia persisted ;

and I frequently adopted heroic measures. In the mid
dle of the night I got up and took a shower bath : the

reaction serving to induce sleep. The most effectual

method I discovered (not then, however, but afterwards)

was a kind of mild hydropathic pack.

   One morning there arrived at the door a groom on
horseback. He came from Standish, which was less

than ten miles off, bearing a letter again asking me to

visit my friends there. Though doubting my ability to

bear the social excitement that would be entailed, I as

sented, and bid good-bye to Brimsfield on the 22nd of

March.

   On the evening of my arrival at Standish, Mrs. Pot
ter made an announcement which would have tried the
nerves of many people in full health. She quietly told
me that she was about to put me into a haunted room--a
room in which one of her brothers had seen a ghost,
and from which he had hurriedly departed next
morning, almost without stopping to say good-bye, and

had never been induced to sleep in the house since. I

suppose she desired to put my disbelief to the test ; but
it was rather a sharp test for one labouring under a
nervous disorder, whose nights were always broken by
long waking intervals. Moreover, the failure to with
stand such a test would have proved but little ; for abso

lute as is the disbelief, early associations may so perturb
the imagination as to throw judgment off its balance.

Just as the eating of a dish of frogs or snails is to the
ordinary Englishman rendered impossible by conscious

562

iEt. 35-36]    EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

is absurd ; so, in spite of himself, one who with entire con
fidence rejects the belief in ghosts may, in places where

they are supposed to appear, be unable to expel the dread

that was instilled by nursemaids and strengthened by
stories of the supernatural afterwards read. However,
in my case, early associations failed to have any such

influence. I slept in the room for three weeks and saw

nothing: sometimes occupying my waking intervals in
speculating about the possible origin of the illusion.

  Here, as at Brimsfield, I followed the policy of occu

pying myself in ways which, while involving exercise,

absorbed the attention. I am reminded of some of

these ways by passages in a letter to my mother written
o" nMyMafarcthher2's9.letter found me busy making a swing for the

children. It has given them great delight. I am busy estab

lishing a vivarium for them. . . . These various occupations,

and the society, cause me quite to forget myself, which is a

great point. . . .

   Probably I shall go up to London in a week or ten days

hence. Dr. Ransom is right. Moderate excitement is bene

ficial; and I doubt not the London amusements will do me

good."

   A letter home dated 9 April, explaining my continued

presence at Standish as due to the kind pressure of my

friends, names the 12th as my last day there.

A sojourn in London followed. To maintain the con
tinuity of the narrative I give a few extracts from letters
                         One of April 13 says --
written while  there.                                 seen  and
               deal of  excitement yesterday, having
I' had a good

talked with Chapman, Huxley, Mrs. Huxley, Pigott, Lewes,

and having in the evening attended one of Hullah's orchestral

                        563

                AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1855-56

hours' sleep after it; which, considering it was my first day

in London, was quite as much as I expected. . . .
   As soon as I have done this I am going off to Mortlake (on

the Thames) to spend the day with Pigott, who has got rooms
in one of the lodges of Richmond Park, one side of which

touches Mortlake. Pigott tells me to regard his quarters

as my country house, where there is a bed always at my

service. On Tuesday I go down to spend the day with Lewes
at Richmond. On the whole I think I shall spend my time

pleasantly and beneficially."

Under date 21 April, I wrote to my uncle William--

" Cannot you give yourself a holiday and come up to town

while I am here. I am playing the lounger--going sight
seeing and amusing myself as best I may. Your company
would be an acquisition ; and as I have nothing else to do, I

could put myself at your disposal in the way of seeing all

that is to be seen. . . .

  I have improved considerably during the week that I have

been here. There is plenty to occupy the attention, and plenty
of stimulus to walking --both of them important points.

   By the way it occurs to me that there are shortly to be
rejoicings for the peace-- a review, a grand display of fire
works, &c. --and you might time your visit so as to come in for

them."
To my father on 28th April, I said --
" I am very unlucky at present in respect to society.  Almost

all the families at which I visit are from one cause or other

invisible. The Coopers have taken lodgings at Wimbledon
for three months. The Octavius Smiths are gone to live at

Brighton. Mrs. Swanwick is dead, and her daughters do

not receive at present. Chapman has ceased to give any

parties. . . .

There are but 200 copies of the Psychology sold, but the

                564

JEt. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

usually take place soon after its publication, this sale
of only 200 copies during the first nine months, implied

that a heavy loss was coming upon me. It showed, too,

how pecuniarily wise had been the publishers who

declined to undertake the risk, or any considerable part

of it. A letter home dated 2 May contains the para

graph :--
" I have just accepted an invitation to join a yachting

excursion of 10 days to Jersey, Guernsey, and Cherbourg.

Pigott's brother is the owner of the yacht, and Pigott and

some others are going with him. It will be just the thing

for me. We start this day fortnight."            Our

On May 17, I wrote: --
  " I am going down to Brighton for a few days.

yachting excursion is postponed for a fortnight; the vessel

not being ready. I want to try the effect of sea-bathing."

   The next letter to my father, dated 30 May, contains

a paragraph which, on looking through my letters, I re

read with special interest ; since it refers to what proved

to be the initiation of a long series of pleasures.
" We leave for Southampton at 10 to-morrow, and our yacht

starts the same evening. We are to be away ten days. On

my return I shall stay only a few days in London ; after
which I am to go and see the Brays at Coventry, and thence
I propose to come to Derby for a week.

   Mr. Octavius Smith, whose name you may have heard me

mention, and who has a house on the west coast of Scotland,

where he is going with his family in about a month, has
kindly invited me to join them there. This will suit me ad

mirably, and I have of course accepted it with gladness. . . .
   I was with the family last night seeing the fireworks. We

had to go into the Green Park on foot, and in the crush I was

robbed of my watch and Mr. Smith of his. The fireworks

were very splendid."

             56s

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                          [1855-56

   During my many years of London life this was the

only loss by theft which I ever suffered ; and I should
not have suffered this had I been led to expect that we

might go into a crowd.

   The suspicion, indicated at the beginning of this chap

ter, that my letters home habitually gave too favourable

an account of my health, is confirmed by finding in the

series of them just quoted from, no mention of the seri

ous relapse I experienced while in London. Mr. Fraser,

now Professor Fraser, of Edinburgh, was a candidate

for the chair then vacated by the death of Sir W. Hamil
ton, and wrote to me for a testimonial. I had read

nothing of his, and was unfitted to express any opinion ;

but I did not like to give this as a reason for declining.
1 thought I might be able to read as much as was
requisite, and I did so ; but the result was a break-down,

and an undoing of what good had been done during

some previous months. I have often described myself

as having an unusual ability to say " No ; " but on now
having recalled to me the events of past years, I find
that lack of the nerve required to say " No " has been

a cause of numerous disasters.

Our yachting excursion was made in fulfilment of the

arrangement indicated above, and my next letter home

is dated Marshall's  Royal Yacht  Hotel,  Guernsey,  5

June. It says--
" We arrived safely at Guernsey on Tuesday evening, after

being becalmed in the Channel for a day and a half. I slept

badly on board but had had two good nights here [at the

hotel]. I think I am benefiting, but I should benefit more
if . . . The first day the breakfast did not take place till after
2 o'clock. I, however, had managed to get something at 1oj.

                     566

&*, 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

   We dine to-day with Victor Hugo, to whom Pigott brought
letters of introduction [from Louis Blanc] ; and to-morrow
we leave for Jersey, where we shall stay a day before going
on to Cherbourg."

   There was nothing particularly impressive in Victor
Hugo's appearance or manner. My inability to follow
French conversation with any facility, prevented me

from appreciating what he said during dinner, or what

he said afterwards, when we were occupied in playing

some kind of game in his garden. Two things only I

remember. He coupled the names of Bacon and Comte ;

and when he came down to see the yacht, the cabin,
quite ordinarily fitted up, drew from him the words--

rive d'un poUe: a phrase characteristic of his style.
Madame Hugo was a much more striking person; an

swering completely to one's idea of an old Roman

dame. The two sons, also, were fine young fellows.

The elder, whose name I did not hear, favoured the

mother; while the younger, Francois Victor, was more
of his father's type. He was then busy with his transla

tion of Shakespeare.
   The rest of our cruise, carried out according to pro

gramme, brought no events of interest. It was prosper

ous : gentle breezes and sunny seas attending us

throughout. The result was that we reached Ports

mouth at the appointed time, and I was back in Lon

don on the nth.

   On the 16th I went home for a week; and then, leav

ing Derby for Coventry, spent a few days with the Brays
at Rosehill. These visits were made on my way north.

The friends with whom I was to spend part of the au
tumn in Argyllshire had not yet left town ; but as I had

            567

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

vance, and there spend the time in rambling about and

fishing until I received an intimation that they were ex

pecting me.

   I believe I had intended to go direct to Oban ; but a

fellow-traveller on the Glasgow and South Western line,

seeing my fishing gear, and inquiring my intentions,

recommended to me as a fishing place, Loch Doon, the

head water of the River Doon, famed in song. Forth

with acting on his advice, I left the railway at New Cum

nock, and made my way across country to Dalmelling-

ton. From there, in pursuance of information, I made

my way to a farm-house on the shores of the Loch,

where I obtained accommodation. The house was
called Beoch ; and thence I wrote home on the 10th July

in the usual sanguine strain.

  " I have been here now nearly a week, and find this life
suits me very well ; better indeed than any I have yet tried.
I am sleeping now fully seven hours every night, besides a

short nap in the day ; and the sleep is better than it was.

So you see I am on the way for getting right. I walk from

ten to twelve miles a day --some of it very rough walking

and equal to more in distance -- and I find now that the more
I walk the better I sleep. The fishing, too, suits me well,

and passes the time pleasantly.

  I am in a farm-house among mountains and moors with
scarcely a tree or anything else upon them. I should think
it dreary enough if I had to stay here long. At the end of
the week I leave for Oban."

   My constitutional tendency to call in question current

opinions, was manifested when fishing, as on other occa

sions. While in Wales the year before, occupied in

writing on Psychology and occasionally casting a fly

568

^t. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

how low is the nervous organization of fishes, it is un

likely that they should be able to discriminate so nicely

as the current ideas respecting artificial flies imply-

unlikely, too, that they should have such erratic fancies
as to be taken by combinations of differently coloured

feathers, like no living creature ever seen. I acted upon

my scepticism, and ignored the local traditions. Hear
ing me vent my heresies, the farmer, tenant of Beoch,

challenged me to a competition. It was scarcely a fair

one ; for my flies, made by myself without practice, were
of course ill-made, and the bungling make of them in
troduced an irrelevant factor into the competition.

Notwithstanding this, however, fishing from the same

boat we came back ties ; showing that the local flies had

no advantage. I may add here that in subsequent years
I systematically tested this current belief in local flies ;

and on various lochs and four different rivers found it

baseless. This experience furnished me with a good

illustration of the uncritical habits of thought character
istic not of the common people only but of those who
have received University educations. For in every case

I have found highly cultivated men--professors and
others such -- accepting without hesitation the dogmas

of keepers and gillies concerning the flies of the river.
Always their assigned reason is that these dogmas ex
press the results of experience. But inquiry would show
that those who utter them have never established them
by comparisons of numerical results. They simply re

peat, and act upon, what they have been told by their
predecessors; never dreaming of methodically testing
their predecessor's statements by trying whether, all
other things being equal, other colours and mixtures of

            569

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

from pursuing what, in inductive logic, is called the

method of agreement, and not checking its results by
the method of difference.

   Another incident which occurred during my stay at

Beoch, was impressed on my memory by certain impli

cations to which it awakened my attention. While out

fishing one breezy morning, I got my line into a tangle,
which I could not unravel; and at length, losing all
patience, I vented an oath. The man in the boat with
me, who, as I afterwards learned, was precentor at some
neighbouring village kirk or chapel, reproved me : per

haps thinking himself called upon to do so by his semi-

ecclesiastical function. I suppose it was the oddity of

this incident which drew my attention to the fact that,

being then thirty-six years of age, I had never before

been betrayed into intemperate speech of such kind:

thus making me more fully aware than before of the

irritability produced by my nervous disorder.

   And here let me pause to make some general remarks
suggested by this incident -- remarks intended to convey

a warning to those who are in the habit of greatly tax

ing their brains. That I may the better do this, let me

ignore for a moment the order of events.

  I will begin by extracts from letters ; the first of

which, written to a friend thirty years later, during the

worst phase of my nervous disorder, refers to the fre

quent relapses which I was undergoing.
  " I want a keeper, to be always taking care that I do not

overstep the limits on one side or the other ; for a consequence

of my present condition is that I lack judgment and presence
of mind, and commit some imprudence or other before I am

aware of it."

                                                  570

*t. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST.

The second extract is from the reply made by my friend,
himself suffering under a long-established nervous dis
order, who had recently passed through a severe crisis.

   " Your note contains sentences of intense interest to me;
for the lack of judgment and of presence of mind which you
there glance at, was one of the features of my malady, when
at its worst, causing me to commit imprudence, as you say
before I was aware of doing so."

These two testimonies, so curiously coincident, illus
trate the truth that under a lowered condition of the

nervous system, failure is first manifest in the highest
intellectual co-ordinations and in the highest emotional
co-ordinations. Speaking generally, each step in men
tal evolution results in a faculty by which the simpler
pre-existing faculties have their respective actions so
combined that each aids in regulating or controlling the
others, and the actions of all are harmonized. Each
higher judgment differs from lower judgments in that
it takes account of more numerous factors, or more cor
rectly estimates their degrees of relative importance ;

and is thus a more complex mental act. And similarly,
among the higher feelings, all relatively complex, the
highest are those which stand related to lower ones as
moderators : their moderating function being effected
by combining within themselves representations of these
lower feelings, no one of which is allowed to occupy
more than its due share of consciousness, and there
fore is not allowed unduly to sway the conduct. Man
ifestly, by their very natures as thus understood, these
highest intellectual and emotional powers, by which

well-balanced judgments are reached and well-balanced
feelings maintained, require more than all others, a full

            571

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

 ously supply all the numerous structures called into
 action. Consequently, they, before all others, fail when
 the tide of nervous energy ebbs. Defect of co-ordina
 tion is shown intellectually in erroneous judgments con
 cerning matters where sundry circumstances have to be
 taken into account, and emotionally in the ill-controlled

 feelings which lead to impulsive expressions and deeds.
 The primitive and deeply-rooted self-regarding faculties,

 which tend ever to initiate antagonisms, are scarcely
 weakened during states of prostration ; while the other-

 regarding faculties, relatively modern and superficial,
 and soon paralyzed by innutrition, fail to check them.
 And then beyond the direct evils which the nervous sub
 ject brings on himself by such failures, there are the in
 direct evils that result from misinterpretation of his
 character. The irritabilities and perversities of those
 who are visibly ill, are duly allowed for: they are under
 stood as temporary consequences of the temporary
 state. But those who, not being visibly deranged in
 health, suffer from these chronic nervous disorders,

 have no allowances made for them. I am the more im

 pressed by this fact on remembering the case of my

 father, and the constructions which I myself put upon

 his ideas and actions. His not infrequent aberrations
 of judgment, and his often-displayed peculiarities of

 temper, I regarded as traits of his original nature. But

 of late years it has become manifest to me that they
 were the results of that debility of brain which he

 brought on himself during my childhood, and that I

\never knew his true character.

   The last fortnight of July was spent at Oban ; and,

waiting as I was for promised pleasures, the time passed

                                                  572

^t. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

heavily. There were explorings of Dunolly and Dun-
staffnage castles ; a walk to Taynuilt, and a return next
day. There was a little trout fishing in a loch among
the hills a few miles off ; and there was a little sea fishing

in Loch Linnhe, outside the island of Kerrera. But I

was glad when, at the close of the month, the looked-

for letter arrived, and I departed for Achranich.

   Anyone leaving Oban by steamer for the West, en
ters, after crossing Loch Linnhe, the Sound of Mull,
flanked on the left by the Mull mountains and on the
right by the precipitous shores of the mainland. These

last are the Ardtornish cliffs. Over them in rainy

weather fall several small streams, in such wise that,

during violent south-westerly gales, they are blown back
and dispersed in great clouds of spray: producing, at a

distance, the impression that fires at the edge of the
cliff are sending forth volumes of smoke.

   Some two miles or more down the Sound, on the

right hand, juts out a promontory which bears on its
brow the ruins of Ardtornish Castle, the scene of the
Lord of the Isles; in which poem, however, this castle is
greatly idealized, for it could never have been of con

siderable size. A mile further along the same shore is

the narrow opening of a small sea loch : on one side of

it a ferry-house, and on the other a village bearing the
same name as the loch -- Loch Aline. Visible only for a
minute as the steamer passes its mouth, Loch Aline is
seen to have on its two sides cliffs clothed with trees up
to their summits. Closing the loch, about two and a
half miles from its mouth, rise partially wooded hills,
and beyond these, mountains. In 1856 no sign of hu
man habitation was visible on its shores. At the far

            573

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

peeping through the trees, there then existed only the

foundations of one. The house which gave the name

to the place, concealed in the mouth of a valley at the
head of the loch, was a farm-house which Mr. Octavius

Smith had enlarged; and which, with new offices in

tended to be permanent, gave accommodation to the

family and guests while the new house was being

built.

   Here I joined a domestic circle already increased by

two lady-friends -- a circle which was rendered none the
less charming by the comparative unconventionality re
sulting from temporary arrangements. Already in

a preceding chapter I have briefly characterized my

host, and will here add only that to his larger kindnesses
were often added smaller ones; as, for instance, when

from the dog-kennel a hundred yards from the house

there came one night the baying of pointers and setters,

which he knew would keep me awake, he got up and
went out to try and silence them. Of my hostess, how

ever, I have as yet said nothing; and she must not be
passed over. I should think that in her early days she

answered in large measure to one of Shakspeare's

portraits--" pretty and witty, wild and yet, too, gentle ":

wildness being the only trait of which there was no

trace. In the days of which I speak, griefs from domes

tic afflictions --losses and illnesses of children -- had left

obscuring marks ; but there survived the never-failing

amiability, and her sympathies with those around fre

quently made her contribute a little humour to conversa

tion. The only fault I can recall was that of undue
self-sacrifice -- a fault on which I sometimes commented ;

for my compliments, rarely uttered in any form, were

574

/Et 35-36]       EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

the sons and daughters furnished no evidence against

the general principle of heredity, I have described a
group in which life could not but pass delightfully. A

letter written home on the 16th August says--

  I" I am enjoying myself much here --so much so that

think scarcely at all about myself or my ailments. The days
slip by very quickly --so much so that there generally seems

no time for anything. Fishing, and rambling, and boating,

and bathing, form the staple occupations; varied, occasion

ally, with making artificial flies and mending fishing rods.

My friends are delightful people --extremely kind and con

siderate, cultivated and amusing. The first few days of my

stay were rather too exciting, but I soon became accustomed

to and now do not feel at all. My sleep much as
it,
                     it
                            is

                                     it

                                   I

                                                                             is

                                                              I it
was; but though   still broken am decidedly progressing

in ability to read, and talk, and write, without ill effects.

do not remember to have had any sensations in the head for

a week or more."

During my stay there were picnics on the Table of

Lome        flat-topped mountain visible from Oban) and
a
             (a

                I
                                                              ;
at the Ullin waterfalls; ascents of Ben Yahten and

Shean, whence there are fine views of Rum and Skye
                                                                      a
                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                   ;;
drives to the village, to Ardtornish, to Glen Dhu, &c.

boating excursion round to Loch Linnhe, with pic

nic on its rocky wood-clothed shore; sketching trip

to Killoonden Castle and many days on the banks of

the river Aline, or Aline water, and on Loch Arienas,

during which justified my heresy by catching great                    9

numbers of sea trout. In these ways six weeks rapidly                        :
went by. A letter to my father dated September con
tains the paragraphs:--
" My kind friends here have induced me to stay longer than

thought of doing when last wrote to you they ask me to
I

                             is

                               I
stay as long as agreeable to myself."

                                                                 575

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

 Intimating that I should probably not remain more

 than another week, the letter continues: --
 " It will now be too late to go to Treport, as the season there

  closes at the end of the month, and practically ends before

 that time. I am therefore thinking of going to Brighton

 instead. Brighton suited me very well during the week I

 spent there in the spring; and I think that its bracing air,

 after this mild and rather enervating air, will be very

  beneficial.

    I am increasing in power of reading, but I still do not sleep
 well ; though, I think, better on the average than heretofore.
 I am getting very stupid, which I suppose I must take as a

 good sign."

     Every one now and then has presentiments. They

 sometimes force themselves on one in spite of one's con-

I sciousness of their absurdity. I have had many ; but
 never yet found one verified. A day or two before leav

 ing Achranich the daughter of the house, an accom

 plished musician, had been singing a song of Tenny
 son's, then recently set to music, " The Brook," of which

 the burden is--

                   " No more by thee my steps shall be,
                      For ever and for ever."

 While pacing along the banks of the Aline, somewhat

 saddened by the prospect of farewell to pleasant scenes,

I applied these lines to myself: believing I should

 not see the place again. Never was presentiment more

 conspicuously falsified. My visits there during many sub
 sequent years, numbered more than twelve if less than

 twenty; and varying in duration as they did from a
 month to six weeks and even two months, they would,

 if added together, make between one and two years --

a portion of my life which I would gladly live over again

 just as it was.

576

-St. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

My departure from Achranich was followed by an

other interval of restless wandering. The next letter

home was dated Edinburgh, 15 September, and inti

mated that I was about to take Derby on my way to
Brighton. Subsequent dates imply that I spent a fort

night at home; for the next letter is dated Brighton,
7 October. This letter says--

" Brighton is not suiting me so well as I thought. It is

becoming mild and damp and injures my sleeping. Mrs.

Potter says that though it is bracing in the spring it is relax

ing in the autumn. [This depends on the position-- I have
never found the East Cliff relaxing.] I have therefore

resolved to change, and think of going to Paris."

In pursuance of this intention I left in a few days, and

took London on my way. Two incidents resulting from

this detour claim mention. One is that during the few

days it occupied I went down to spend an afternoon and

evening with the Leweses at Park Shot, Richmond ; and

when, during the evening, I was once more suggesting

to Miss Evans that she should write fiction, was told by
her that she had commenced, and had then in hand " The
                                        "
Sad  Story   of the  Rev. Amos  Barton      :  this  confession

being made under promise on my part of absolute se

crecy. The other is that while in London I called on
Chapman, and that he, learning where I was about to

go, gave me a commission to execute. He explained

that when he published Miss Martineau's abridged

translation of the Philosophie Positive, it was agreed

that a certain share of the profits, if any accrued, should

be paid over to Comte. Two years had now elapsed,

and the sales had been sufficient to make this agreement

operative: something was due to him. The sum was

under twenty pounds I think ; and this I willingly under
          « 577

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

took to pay over to the philosopher--willingly, of

course, for the introduction was a good one, and nat

urally I was curious to see him.

   In my first letter home from Paris, written to my
mother on October 20, and giving the address 17 Rue
de la Croix, Passy, there is a not very flattering descrip

tion of him. Certainly his appearance was not in the

least impressive, either in figure or face. One could say

of his face only that, unattractive though it was, it was

strongly marked ; and in this way distinguished from the
multitudes of meaningless faces one daily sees. Of our

conversation I remember only that, hearing of my ner

vous disorder, he advised me to marry ; saying that the

sympathetic companionship of a wife would have a cura
tive influence. This, by the way, was a point of agree

ment between him and one who differed from him in
most things-- Professor Huxley ; who in after years sug

gested that I should try what he facetiously termed

gynoeopathy : admitting, however, that the remedy had

the serious inconvenience that it could not be left off

if it proved unsuitable.

   As before, the glitter of Paris soon palled upon me :

and, as before, I soon felt the depressing effect of re

moteness from friends, made greater by the restless

state of mind due, I suppose, to my nervous disorder.

These causes soon raised my discontent to moving

point. Hence the following passages in a letter to my

father.

" Perhaps you will think me whimsical, but I am already
getting tired of Paris and am thinking of returning. I find
perpetual sight-seeing very fatiguing; and further, I am in
great want of society. All the people I know are occupied

578

-Et. 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

beyond making calls. The result is that I have difficulty in

passing the time.

   A chief reason, however, for my resolution to return is
that I have got an idea of a smoke-consuming fire-place
which I am anxious to put to the test."

  In pursuance of the intention named, I left Paris

about a week later, and after staying a week in London

returned home. There I shortly found that, under con

ditions something like those intended, smoke would not

behave as I expected it to do : it " ended in smoke " in

stead of carbonic acid. The remainder of November

and nearly the whole of December were passed at

Derby.

  I suppose this interval at Derby was partly occupied
in pondering the question --What must be done?
Nearly a year and a half had now passed since I did any
work, and I was still far from recovery. Though, as
the above given series of extracts from letters show, I
was continually expecting to be very soon well, I was

continually disappointed. The progress is from time

to time reported, but there is evidently not an adequate

reporting of the regress. And here let me briefly de

scribe my condition at that time and afterwards.

  Appearances gave the impression that I was in fair

health. Appetite and digestion were both good ; and

my bodily strength, seemingly not less than it had been,

as tested by walking, was equal to that of most men

who lead town lives. This continued to be my state for

many years.

   Both then and afterwards, my sleeping remained quite

abnormal. A night of sound sleep was, and has ever

             579

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1855-56

such as would commonly be called bad ones. Save
when leading a rural life with nothing but out-door

sports to occupy attention, I probably averaged be

tween four and five hours of unconsciousness. But it

was never continuous. The four or five hours were

made up of bits ; and if one of the bits was two hours

long, it was something unusual. Ordinarily my night
had from a dozen to a score wakings. Moreover at that

time and for five and twenty years after, the sensation of

drowsiness was never experienced. I went to sleep un

awares; and when I awoke was instantly broad awake.
   Along with the state of brain thus implied, there went

that inability to work without presently bringing on ab
normal sensations, with which my disorder set in.

Neither then, nor at any subsequent time, was there

either disinclination or incapacity for thinking or
writing. It was simply that continuous application pro

duced this feeling in the head which gave warning that
something was going wrong. During these eighteen

months above described, this symptom soon came on ;

and though in after years I could, when at my best, do
three hours' work without mischief, I never got beyond
this. A disastrous relapse soon followed if I tried to do

more.

   At that time and always afterwards, reading had the

same effect as working ; no matter what the nature of the

reading. During periods of relapse a column of a news

paper would suffice to put my head wrong ; and when at

my best I could not, after my morning's work, read
even a novel for long without suffering. When I

treated myself to one, which happened perhaps once in

a year or two, I had to get through it by a dozen instal

580

^t- 35-36]  EIGHTEEN MONTHS LOST

book or periodical for half or three-quarters of an hour
in the afternoon. Reading in the evening for that length

of that time destroyed part of the rest I ordinarily got.

The implied cutting off from nearly all literature save

that which I could utilize, and from a large part of this,

was one of the heaviest of my deprivations.

   As indicated in sundry of the above extracts, social

excitement habitually proved injurious. Though, after

wards, I was able to bear a moderate amount of it

without mischief, yet much animated talk, especially if
it verged into discussion, brought on me the penalty of
an unusually bad night. Going to a theatre, though

sometimes not detrimental, and occasionally even bene
ficial, frequently did me harm. Music was perhaps the

only thing which I could enjoy in full measure with im

punity. But one could not always be going to concerts;
and good domestic music was rarely to be had. Of
course these various incapacities made it difficult to
spend leisure time with any satisfaction. Much of it had

to be passed in a state of mere passivity; and the having
to live through many vacant hours was injurious in
various ways.

   But to return from this partially digressive descrip
tion to the immediate question which pressed upon me

--What must be done. Longer entire idleness did not

promise much benefit. Moreover, two years and a half

had elapsed since my pen had brought me any money.
Clearly it was needful to try and do something; and

with this conviction I left for London the day after

Christmas Day.

            581

                    CHAPTER XXIX.

                  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS.

                      1856--7. JEt. 36--37.

   During my consultation with him, Dr. Ransom

advised me never in future to live alone. He thought,
and no doubt rightly thought, that my solitary days in
lodgings had been largely instrumental in bringing on
the physiological disaster which had already cost me so
much of life and of work, and was thereafter to cost me
far more. Probably he inferred that in the absence of
distractions my brain had been active during times which
were nominally times of rest ; and he doubtless recog
nized the truth that besides this positive mischief, there
had been the negative mischief which lack of society
and its enlivenments entails.

  I willingly yielded to his suggestion; and, on arriving

in town at the close of December, 1856, took steps to
find a family with which to reside. My requirements were
fairly well met at No. 7, Marlborough Gardens, St. John's
Wood, then occupied by a solicitor, whose business, as

I gathered, had been ruined by his negligence, and

whose wife was endeavouring to eke out their dimin
ished means by taking an inmate. Ordinarily the pres
ence of children is regarded by one who wishes accom
modation of this kind as an objection; but it was not so

                                                  582

&*. 36-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

of things, I should have had a growing-up family of my
own, there was, I suppose, some natural desire to be
surrounded by boys and girls--or rather, I should say,

by girls. Perhaps actual paternity would have changed

my feelings in the matter; but otherwise I fear the

daughters would have come in for undue shares of affec
tion. Here, two little girls of five and seven were just

fitted to serve as vicarious objects of the philoprogeni
tive instinct; and, with the rest of the circle, supplied

that liveliness of which I was in search in a greater

degree than a party of adults would have done.

  I may remark in passing that I take some little time

to establish friendly relations with children; because,

in the treatment of them, I ever feel inclined to respect

their individualities. Very commonly strangers begin

to caress them forthwith without considering whether
they may or may not like to have liberties taken. Chil

dren often rebel internally, if not externally, against this
disregard of their dignity; and, where they are allowed
full freedom, and themselves left to make the advances,

they sometimes show preferences for those who so treat

them.

   The family afforded facilities for observations and ex

periments which afterwards proved useful when treating
of education. Surprise has not unfrequently been ex

pressed to me that, being a bachelor, I should have in

terested myself in questions concerning the manage
ment of children, and should have written on them with

some success. But in common with most bachelors, I

had various opportunities of watching children, and

watching the conduct adopted towards them, and watch
ing also the effects. The remark that bystanders often

            583

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

many other things. Though it is true that actual mem

bers of the domestic circle must have experiences the
outsider cannot have, yet the outsider's views have their

value, and are indeed almost indispensable. Being free

from the emotions of parenthood, and in many cases

thereby incapacitated for judging, he is in other cases
enabled to judge more fairly.

   Among the advantages of the house was that it stood
within five minutes' walk of Huxley's house; and one
of the remembrances connected with my return to town,

is that I was in time to join a New Year's Day dinner
Huxley gave. I name the fact, because it was the first

of a long series of such dinners at which I had the pleas
ure of being a guest. For more than twenty years I

failed to be present but once only: being on that oc
casion detained at Derby. In later years ill-health some
times, and at other times absence abroad, broke the

custom.

   Of course the first thing to be done in the way of work,

was to fulfil the engagement made in the autumn of 1854,
to write for the Westminster the article on "Progress:

its Law and Cause." Suspended for more than two

years, this undertaking had, I suppose, been the sub
ject of thought in the interval; and, I suppose, also

the subject of some anxiety. Regarding the generaliza

tion I wished to set forth as important, I must have been

occasionally irritated by my prolonged inability. Still,

I was it seems content to let the months slip by without
making any effort; and so far as I can remember was

without any great feeling of restlessness. Dr. Ransom,

indeed, urged me not to worry myself about loss of time ;

584

jEt. 36-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

little with one who was constitutionally more ener

getic.

   January, February and two-thirds of March were oc
cupied in preparing the article. Writing home on Feb

ruary 4th, I remark --" On the average I get on with my

MS. at the rate of about a closely written page of post-
paper per day, which takes me from two to three hours;
and though it usually congests my head more or less

before I have got half through, I do not find I perma
nently suffer." I succeeded, but only just succeeded,
in completing the MS. in time; and I remember that

my face bore clear traces of the strain. As the essay

occupies but 41 pages, giving an average of some half-
page per day, it may be imagined what was still my state
after eighteen months' rest. However, no mischief was
done. Contrariwise, the effort proved beneficial.

   Of the article itself, which formed the initial instal

ment of the Synthetic Philosophy, I may remark that its

title shows the side from which the generalizations set

forth in it had been approached. The use of the word
" progress " implies that its originating thought con
cerned human affairs and human nature; for the ordi

nary connotations of the word refer almost exclusively to

man and his doings. The doctrine had been at the out

set anthropocentric. Such vague foreshadowings of it
as occurred in The Proper Sphere of Government and in

Social Statics, were obviously of this character. Though
in " The Development Hypothesis " there was shown

the presence of a conception not directly relevant to

human progress; yet in the subsequent essays " A The
ory of Population," "The Art of Education," "The
Genesis of Science," &c, the idea of progress shows it

             585

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

 being recognized, however, as not restricted to these.
And then in the Principles of Psychology, while mental
development is treated of as exhibited throughout the
animal kingdom at large; yet the obvious purpose of
the general survey made, is to find a key to the mental
development of man. Doubtless the implied belief that
 mental progress in man is part of a general mental

 progress, tended to subordinate the anthropocentric view.

Nevertheless, as I have said, this essay on " Progress: its

Law and Cause " betrayed by its title the course of its
genesis. Though it began by pointing out that the word
progress is commonly used in too narrow a sense ; yet

the fact that I continued to use the word shows that I

had not then recognized the need for a word which has
no teleological implications.

   On reconsidering the general ideas set forth in the

article, I am struck by the fact that there failed to appear

among them certain general ideas previously reached,
and which should, in their developed forms, have occu
pied important positions. Already in the essays on the

" Genesis of Science," and the "Art of Education," as

well as in the Principles of Psychology, increase of defi-

niteness had been recognized as a characteristic of ad
vancing development; and already, in each of these,
there had also been recognized as characterizing one or

other kind of development, a growing integration. Yet
in this essay on " Progress: its Law and Cause," there
is no recognition of these traits as holding of things in
general. The sole trait of progress alleged and illus
trated throughout all its stages, is the transition from

the homogeneous to the heterogeneous; and the sole
cause assigned is the multiplication of effects. Traits

586

^t. 36-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

transition in sundry particular classes of phenomena,
seem to have dropped out of sight. Only at subsequent
periods were they re-recognized and presented in their
places as characters of the universal transformation.

   Something should be said concerning the way in
which the genesis of organic forms is interpreted. In
the first or inductive part, multiplication of the varie
ties of them throughout geologic time, is one of the as
signed illustrations of the change from homogeneity
to heterogeneity. In the second or deductive part, this
change, in common with all the other changes instanced,

is interpreted as consequent on the multiplication of
effects. Every species is represented as continually
forced, alike by its normal multiplication and by occa
sional geologic or climatic alterations in its habitat, to
spread into other habitats -- not in one direction only,
but in many directions: the result being to produce
numerous divergences and re-divergences of structures,
and occasionally higher structures. But while in this
view there was nothing incongruous with views since
enunciated -- while the old conception that successively
higher organic beings form a series or chain was tacitly
repudiated, and there was tacitly implied the conception
of perpetual branching and re-branching of species; yet
the causation indicated was inadequate. At that time

I ascribed all modifications to direct adaptation to chang

ing conditions ; and was unconscious that in the absence
of that indirect adaptation effected by the natural se

lection of favourable variations, the explanation left the
larger part of the facts unaccounted for.

   The article drew some attention: not, of course, from
the reading world in general, but from a scattered few of

            587

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                   [1856-7

made; and that which was made was not particularly

helpful. The only remark I now recall was that the sec

ond half of the article, which had for its purpose to give
a rationale of the universal change described in the first

part, was not of much value: the implication being that
the induction might properly remain without any search
for a deductive interpretation of it. Happening to know,

as I did, that the criticism came from a University man
specially distinguished in formal logic, I was struck

with the strangeness of his implied belief that the em

pirical stage of a generalization may be contentedly ac

cepted as its final stage.

" Now we have got to the top and shall have a view

all round," is often the remark accompanying the last

few steps when ascending an eminence. And then, not

withstanding past experiences, there is a feeling of sur

prise on discovering further on a more elevated peak

previously hidden. Such incidents are recalled to me by

repeated similar mistakes  in mental ascents. With the
completion of the article  on " Progress: its Law and

Cause," I supposed that    no further height had to be

reached; but very shortly the lifting of the mist dis

closed near at hand a point considerably above that on

which I was resting. A survey all round made it mani

fest that there was another general cause for the change
from homogeneity to heterogeneity --a cause which, in

order of time, takes precedence of the multiplication of

effects. This further conclusion must have been

promptly reached; since the article enunciating it was

written in the interval between the beginning of April

and the latter part of June.

                              588

^t. 36-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

fore, a quarterly called the National Review. It had been

established by adherents of the Rev. James Martineau in
opposition to the Westminster Review, which had ceased

to be adequately representative of their views. The ed
itors of this new quarterly were Mr. Walter Bagehot and

Mr. R. H. Hutton. I offered, and Mr. Hutton accepted,

an article embodying, along with some less important

generalizations, the generalization just indicated.

  I proposed for it the title " Transcendental Physiol

ogy: " wishing to imply that it was concerned with those
physiological truths which, not taking note of divisions
among species, genera, orders, classes, or even king

doms, hold of all organisms --truths of which the famil

iar one that like produces like, may be taken as typical.
One section had for its purpose to show that with ad
vance in the forms of life there is an increasing differ
entiation of them from their environments. There was

also set forth the general truth that with the differentia
tions which become increasingly marked during the de

velopments of individual organisms, there simultane
ously go on integrations, which it was contended should
be recognized as part of the developmental process. But
the leading conception which the essay contained, was

the above-indicated further cause of progress -- the in
stability of the homogeneous. This was dwelt upon as
being, like the multiplication of effects, a principle hold

ing not among organic phenomena only, but among in
organic and super-organic phenomena. And with this

further step I erroneously supposed that the interpreta
tion of progress was complete. I say progress, but I

ought to say evolution; for now the word is introduced
and begins to be used in place of progress. The only

            589

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

analogy recognized in Social Statics, between individual
organisms and social organisms; and that, especially in
connexion with the process of integration exemplified in
both, urged that comparisons between the two sets of

phenomena should be made with a view to mutual eluci

dations.
   The article was issued in the October number of the

National Review under the title of " The Ultimate Laws

of Physiology," which I adopted in deference to editorial

wishes: restoring the original title, however, when the
essay was republished along with others in a permanent

form.

   My life at this time was somewhat monotonous. A

letter to my mother of March 31st, however, shows that

a few distractions occurred.

   " I called on John Mill a short time ago. We had a long

chat. He was very friendly and asked me to call again.

[This was the first time I saw Mill. The call was prompted

by the receipt, while in Scotland during the previous autumn,

of a copy of the new edition of his Logic, in which he had

replied to my criticism upon him.]

   " I dined lately at Mr. Charles Buxton's and met there
Greg, Huxley, and Sir Henry Holland. I see Mr. Buxton
is since elected M.P. for Newport. I am glad of it. He is a

genuine and sensible man.
   " The Smiths have taken a beautiful house at Richmond

for the spring. I spent a Sunday with them a few weeks

ago ; and am to go down again on Saturday next to stay over

Sunday. They are delightful friends.

   " At the suggestion of Lewes I have been distributing about

thirty copies of the ' Princ. of Psy.' among the leading men

of science and philosophy."

   Doubtless Lewes had made this suggestion on learn

590

-Et. 36-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

ogy, and on thinking that some use might be made of it
by distribution if not otherwise.

  How did I pass my leisure hours? In those days I
was not a member of a club; and now that I have been
for many years habituated to one, I am at a loss to un
derstand what I did in the latter part of the day. Then,

as always after my nervous breakdown, reading, even

of the lightest kind, told upon my brain just as much

as working. So far as I can remember, a walk into town,

half-an-hour at a public news-room, and a walk back
served to fill part of the afternoon; and the rest was

spent in such miscellaneous ways of killing time as might

offer themselves.

    Mention of these returns from town in the afternoon,

reminds me that I sometimes called at the Museum in

Jermyn Street at the hour when Huxley usually left,

that we might walk back together. Involved as the hy
pothesis of organic evolution was in most of my think

ing, it not unfrequently cropped up in our talk, and led to

animated discussions in which, having a knowledge of

the facts immensely greater than mine, he habitually de

molished now this and now that argument which I used.
But though continually knocked down, I continually got

up again. The principle which he acted upon was that

of keeping judgment in suspense in the absence of ade

quate evidence. But acknowledging, though I did, the
propriety of his course, I found myself in this case unable

to adopt it. There were, as it seemed to me, but two im
aginable possibilities -- special creation and progressive

development; and since the doctrine of special creation,

unsupported by evidence, was also intrinsically incredi
ble, because incongruous with all we know of the order

             591

                     AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                 [1836-7

I it,me as the only alternative. Hence, fallacious as provedI I itII
     this or the other special reason assigned in support of
               a                            a         it
         my belief in perpetually revived.         a
        Returning from this digression to the account of mya
     daily routine, have to add that the evening usually
     brought whist, into which was initiated by my hosts.
     Up to that time had never played any game of cards.
     Neither then nor after did become tolerable player.
       have not memory of the required kind. To me
     has ever been marvel that after hand people should

     be able to remember all that has been done.

   My stay in town came to an end somewhat premait aa
turely. Disappointed in their hopes of adequately adda
ing to failing income, my hosts were obliged to giveIaa
up the house. The result was that had to remove
before midsummer. After short time at home startedit I
                                                  I
for fishing expedition to the north.
    Fishing had proved so good sedative, by unitingII

moderate exercise with pleasurable occupation of mind,a

that became then and afterwards deliberately chosen
pursuit; and one to which, indeed, would have been
well had devoted myself more frequently and for longer
intervals than did. The western lowlands held out
temptations. There was the riven Ken, said to contain
salmon; and there were lochs, to the owner of some of
which had an introduction. Rail to Dumfries, coach to
Castle Douglas (for there was then no railway) and on
foot to Dalry brought me to the ground. The excursion
was planned as pedestrian one, with no impedimenta
but rod and fishing basket, and such small selection of
needful things as the fishing basket would contain.
                                                      I

                          592

JEt. 36-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

gage; and it was always with some feeling of elation

that I cut myself free from everything but what I could

carry about me. Like children, portmanteaus and

trunks are hostages to fortune. For many years I

tended, not only when moving but when stationary, to

minimize my belongings as much as possible: my love

of freedom showing itself, among other ways, in aver

sion to that passive tyranny which material possessions

exercise over one. I wonder how I should have tolerated

travelling with a wife's half-dozen boxes to look after!

   " Tis distance lends " sport to the river, as well as

" enchantment to the view." Wherever the rumour of

good angling takes one, the habitual experience is that,

not just there but a little further away, is the great suc
cess to be had. So it proved with the Ken at Dalry;

and after a few days I gave up hope from it. An expe

dition in search of something better to a loch in the

neighbourhood, was followed by an experience charac

teristic of the locality. On returning to Dalry after a

night's absence, I found the place alive with people

brought together by what proved to be an annual hiring

fair. On entering the inn I had been staying at, I found

all the rooms below crowded with men smoking and

drinking ; and after looking in vain for some quiet place,
decided to take refuge in my bedroom. To my dismay,

on going upstairs, I found my bedroom also full of men
smoking and drinking. Had I been prone to study

human nature in the concrete as well as in the abstract,

I might have utilized the occasion. But a retreat and a

protest below stairs came much more naturally to me:

the result being eventually advantageous, for they found

me comfortable accommodation in an adjacent house.

   A week or so was passed at Andarroch, a farmhouse

                   89 593

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

a few miles to the north of Dalry, and a short distance
from the banks of the river. Spending leisure time, now
in rambling over the moors, now in trying with one or
other lure to tempt some salmon which were lying below
the falls of the Ken, I spent the mornings in writing
part of the essay on the " Origin and Function of Music."

I forgot to say that before leaving town, an engagement

for this essay had been made with the editor of Fraser's
Magazine. As usual, the leading thought was evolu
tionary. The inquiry which had arisen in my mind was
-- How has music naturally originated? An obvious
corollary from the doctrine set forth in the Principles of
Psychology, was that the musical faculty, in common with

all faculties, must have arisen by degrees through com

plications of pre-existing elements in human nature.
Clearly music excites one or other emotion, and does
this because it expresses one or other emotion. How
comes it to express one or other emotion? Feeling of
every kind, sensational or emotional, tends to discharge
itself in muscular contractions. Among muscular con
tractions produced by the discharge are those which
strain the vocal organs. Emotion consequently ex
presses itself not only in visible movements, but in
sounds : the one, like the other, being violent in propor
tion as the emotion is strong. Not in loudness only,
but in pitch and in timbre do the sounds emitted vary
with the kind and intensity of the emotion; and not in
these respects only, but also in the range of tones which
the emotion produces, as also in the rapidity with which
the tones succeed one another. Here, then, were certain

physio-psychological phenomena which evidently in
sundry ways linked the natural expression of emotion

594

*t. 36-37J  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

familiar fact that the cadences used in ordinary speech

are expressive of feeling, and vary as feelings vary.

Hence came the question -- Is not music a development
of this natural language of the emotions? The article

aimed to show in detail that it is.

   How strong becomes the craving for companionship

after a period of solitude! Before leaving Derby I had

persuaded my artist-friend Deacon to join me in Scot

land; and after a fortnight, during which I held speech
with none save strangers (and I am a long time in break
ing the ice with strangers), I got very impatient for his
arrival -- so impatient, that I walked some ten miles to

the railway-station at Minnihive to meet him at the ap
pointed time. He disappointed me, however; and after

having at Minnihive an experience like that above de

scribed, consequent upon a hiring fair, I had next day

to walk back disconsolately alone. When a few days

after my friend joined me, we made our way across coun
try to Beoch on Loch Doon -- my abode for a week the

year before. There, now in rambling, now in fishing,

now in writing, a pleasant fortnight was passed: talk

ing to the old farmer and his wife being occasionally

among the distractions. For me, and I suspect for most

southrons, a small amount of conversation with those

who talk broad Scotch suffices; since the degree of at

tention required to follow speech much divergent from

one's own in its words and pronunciation, soon be
comes fatiguing. How entirely relative to the desires

and to the mental state is the idea of beauty, was, I re

member, interestingly shown on some of these occasions.

Enlarging, as Beoch did (he was sometimes called by the
name of the place), on the beauty of England, into which

            595

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

quiry, the beauty of its rich pastures and fine fields of
corn; and to him the barrenness of the adjacent hills
and moors was equivalent to ugliness. So little interest

was felt in the picturesque, that to my surprise I found

the wife, although she had lived there twenty years, had
never been to the top of an adjacent hill some 1,000 feet

high, which I climbed within a few days of our arrival.
If there exists among mountain-bred peoples that strong

love of home which is alleged of the Swiss (though con
sidering how much they have had to expatriate them

selves, it may simply be that the occasions for displaying
home-sickness have been more frequent among them),

it is probably less because they love the beauties of their
land than because its multitudinous striking features
afford holds for early associations which cannot arise in

a flat country, where every locality is like every other.

   The improvement in health achieved during the sea
son in London, was increased in Scotland by the fresh

air, exercise, fishing, and-- I was going to say--quiet.
But I am arrested by the remembrance that to nervous

subjects country places often prove the reverse of quiet.

The early chirping of sparrows and, still worse, the

clucking and crowing of fowls, are dreadful inflictions to

them. I have often entertained sanguinary feelings to
wards a vociferous cock, which, after I had passed the

first part of the night in tossing from side to side, began

crowing just as I was beginning to get a little sleep, and

kept me awake during the ensuing hours. At Beoch a
droll incident was associated with this experience. My

bedroom faced the farm-yard, and to get sufficient air in

a small room I had to keep the window partially open.

The result was that the early crowing of the cock was

596

.*t. 3<5-37]  SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

people shut up the cock in a barn on the oposite side
of the yard. But as the bottom of the barn-door was
worn away and the pavement hollow, the space sufficed
both for the light of the dawn to advertize the cock that
it was time to begin crowing, and to allow the sound to
be heard almost as clearly as before. The device they
then hit upon, which proved quite effectual, was to place
him under an inverted bucket, and there keep him until

I was getting up. It was amusing to observe how, when

released, he endeavoured to make up for lost time by
crowing with immense energy and rapidity.

   The appetite for fishing having been pretty well satis
fied, my article finished, and Deacon's vacation nearly
ended, we turned our faces southward and travelled to

gether as far as Penrith. Not having seen anything of

the English lakes, I there left him and made a detour:

walking to Ulswater and along its banks to Patterdale;
next afternoon ascending the Kirkstone Pass, and get

ting so drenched that I had to stop at the little inn at the

top, which boasts itself as the highest inhabitated house
in England; descending thence to Windermere and by
railway to Derby.

  I have omitted to name an engagement which was
made before I left London in the early summer. A

letter to my father, written apparently in May, contains
the following passage: --

  " I have agreed to write another article for the Westmin
ster in October on the meddling system. I think of entitling

it-- "Representative Government: what is it good for?" the

aim being to show that it is specially fit for administering

justice and specially unfit for anything else."

              597

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

land, and completed it during a visit I paid to my friends

at Standish in September.

   I may remark of it that, in addition to the political

aspect indicated in the above extract, it has aspects of a
more general kind. Beyond a further development of
the doctrine of limitation of duties, and a further bring
ing to bear of biological truths on Sociology, there was
involved in it the general theory of evolution in so far
as it implies that specialization of structures in adapta
tion to special functions, is an advance in organization.
Unfortunately the resulting conceptions were then, as
they are now, " caviare to the general." That inferences
drawn from the laws of organization have a practical
bearing on politics, seemed thirty years ago, as it seems
at present, an absurd fancy. There still continues the

tacitly-implied belief, alike among statesmen and peo
ple, that there are no laws of organization. The concep
tion of natural law, which does not exist in the savage,

is as yet but rudimentary in the civilized.
   Leaving Standish towards the close of September,

and spending on my way a few days in town, where
nothing nothing tempted me then to settle down for the

winter, I went on to Brighton.

   I had for some time contemplated a republication
of the various essays I had written for quarterly reviews

and other periodicals. Not being essays in criticism, or

discussions of passing topics, or papers written for those

who seek to kill a vacant hour, but being the vehicles

of ideas which, as it seemed to me, were of permanent

value, and on the elaboration of which I had spent much

trouble, I, from the outset, looked forward to a time

598

'Et- 36-37]    SOME SIGNIFICANT ESSAYS

form of a volume. They had now become sufficiently

numerous; and while at Brighton I prepared them for

republication. The preparation consisted not in any

modifications of substance, either by additions or sub

tractions or alterations; but simply in improvements of

expression. Whether or not I inherit the liking for re

vision from my father, who was much given to correcting

both his own writing, and that of others, I do not know.
But all through my life I have had a pleasure in doing

that which to many authors gives pain. Matter which

has been revised in manuscript, and again revised in

proof, always presents itself to me as needing revision

when I have decided to republish it; and even on a sec

ond republication the need to go carefully through it

again is peremptory with me. When revising print, or

even re-revising the sight of page on which therea
                                                  a
                  it,
                                                       I
                       a                                  It I

                                                                       is
                                                                            it
                                                                                          al
does not occur sprinkling of erasures and marginal

terations, gives me vague feeling that have not done

my duty by it; and not unfrequently go over again

to see whether anywhere briefer expression can be sub
             a

                it
                     is

                                          a
stituted or superfluous word omitted.             surprising

how difficult  to write in succession any considerable

number of sentences which are in all respects proof
against criticism -- surprising, too, to discover, after the

lapse of years, how many imperfections had been on pre

vious occasions overlooked.

One of the Members of Parliament from Brighton in

those days, Mr. Conyngham, was an acquaintance of

mine; and when one day called upon him, he sug
             I
                    I

                                                                                     a
gested that should accompany him to call on Buckle

(recently made famous by the first volume of his History

of Civilization in England), who had taken house in

                                             599

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1856-7

to Buckle, I was a little startled to see a face and head

Inot unfamiliar to me. Presently I remembered that

had often seen him at the cigar-divan in the Strand,

some ten years before, at a time when I frequently spent

the Sunday evening there. He was a chess-player of

note; and in those days the cigar-divan was one of the

chief places of meeting for men given to chess. He must
have become bald very early; for the absence of hair,
pretty much as marked in 1846 as in 1857, was one of

the traits by which I remembered him. I cannot recall

anything that passed; but existing between us as there
did, some sympathy of feeling, though not much com

munity of idea, the introduction initiated an acquaint

anceship.

   Towards the close of October or beginning of No
vember, I had completed all the work that was practi
cable at Brighton, and went back to London.

600

APPENDICES.


                 APPENDIX A.

                           SKEW ARCHES.
[From the " Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal" for May, 1839.]
Sir, -- The usual method of obtaining the spiral courses, in

drawings of skew arches, is productive of much labour.

   I have been led to believe that the following plan is much

simpler, more expeditious, and consequently easier of com
prehension; and although the same idea may possibly have
occurred to others, it may not be so generally known as to be
entirely unacceptable.

   A spiral is defined as being a line traced upon the surface of

a cylinder, by the extremity of a revolving radius, which
radius has also a uniform motion along the axis.

                                       Fig. 1.

   Let AB, fig. 1, be a cylinder, and DE any line making an

                                                  603

                                 APPENDICES

locus of a point having a uniform motion, in each of the direc

tions DB, DF, and if the line DE be wrapped round the
cylinder, it will still possess the same property, only that the
motion in the direction DF, will be transformed to a motion
round the cylinder, and the line will thus become a spiral.

  I have said this in order to show, as clearly as possible, that

a straight line, when wrapped round a cylinder, produces a

curve conforming to the definition of a true spiral, and will

now proceed to explain the simplest method I have found of

projecting this curve.

  If a piece of paper, having a straight edge, represented by

the line DE, be rolled round a cylinder, it will be found that
all the points H, K, &c, will approach the cylinder, in vertical

planes perpendicular to the axis, the edges of which planes

are represented by the lines LH, MK.
   Hence it will be seen, that to ascertain the position of any

point H, when the line DE is wrapped round the cylinder, we
have only to wrap round the line LH; this may easily be done
by drawing an end view G, of the cylinder, and taking NP
equal to LH, finding NH' the length of the curve equal to
NP,* and projecting the point H' to H", we obtain the posi
tion that H will occupy upon the cylinder. In the same

manner all the points in the curve may be found.

   We now come to the practical application.

   Fig. 2.--Let ABCD denote the outlines of the plan of the
soffit of a skew arch, and let EFG be drawn making the proper

anglef with the face.

   Then by the plan I have just described, the line EG may be
wrapped round the cylinder, and E' FG' the curve generated,
will represent one of the spiral courses. Now each of the
courses of a skew arch would, if produced, wrap itself round
the cylinder, and present a curve similar to E' FG', hence

                                                                                                                   V

   * This may be done by calculation, but measurement by compasses is
near enough for practical purposes.

  f This line would be at right angles to the face, on the surface half

way between the soffit and crown. (See Mr. Fox's pamphlet on Skew
Arches.)

                                             604

                 SKEW ARCHES

every one of the courses of the arch will be a portion of this

        then, mould be cut to the curve E' FG',
Icurve;

           if,

                              a
                                                         is

                                                                                       it
                                                                                                      is
evident that by setting on the proper distances, along the lines

AG' E'C, and applying the mould to the corresponding points,

all the courses may be drawn, as shown on the figure, with

little trouble.

believe the common practice    to project each of these

                         Fig.

joints on the soffit separately; where the arch                                              brick, and
I

                   is
                                             is

                                                       aa
                                                                                      is is
each course shown, this  work of much labour.

The same principle, with little modification,                                                applicable

to the other views of the arch, more particularly to the outline

of the development of the soffit, only that in this case the

operation unrolling instead of rolling the line.

In case any may not understand the preceding explanations,

would recommend those who feel interested in the matter to

try the experiments with the paper and wooden roller, and

they will quickly perceive the principle.

B. & G. Railway-office,        Yours obediently,
                                            H. Spencer.
          Worcester.

                         605

                 APPENDIX B

                  GEOMETRICAL THEOREM.

[From the " Civil Engineer and Architect' s Journal" for July, 1840.]

  Sir, -- I believe that the following curious property of a
circle has not hitherto been noticed ; or if it has, I am not

aware of its existence in any of our works on Geometry.

                                                                                     C

   Let ABCDE be a circle, of which ACD is any given seg
ment: Let any number of triangles ABD, ACD, &c, be

                                             606

                       GEOMETRICAL THEOREM

drawn in this segment, and let circles be inscribed in these
triangles: their centres F, G, &c. are in the arc of a circle,
whose centre is at E, the middle of the arc of the opposite

segment AED.

                               Demonstration.

  Join AF, FD, AG, GD; then since F is the centre of the
circle, inscribed in the triangle ABD, the lines AF, FD, bisect
the angles BAD, BDA. (Euc. B. 4, P. 4). For a like reason
AG, GD, bisect the angles CAD, CDA; hence the angles
FAD, FDA, together, are equal to half the angles, BAD, BDA
together, and the angles GAD, GDA together, to half the
angles CAD, CDA together. Now the angles ABD, ACD, are

equal (being in the same segment) therefore the angles

BAD, BDA together, are equal to the angles CAD, CDA
together, and as the halves of equals are equal, the angles
FAD, FDA together are equal to the angles GAD,
GDA together; that is in the two triangles AFD, AGD,

two angles of the one, are together equal to two angles of the

other, and therefore the third angle AFD, is equal to the third
angle AGD. The same reasoning will prove that all angles
similarly circumstanced to AFD, are also equal to AGD:
therefore, the points A, F, G, D, are in an arc of a circle.

   Join BF, and produce it to cut the opposite circumference
in E and join EA, ED ; then because the angle ABE, is equal
to the angle DBE, the segment AE, is equal to the segment
ED, and the chord AE, to the chord ED. Again the angles
ABE, EDA, are equal (being in the same segment), and by
construction, the angle ADF is equal to the angle FDB,
therefore the whole angle EDF, is equal to the two ABF,
FDB, that is to the two FBD, FDB, that is to the exterior
angle EFD ; therefore the angle EFD, is equal to the angle

                                                   607

                                  APPENDICES

same reasoning would prove EF to be equal to a line drawn
from G, to the point E. Wherefore the point E is the centre

of a circle, of which F and G, as also the centres of all other
circles similarly inscribed, are in the circumference.

                                                                  H. Spencer.
   Birmingham and Gloucester Railway Office,

                        Worcester.

                                                 608


                            B

TE

                APPENDIX C.

                            VELOCIMETER.

      An Instrument for Calculating Velocities on
                                 Railways, &c.

\From the " Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal" for July, 1842.]

  The instrument represented in the annexed plate, which I

have named a " Velocimeter," is intended to supersede the
long calculations, frequently necessary, in obtaining veloci
ties in engine trials.

   When the times of passing the quarter mile posts only are
noted, such an apparatus is hardly called for, since, the dis
tances being constant, a table may readily be made out which
will give the velocities due to the different times ; but it is a
common practice, and perhaps a more satisfactory one, to
note the times taken in traversing the several gradients,
where the distances as well as the times are variable. The
lengths of the inclines are generally fractional, and probably
no two are the same, and none of the times of travelling over
them are equal ; consequently each case involves a distinct
calculation, and where the trials have been extensive, several

days may be occupied in making these reductions. It is,

therefore, a desideratum to have some other means of obtain
ing the velocities, than that afforded by the ordinary methods
of calculation.

   The instrument devised for this purpose, is another applica
tion of that very important geometrical principle --the equal
ity of the ratios of the sides of similar triangles. In the right

                  40 609

         APPENDICES

angled triangle ABC (fig. 1), let AB be taken to represent
any given number of minutes and seconds, and AC the num

ber of miles and chains passed over in that time. Then, if
AB be produced until it becomes equivalent to an hour, and

from its extremity D, a perpendicular be drawn intersecting

AC produced in E, AE will represent the number of miles

that would have been traversed in the hour had the motion

been continued, that is, it will indicate the rate per hour at

which the distance AC was travelled. Now, if AE be made

to revolve round A, and to take any other positions, as AE' or
AE", it is clear that the relations will still be the same, and
that if any distances AC, or AC", be described in the time
AB, AE' and AE" will indicate the respective rates per hour.
If, in addition to this, BC be made moveable along AD, or,

what is the same thing, if AD be divided into minutes and

seconds, and lines be drawn from the divisions parallel to

BC, we shall be able to adjust the revolving line, to any

distances and times, within the limits that may be allowed

by the arrangement.

   It will probably be objected, that if the line AD, represent

ing an hour, is to be divided into minutes and seconds, its

length must be so great as to make the instrument too
unwieldy for common use. This difficulty is, however, very

readily surmounted.

  If AD (fig. 2) be taken to represent a quarter of an hour,

instead of an hour as in the last figure, it follows, that other

things being the same, AE will represent one-fourth of the
number of miles per hour ; that is, if AE had four times the

                                          if

                                             it
                                                                     if,
number of divisions, it would indicate the rate per hour;

therefore, AE have two scales, one for adjustment and the

other with divisions one-fourth the size for indication, the

velocities may be read off as before. Or  be desirable to

make use of one-tenth of an hour, instead of one-fourth, we

have only to make the indicating divisions one-tenth of the

size of the adjusting divisions, and the same result will

follow.

         610

c',                             VELOCIMETER

   In the application of this principle to practice, the following
arrangements are made :-- AD is the scale of time, embracing
in this case one-tenth of an hour, or six minutes; each minute
includes 15 divisions, one of which will, therefore, represent
4 seconds, and as each of these may be readily bisected by the
eye, the scale may be considered as divided into periods of

two seconds each. AE is the scale of distance, turning on the

centre A, the adjusting scale being divided into 4 miles, and
each of these subdivided into 80 chains ; the same space is
divided on the indicating scale into 40 miles, and each of these
into eighths, ten miles on the one scale being equivalent
to one on the other, in consequence of the time scale extend
ing only to one-tenth of an hour.

   To obtain results by this apparatus, the revolving scale is
moved until the division answering to the number of miles and
chains passed over, is made to coincide with the division, rep
resenting the number of minutes and seconds, occupied in the
transit; and this adjustment being made, the rate per hour is
read off on the indicating scale, at its point of intersection
with the line DB. For instance, a gradient 1 mile 25 chains
long, is traversed in 2 minutes 48 seconds; what is the velocity?
The divisions corresponding to these data being made to coin
cide, as shown at (a), the point of intersection on the indi
cating scale is examined, and the velocity found to be rather
more than 28 miles per hour, which is the result given by
calculation.

   Again, a locomotive travels I mile 54 chains, in 4 minutes
40 seconds ; required, the rate per hour. The revolving scale
is moved as before, until the distance division I mile 54 chains
at (6), is brought to (&') on the division of 4 miles 40 sec

onds ; the edge of the scale will then occupy the line A and
the point (c) on the scale will have arrived at the point of

intersection (O, showing the velocity to be rather more than

21J miles per hour.
   Of the three data time, distance, and velocity, any two being

                                                  611

                      APPENDICES

employed in finding times, and distances, as well as velocities.
Thus, having fixed the velocity at which the trains on a rail

way are to travel, and knowing the distances between the

stations, the times of arrival may be ascertained, by adjusting

the revolving scale to the required velocity, and noting the

times corresponding to the given distances, and should the

results be unsuitable, other velocities may be assumed, until

the desired ends are fulfilled.

  I have constructed two of these instruments, one for small,
and the other for greater distances. The first (as far as I can

remember, for it is not now in my possession), is about half

as large again as the accompanying drawing, and has the same

arrangement, except that the indicating scale extends to 45,

instead of 40 miles, and the time scale has double the number
of divisions, so that differences of a second are appreciable.

The other has a time scale extending to 15 minutes, each
minute being subdivided into periods of 4 seconds, so that
differences in time of 2 seconds are available. The scale of

distance has the adjusting scale divided into 11J miles, and
each mile is subdivided into distances of 2 chains ; the indi

cating scale extends to 45 miles, and each mile is divided into
tenths. In both cases, the subdivisions of the time scale are

made by lines of different colours, so as to avoid confusion.

These instruments, although made of Bristol board, and

having a needle for the pivot of the revolving scale, gave

results within one-eighth of a mile per hour of the truth ; an

approximation quite near enough for ordinary purposes. They
were used for some time in engine trials, on the Birmingham

and Gloucester Railway, and were found to answer very

satisfactorily.

                                  Herbert Spencer.

Derby, May 13, 1842.

                      612



APPENDIX D.

                SCALE OF EQUIVALENTS.

                 [Devised and made in 1841, but not published.]

   Having occasion between two and three years since [this
was written about 1842] to reduce a long list of distances
given in inches and tenths into decimals of feet, it occurred to
me that by making use of a geometrical representation of the

relative values of the component parts I might be able to read

off the results without the aid of any calculation. The method

adopted was this. A line, AB, being taken to represent a foot

was divided on the one side into 120 divisions representing

o 12                                                 12

Ii'i'i'I1 H Vt'i1 I HHtH I \ LrLTJ 11 I \  \ '1  H

tenths of inches and on the other into 100 divisions represent
ing decimals of a foot; and the divisions having been num
bered as usual, for convenience of reading, the equivalent of
each dimension given in inches and tenths was read off on
the other side of the scale in the new denomination. The

same method was evidently applicable to superficial and solid
quantity as well as to linear, and to weights and values as

well as to quantities.
   On reconsidering the subject some time afterwards, it oc

curred to me that an apparatus might be made which would
be universally applicable to the reduction of quantities,

613

                       APPENDICES

accompanying plate represents, in a completed form but of

half the size, the instrument which I constructed for this

purpose. AB is a line divided into equal parts; AC a line

drawn at right angles to it; and C a point taken in AC to
which convergent lines are drawn from the divisions in AB :
the lines beyond BC being drawn to divisions in AB produced,

but subsequently cut off.

   It follows from a simple geometrical principle that any line
drawn parallel to AB, and cutting the converging lines, is

divided by them into equal parts; and that, consequently, a
line may be moved along parallel to AB, until there is found a

place at which it is divided into a desired number of equal

parts : supposing that such number falls within the limits of

the scale. This fact is taken advantage of thus. A moveable
scale, EF, is kept parallel to the line AB, by an arm MD,

sliding in a dovetailed groove, shown in section at G. This

scale is divided into such number of equal divisions as may

be thought most generally useful : one edge being divided

decimally and the other duodecimally ; or in a different way if

required for some special purpose. Of course, the divisions

must be in any case so arranged that the zero of the scale may

coincide with the line AC.

  If now the divisions on the scale be assumed to represent

units of any denomination, either of length, surface, bulk,

weight, or value; andis
                  if,

                                a
                                                        a

                                                                                     ;
                       knowing that certain number of

these units equivalent to certain number in some other

denomination, the scale be slid forward until the divisions

representing the equivalent numbers coincide then any quan

tity of the one kind will have its corresponding value in the

other indicated by the opposite division.

   For instance, 51.796 French kilogrammes are equal to 112
lbs. English and, taking multiples for the sake of accuracy,
;

                C

                          k

                                           h if
880.5 kilogrammes equal 1904 lbs. Then                                                  the scale be

moved along towards until the division at (880.5) coin

cides with the division at (1904) on the converging lines, we

                       614

                        SCALE OF EQUIVALENTS

by the dotted line kl; and we shall then have a line, repre
sented by the edge of the scale, divided on the one side into
kilogrammes and on the other into English pounds. Hence
any weight short of 2000 lbs., stated either in the French or
the English denomination, may have its value in the opposite
denomination read off at sight.

   In the same manner prices and sums of money stated in
some Continental currency, may have their relative values in
English money ascertained ; and the calculations called for by
the varying rates of exchange with foreign countries, may
readily be performed.

   The system is applicable not only to the reduction of quan
tities from one denomination into another, but also to the

calculation of equivalents of different orders. Thus, if any

quantities given in bulk have their values in weight required,
the process will be just the same: a certain number of the
units of quantity corresponds to some other number of the
units of weight, and the scale being adjusted so that these
divisions coincide the results are read off as before. Again a
list of tons and cwts. of some material charged at per ton,
may have the values of the several items found; by using a
sliding scale properly divided for the purpose, and assuming
the large numbered divisions to represent tons. In short, any
calculation coming within the sphere of ordinary proportion,
provided it be within the limits of the scale, may be performed
by it. The instrument is not intended to be employed in
those cases where a single calculation only has to be made :
the time required for adjustment would probably be greater
than that taken in obtaining the result by the ordinary method.
But its advantages are to be gained in cases where a number
of operations of the same kind have to be gone through.

   It must be understood that the divisions may be used in a

variety of ways. Thus the spaces between the black num
bered lines may be taken as units and their divisions as deci
mals, the large ones being tenths and their sub-divisions (not

                                         6i5

                                  APPENDICES
in the drawing may represent one and their sub-divisions
tenths: each of the great divisions being then read as 10.
And again, each of the ultimate divisions may be considered a
unit, as instanced in the first example of the application of
the instrument. The same variety of assumptions may be
made with the moveable scale ; and if it be remembered that in
addition to the extended application allowed by making these
assumptions, we may employ several scales with divisions of
different magnitudes, it will be seen that there are few cases in
which the instrument may not be advantageously used. To
make the apparatus quite complete, the sliding scale may have
a vernier attached, as shown at K.

   On a first trial with the original instrument which is made
of cardboard, and is otherwise incomplete in several points,
and therefore takes longer intervals for adjustment, reading
off, &c, than a perfect one would do, it was found that the
time taken by a fast calculator (after he had found the con
stant) was just double that required by the instrument. With
a perfect apparatus and a little practice the ratio would prob
ably be made much greater.

                                                  616

APPENDIX E.

IDEAS ABOUT A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE.

   [The following memoranda were made either at the close
of 1843 or at the beginning of 1844. The primary aim was

that of obtaining the greatest brevity, and, consequently, a
structure mainly, or almost wholly, monosyllabic was pro

posed. Hence the table with which the memoranda begin, is

a calculation respecting the number of good monosyllables

Ithat can be formed by the exhaustive use of good consonants
and good vowel sounds.  have thought it better to let these

memoranda stand as they originally did; though, being set

Idown when was but 23, and without any extensive in

quiries into the matter, they are of course very imperfectly
Ithought out. Respecting the table may say that, on looking
Inow at the method of estimation,
                                   suspect the number of

monosyllables is considerably greater than that given.']

List of Single Syllables.

With the 8 Simple Vowels.

Syllables with simple initial consonant and vowel. . .      144
                        do. do...                           144
Do. with terminal                                         2592
                                                        29664
With simple consonants initial and terminal
With compound do.                                           324
                        do.                                 324
                                                          5832
With the 18 Compound Vowels.                            66744

Syllables with simple initial consonant and vowel . .

Do. with terminal       do.                  do. . .

With simple consonants initial and terminal
With compound do.
                        do.

                        Total monosyllables             105768
                            617

         APPENDICES

                          Addenda (Simple Vowels).           240
Syllables with initial compound consonant and vowel           528

Do. terminal do.                                  do.        540
                                                            1 188
                                 Compound Vowels.      and
Syllables with initial compound consonants             and

   vowels
Syllables with terminal compound consonants

vowels

                          Total                             108264

[The following were suggestions made respecting the

constructions and uses of these syllables.]

All nouns to have the short vowel in the singular, and the

plural to be denoted by changing it into the long vowel.

   The compound vowels -j, "O, t> *"» &c., which are not

capable of the short sound, to be used for adjectives; and

jthe vowel to be in some degree indicative of the quality of the

adjective. Let, for instance, all adjectives indicative of good
quality be made with the  and those of the bad with

the -^.

All nouns to be perfect articulations, beginning and ending

with consonants, and let them show their relationships to each

other by the initial or terminal consonant.            All abstract

nouns might, for instance, commence with the nasals. All

inanimate nouns with the mutes. All animate with the semi-

vocals.

   All words which are nearly related to one another in mean

ing to have their relationships indicated by identity of con
sonants --the vowel sounds being different ; so that there may

be no chance of mistake arising from imperfect articulation.

It is necessary that words having related meanings should

have marked differences of sound, because the context will

not show which is intended when the articulation is indis

tinct.

   The change of nouns into adjectives and adjectives into
verbs, to be produced by the addition of consonants without

in any case making an additional syllable.
                                             618

           IDEAS ABOUT A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

   [There were, I remember, sundry plans not here set down,

by the aid of which the choice of words for things and

actions was to be made systematic ; so that there should be

comparatively little arbitrary choice. A cardinal idea was

that in each genus of things or actions, the generic word
should always have the indefinite, or most general, vowel-
sound, the e in err--the sound made without any adjust
ment of the vocal organs, and the sound first made by the
infant. This would, as it were, express the genus in its
undifferentiated state ; and the specific kinds of things falling
within the genus, would severally have the same consonants
but would contain the various definite vowels, simple and
compound. Thus, supposing an elevation of surface, small
or great, to be expressed by a syllable which, between its
initial and terminal consonants, had the indefinite vowel
sound of e in err, then the kinds of elevation --hillock, mound,
hill, mountain, great mountain, peak, &c. -- would be severally
indicated by words in which the same two consonants would

include between them others of the various vowels. A fur

ther idea was to use what may be called analogical onoma
topoeia: the small and petty things being in every case indi
cated by thin unsonorous vowels, and great or imposing
things by open and sonorous vowels: the degrees in size
following the scale, e, a, a (ah), aw, o, oo. Variations
among these various sizes were to be implied by compound
vowels severally formed out of these simple vowels. Thus a
hillock, or very small elevation, would, using the same con
sonants, have the vowel e (as in see) ; an elevation of
medium size, as a hill, would have the open a (as in ah),
while the greater elevations, mountains and peaks, would
have the vowel sounds aw, o, oo, to severally distinguish
their respective sizes. This done systematically would, be
sides excluding, in large measure, arbitrary choice, give to
the very sounds themselves a great suggestiveness. The
mental association would be rendered irresistible, both by its

naturalness and by its perpetual recurrence.

                                             619

                                  APPENDICES

   Of course the same system would be adopted in the choice
of words for adjectives and verbs : the degree of a quality and
the power of an action being similarly indicated by grada
tions from the feebly-sounding vowels to the loud-sounding
vowels. The result of these selections would be that even
when some sentence was very indistinctly heard, it would be
known at once whether it concerned small things and feeble
actions or great things and forcible ones.

   Systematic choice of words was to be carried out in an
other way. The most euphonious consonants were to be
used for things and qualities and acts of most frequent occur
rence in speech, and the less and less euphonious ones for the
things and qualities and acts gradually decreasing in the fre
quency of their use. While this would serve as one guide
in the selection of consonants, another guide would be the
analogical onomatopoeia : the euphonious consonants being
used for things which appeal agreeably to the feelings, and
the less and less euphonious ones for things which are less
attractive in their natures, or are repulsive. Two such
words as " rough " and " smooth " exemplify the use of both
consonants and vowels under guidance of analogical onoma
topoeia ; for the vowel-sound in " smooth " is one appropri
ately indicating something unresisting and regular, such as a
smooth surface, while the first consonantal sound in " rough "
well expresses the irregular and resisting quality of a surface.

Evidently selections of vowels and consonants, if habitually

made in these ways, would still further limit the arbitrariness
of choice, and would still further tend to make the language
both euphonious and expressive.

   Among further memoranda there were " Notes for a sys

tem of verbs," which I do not reproduce, because, although I

see no reason to abandon the general idea, the matter is one

requiring wider inquiry than I gave to it. I may simply say

that the avowed intention was that of carrying out completely
the mode of organization to which our own language, in

                                                  620

           IDEAS ABOUT A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

entire abandonment of inflections, and the development of a
complete set of relational words to indicate the several con
ditions under which an action occurs. The implied belief
was that since each kind of action remains in itself the same,
whatever may be its circumstances in respect of position in
time or relation to actor or actors, the sign of such action
should similarly remain constant; and that all its various
relations of person, tense, and mood, should be expressed
entirely by appropriate relational words. Of course the same
principle was to be carried out in the case of nouns.]

Memoranda concerning Advantages to be Derived from
         the Use of 12 as a Fundamental Number.

The fact that 12 has been so generally chosen as a con

venient number for enumeration of weights and measures, is

presumptive proof that it must have many advantages. We

have 12 oz. = 1 pound in Troy weight and Apothecaries
weight, 12 pence = one shilling, 12 months in the year, 12

signs to the Zodiac, 12 lines to the inch, 12 inches to the foot,

12 sacks one last, and 12 digits. Of multiples of 12 we have

24 grains one pennyweight, 24 sheets one quire, 24 hours one

day, 60 minutes one hour, 360 degrees to the circle.
   Were our number of notation altered to 12, our multiplica

tion table, going up to 12 times 12, would then agree in its

extent with the requirements of the system ; it would go as

far as necessary and no further.

The great advantage, however, is the easy divisibility. 10

divides completely only by 2 and 5, of which the last is of
comparatively little use, as fifths are seldom required. 12

divides completely by 2, 3, 4, and 6.
   To make a proper comparison of these divisibilities we

may reject those in each class which are on a par.  bad and
   In the two sets division by 7 is equally bad.
   9 in the one and 11 in the other are equally

equally unimportant.

621

                                     APPENDICES

   6 in the one and 10 in the other are equally bad and equally
unimportant.

   The 8's in both cases are nearly equal, but in the 12 scale
is rather the best.

   The 2 is common to both.
   Of the remainder of the 10 scale 5 is perfect; but fifths

                                     10 divided by

Div. Gives.  Quotient.   Character.

2            5           Complete      2 complete.
                             Bad      , 2 middling.
3--          3 3333                    4 bad.
             25          Middling
4            2
                         Complete
5            1 6666          Bad
6
             1 4285          Bad
7                        Middling
8            mi1 25
                             Bad
9--          1

                12 divided by

Div. Gives.  Quotient.   Character.

2            6           Complete
                         Complete
3   --       4                         4 complete.
4   --                   Complete     · 2 middling.
    --       3               Bad
5   --       2 '497                    4 bad.
6   --       2           Complete
                             Bad
7   --       1 -86(12)
8   --       16          BadMiddling
                             Bad
 9           14
10
             1  -2m49 i
11 ~--
             I

are comparatively little wanted; while 3 is bad and 4 mid
dling.

   Of the other scale 3, 4, and 6 are perfect, 9 is middling, and

5 is bad.

                                                  622

      IDEAS ABOUT A UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE

from several points of view. In the first place it affords

facility in the practice of division. Under the present sys

tem there are only two numbers out of the 12 whose capa

bility of dividing can be seen by inspection, and these are 2

iand 5 ; that is, 2 out of 12, or of the whole number.

   In the other system inspection will show whether any

number is divisible by 2, 3, 4, and 6 ; that  is,  14  figures out of

the 12, or  J.       Thus  is it   clear that less time will be lost in
                               is
trial divisions.
                                 if
Nor does this facility apply only to cases of short division:

an increased facility also produced in long division. Under

the present arrangement,              the last digit of the quotient ends

with or the possibility of division may be seen on inspec
2           5,
tion, that is, in figures out of 10 or only of the cases.: 3,
  it                 2                     if i J

Under the other arrangement the same facility would be

given to 2, 4, and or out of 12, or of the cases.
   To sum up -- In respect of divisibility, we exclude from
                           6,
                                   4

the comparison the equally bad and the equally middling

cases, results that the 12-notation has just twice the advan

tages of the 10-notation. And in respect of dividing-power

we see that the advantages of the first as compared with

those of the second are in some cases as to and in other
                                           2

cases as to
      5
                 3.

                                      623

                APPENDIX F.

REMARKS ON THE THEORY OF RECIPROCAL DE
    PENDENCE IN THE ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE
    CREATIONS AS REGARDS ITS BEARING UPON
    PALEONTOLOGY.

       [From the " Philosophical Magazine" for February, 1844.]

   Upon perusing an article which some time since appeared
in the " Philosophical Magazine," explanatory of M. Dumas'
views respecting the peculiar relationship which exists be
tween plants and animals,* in so far as their action upon the
atmosphere is concerned, it occurred to me that the doctrine
there set forth involved an entirely new and very beautiful
explanation of the proximate causes of progressive develop
ment ; and as the idea does not seem to have been yet started,
perhaps I may be allowed to make your journal the medium
for its publication.

   In unfolding the several results of the theory and exhibit
ing its application in the solution of natural phenomena, M.
Dumas adverts to the fact, that not only do the organisms of
the vegetable kingdom decompose the carbonic acid which
has been thrown into the atmosphere by animals, but that
they likewise serve for the removal of those extraneous sup
plies of the same gas which are being continually poured
into it through volcanos, calcareous springs, fissures, and
other such channels. It is to the corollary deducible from
this proposition, respecting the alterations that have taken

          * " Philosophical Magazine," Series 3, vol. xix, p. 337.
                                             624

           THEORY OF RECIPROCAL DEPENDENCE

place in the composition of that atmosphere, that attention

is requested.

  If it had been found that during the past epochs of the

world's existence, animals had always borne such a propor
tion to plants as to insure the combustion of the whole of the

carbon assimilated by them from the air, or in other words, if

the carbon-reducing class had always been exactly balanced
by the carbon-consuming class, it would then follow that, as
the gas decomposed in the one case was wholly recomposed
in the other, the only change that could have taken place in
the character of the atmosphere would have been a deteriora
tion resulting from the continual influx of carbonic acid from

the above-mentioned sources. Such, however, were not the
conditions of the case ; for it is manifest, not only from the
nature of existing arrangements, but likewise from the rec
ords of the world's history, that the vegetable kingdom has
always had such a preponderance as to accumulate a much
larger supply of carbon than could be consumed by animals.

This was especially the fact in the earlier aeras. During
those vast periods that expired before the appearance of
mammalia, and whilst animate life was chiefly confined to
rivers and seas, nearly the whole of the immense masses of
vegetation that then covered the land, apparently with a
much more luxuriant growth than now, must have lived and

died untouched by quadrupeds ; and even though a certain
portion of the carbon taken by them from the atmosphere
was again restored to it in the process of decomposition, by
far the greater bulk seems to have remained in its uncom-
bined form. Even after the creation of the higher orders of
vertebrata, when the forests were inhabited by the Mylodon
with its congeners, and subsequently by the elephant and
others of the Pachydermata, it cannot be supposed that there
was ever by their instrumentality an equilibrium produced

between those antagonist agencies --the vegetable and animal
creations. For although herds of such creatures would

doubtless commit extensive ravages upon the vegetation amid
                   41 625

                                  APPENDICES

which they existed, it must be remembered that they could
only consume the young and comparatively succulent por
tions of the trees upon which they fed, whilst the whole of
the carbon contained in the trunks and older branches would
remain untouched. That the same preponderance in the
assimilative power of the vegetable organisms over the con
suming power of the animal ones exists at the present day
is abundantly evident.

   The fact of there having been a larger abstraction of car
bon from the atmosphere by the decomposition of its car
bonic acid gas than has ever been returned to it, will,
however, be most distinctly proved by a reference to purely
geological data. The vast accumulations of carbonaceous
matter contained in the numerous coal-basins distributed over
the surface of the globe, the large proportion of bitumen
existing in many of the secondary deposits, to say nothing
of the uncombined carbon which must be diffused through a
great part of the strata composing the Earth's crust, bear
palpable witness to the truth of the position. All such com
bustible material has been originally derived from the air, and
the fact of its remaining to the present day unoxidized, and
bidding fair to continue in the same condition (setting aside
human agency), for an indefinite period, strongly favours the
conclusion that the carbon of which it is composed has been
permanently reduced from the gaseous combination in which
it previously appeared.

   If, then, it be conceded that the carbonic acid which, during

the past aeras escaped out of the Earth, has been continually
undergoing the process of de-carbonization, it follows as an
apparently legitimate consequence, that its remaining con
stituent, the oxygen, being thus constantly liberated and dif
fused into the atmosphere, now exists in that medium in a
larger proportion than it originally did, and that it has from
the commencement of vegetable life to the present day been

ever on the increase.

                                                  626

           THEORY OF RECIPROCAL DEPENDENCE

It will possibly be said that the carbonic acid which in time

past issued by various channels out of the Earth, arose from
the slow combustion of carbonaceous deposits produced in
the same way as those now existing; that the continuance of
the like phenomenon in our own day is due to the gradual
destruction of the same material; and that the strata of our
coal-fields are fated to undergo, by some future volcanic
agency, a similar revolution, and have their carbon once more
sent into the air in company with oxygen. Or it might per
haps be argued that the oxygen set free by the instrumental
ity of plants has entered into combination with some other
element in place of the carbon with which it was associated,
and has thus been again abstracted from the air as fast as it

was added to it.
   The first of these objections is plausible, in so far as the

possibility of such an arrangement is concerned, though it
does not appear to be countenanced by facts. Neither the
positions usually occupied by volcanos, nor the phenomena
attending their eruptions, seem to indicate that the carbonic
acid they evolve proceeds directly from the combustion of
carbonaceous matter. They rather imply that it has been
driven off from its combinations by heat or chemical affinity.
In the cases of calcareous springs itwould also appear that the
gas liberated by them had been previously in connexion
with an earth, it may be for an indeterminate period. More
over, it should be borne in mind that the ultimate tendency
of all chemical changes taking place in the interior of the
globe must be to oxidize the most combustible elements ; and
since the greater part of the abundant metallic bases have a
stronger affinity for oxygen than carbon has, its con
tinual de-oxidation would result, rather than any action of
the opposite character. But even admitting the existence of
some play of affinities by which the carbonaceous matter de
posited in the course of one aera is transformed into carbonic
acid and given back to the atmosphere during another, there

                                             627

                       APPENDICES

ing system; for it is clear that the oxygen which accompanies

the carbon in each of its re-appearances above ground has

been derived from some internal source, and when it has once

issued into the air and been deprived of its carbon it has no

visible means of regaining its previous condition, and must

consequently remain in the air. On this assumption, there

fore, we are still brought in a great degree to the same

conclusion. Here, indeed, the second objection may perhaps

be brought in aid of the first, and in such case it would be

said that the oxygen after being liberated is again absorbed

by other agencies, and ultimately carried down once more
into the interior. This however, rather groundless sup
                       is                      a
                                     is,
                                                                        it
position there being no apparent mode in which such pro
is

                    :
cess could be carried on, seeing that the surface of the Earth

    already oxidized, and, as far as we can judge, has always

been so.

    Assuming, then, that the proposed theory, supported as

is  by the fact that the constituents of the atmosphere, are not

in atomic proportions, and borne out likewise by the forego

ing arguments,         correct, let us mark the inferences which

may be drawn respecting the effects produced upon the or

ganic creation.

   Superior orders of beings are strongly distinguished from

inferior ones by the warmth of their blood. A low organiza

tion uniformly accompanied by low temperature, and in
is
        is

                                      a
                                     a

                                                                   a
                                                                 is

                                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                 is
                                                                                             it
ascending the scale of creation we find that, setting aside

partial irregularities, one of the most notable circumstances

   the increase of heat. It has been further shown, by mod

ern discoveries, that such augmentation of temperature  the

direct result of greater consumption of oxygen and

would appear that quick combustion of carbonaceous mat

ter through the medium of the lungs the one essential con

dition to the maintenance of that high degree of vitality and

nervous energy without which exalted psychical or physical

endowments cannot exist.

                                          628

            THEORY OF RECIPROCAL DEPENDENCE

increase in the amount of atmospherical oxygen, we are natu
rally led to the conclusion that there must of necessity have
been a gradual change in the character of the animate crea

tion. If a rapid oxidation of the blood is accompanied by a

higher heat and a more perfect mental and bodily develop

ment, and if in consequence of an alteration in the composi

tion of the air greater facilities for such oxidation are afford
ed, it may be reasonably inferred that there has been a corre
sponding advancement in the temperature and organization
of the world's inhabitants.

   Now this deduction of abstract reasoning we know to be in
exact accordance with geological observations. An inspec
tion of the records of creation demonstrates that such change
has taken place, and although remains have from time to time
been found which prove that beings of an advanced develop
ment existed at an earlier period than was previously sup
posed, still the broad fact is not by any means invalidated.

A retrospective view of the various phases of animal life,

tracing it through the extinct orders of mammalia, saurians,
fishes, crustacea, radiata, zoophytes, &c, shows distinctly
that whatever may have been the oscillations and irregulari
ties produced by incidental causes, the average aspect never
theless indicates the law of change alluded to, seeing that
there appears to have been an aera in which the Earth was
occupied exclusively by cold-blooded creatures, requiring but
little oxygen ; that it was subsequently inhabited by animals
of superior organization consuming more oxygen ; and that
there has since been a continual increase of the hot-blooded
tribes and an apparent diminution of the cold-blooded ones.

   Bearing in mind, therefore, the undoubted relationship that
exists between the consumption of oxygen on the one hand
and the degree of vitality and height of organization on the
other, it would appear extremely probable that there is some
connexion between the supposed change in the vital medium
and the increased intensity of life and superiority of con

                                                  629

              APPENDICES

tion that has taken place in the constitution of the atmosphere,

is to be looked upon as the cause of this gradual de

velopment of organic existence, or whether it is to be regard

ed as an arrangement intended to prepare the Earth for the

reception of more perfect creatures, are points which need

not now be entered upon. The question at present to be

            it
               it
                  is,
                                                                  if

                                                                    I
determined    whether the alleged improvement in the com

position of the air has really happened, and, so, whether

that improvement has had anything to do with the changes

that have taken place in the characteristics of the Earth's

inhabitants.

[Sundry objections may be urged against the propositions

embodied in this essay, as well as against its conclusion.

reproduce     not so much because of its intrinsic value as

because       illustrates, in another direction, the speculative

tendency otherwise variously illustrated.]

              630

                  APPENDIX G.

                 LEVELLING APPLIANCES.

  Figs, i and 2 show the old and the new modes of dividing

levelling staves. When by great distance, or waning light,
or fog, or rain, the hundredths are rendered invisible, the
new form renders the tenths visible ; and they can be divided
by the eye with approximate correctness. Further, the cor
respondence between longer lines and higher decimals, ex
cludes certain errors in reading.

   Fig. 3 shows an appliance for plotting sections, ab is a
straight-edge, placed parallel to the datum line cd, at the
appropriate distance, e is a set-square, made thick to admit
of the bevelled edge shown in section at f, Fig. 4. On to this,
and under the clips, hh, is thrust the scale g, to which the
particular section is to be plotted. The zero mark having

been adjusted to the datum line, and the distance points
having been marked, it requires only that the scale should
be brought to each of them, and the corresponding height in
the level-book pricked off : the ground surface, ki, being then
drawn through the marks.

   A new form of level is shown in elevation by Fig. 5, and in

plan by Fig. 6. ab is the telescope (on which is the compass,
c) fixed on an elongated brass plate, ddd. ee is the longi

tudinal bubble, and f is a circular bubble for rough adjust

ment. On the underside of the plate, dd, is a circular rim,
g, shown in section at Fig. 7, which works upon a corre
sponding rim on the upper parallel plate. At » is the conical
head of a screw, on which, as its centre, the plate, dd, rotates.

                                                 631

Hga                     Fig-,2.

fit

      /e

              ^r
^i-
                                            

8§"  1I1111I111         V
                        
  3TM             £ y\
                        SBE

?       Kg-. 4.
     *

                 LEVELLING APPLIANCES

This screw is sufficiently tightened to give firm but easy

rotation, passes through the upper parallel plate into the axis

of the parallel plates; and, the screw being prevented from

rotating, the central axis of the parallel plates is then tight

ened upon  it,  so that thereafter  cannot turn. The advan
                                    it
                                                       is
tages are        that much smaller area                    exposed to the
           (     a
             )1

wind; (2) that this area, being nearer to the point of support,

the wind has less leverage, the result being decreased vibra

tion; and (3) that the bubble and the telescope being inde
pendent of one another, the line of collimation can be easily

adjusted.

                    633

                       APPENDIX H.

        ON A PROPOSED CEPHALOGRAPH.

  I[This instrument was devised at the beginning of 1846,

and the description of it was, as infer from its character,

Iintended to be published in "The Zoist," to which then
Ioccasionally contributed. A sample instrument, which had

made, was so ill made that it would not work. Partly dis

gust and partly pre-occupation prevented me from prosecut

ing the matter at the time, and before my thoughts were

again turned to        iIt,
                                I
                          had become sceptical about current

phrenological views, and no longer felt prompted to employ

a better instrument-maker.           here give the drawings and

description, because, apart from my intended use      of of                                                                may,
                                                           it,
think, be useful to anthropologists as means                  it

                                                                     of
is I                                      of          obtaining
                a
               is                                  a
                    aexact delineationsindividual skulls and, by composition
                       of
                                 of
them, exact delineations             types skulls.]

The use of our present imperfect mode of manipulation has

been great hindrance to the advance of Phrenology. To

determine by touch or inspection, not only the relative sizes

of the organs in given head, but the ratio each of them
                       a
                            a
                                                       a

                                                     It

                                                                     is

                                                                                                                        ;
bears to the average development of the same organ in other

heads,                 task which no man, however acute his perceptions,

competent to execute with precision.                  first necessary

that he should have correct ideal standard with which he

may mentally compare the head under examination and

even supposing him to have had sufficiently wide experi

                                     634

                 ON A PROPOSED CEPHALOGRAPH
improbable), it is still unlikely that out of the variously
formed heads examined, an exact average one has been
conceived, that will correctly serve as a national type, both
of size and configuration.

   Neither is it an easy matter to estimate accurately the com
parative sizes of the different parts of the same head. Be

tween adjacent organs the ratio may be observed with some
nicety, but to ascertain the relative developments of Sym
pathy and Combativeness, it is necessary to get a correct
notion of the general dimensions of the head, and this cannot
be obtained by mere manual examination with anything like
certainty.

   It may be further remarked that our statements of develop

ment must always continue very approximate, so long as we
have no mode of determining how much greater or less than
ordinary each particular organ may be.

                                                  635

                                   APPENDICES
 uring the head --several plans have already been invented,
 but, judging by their disuse, none of them have answered. In
 the hope that it may more effectually serve the intended
 purpose, the writer ventures to propose the instrument about

 to be described.

   ABC (Fig. 1) is a triangular piece of mahogany, ebony, or
other hard wood, having the angle ABC a right angle, and

being similar in general form to what is technically called a

set-square. D and E are smaller set-squares mortised into
the sides of ABC, for the purpose of keeping the edge AB at
right angles to the surface against which the base, CDBE, of

the apparatus is placed, ab is a dovetailed groove, parallel to
AB, and containing two slides, c and d, which are capable of
being fixed by set-screws at any desired points. To these

slides are attached the arms e and f of exactly the same

                                             636

ON A PROPOSED CEPHALOGRAPH

carrying at its extremity a short tube enclosing an accurately

fitted, metal-cased pencil, which is constantly pressed by the

spring g against the surface upon which the instrument is

placed. The general object of the arrangement is to keep

the extremity of the index e, in all cases, vertically above the

point of the pencil f.                              An ap
   Figs. 2, 3, and 4 show the mode of application.

proximate result may be obtained by placing the head against

a door or a wall, with a sheet of paper interposed, requesting
the subject to hold himself as steady as possible. To insure
accurate diagrams, however, it is necessary to make use of a

board, FG (Fig. 2), with a semicircular hoop, HK, moveable
about a hinge, H, at each edge of the board, and having in the
centre a screw, L, with a pad at its extremity, capable of

being pressed against the head with the force requisite to keep

it in the desired situation. A piece of paper having been

attached to the board and the patient fixed, the instrument is
adjusted to the position requisite for describing the intended

                                                  637

                                 APPENDICES
traverse the surface of the head from side to side, or from
front to back, as the case may be, while the pencil f, being
being kept in contact with the paper, traces upon it a dupli
cate of the line moved over by the end of the index, and
describes the required section. It will be seen, from Fig. 2,
that by fixing the index at different points in the groove, as

many transverse sections may be described as are desired.
Fig. 3 shows the same facility for obtaining longitudinal sec

tions. And in Fig. 4 we have the arrangement for drawing
horizontal ones, exhibiting the entire circumference of the

head.
   By superposing diagrams thus made on semi-transparent

paper, there would be obtained an average form characteris
ing the race and serving as a standard with which individual
forms could be compared.

                                                  638

APPENDIX T.

REGISTERED BINDING-PINS, FOR SECURING
     MUSIC AND UNBOUND PUBLICATIONS.

[The little appliance described below, was brought out, not

in my name, but in the name of Messrs. Ackermann and Co.,

Iof 96, Strand (a firm no longer in existence), who undertook
the business arrangements on commission.  am not respon

sible for the wording of the description. It is reproduced

from the advertising leaflet issued by Messrs. Ackermann.]

   The Registered Binding-Pin is in every respect the best
article yet introduced for holding loose manuscripts, sermons,
music, weekly papers, and all unstitched publications.

  It consists simply of a piece of elastic wire bent into the

form and size represented in Fig. 1.
   To secure any periodical, manuscript, or piece of music,

                                                  639

                          APPENDICES

limb being kept on the outside) over the top, and another

over the bottom of the central fold--that is at the points A

and B, Fig. 2. The leaves being then cut (if a newspaper
or periodical) it will be found that the several sheets are

firmly clasped together.

This little apparatus, which appears incapable of further

simplification, possesses several advantages.

   1. It economises time and trouble: a few seconds only

being expended in its application.

  2. It involves no damage to the publication, and the sheets

held by it are in a better state for permanent binding than

after any other treatment.

  3. It presents no obstacle to the folding of the paper in any

direction.

  4. It admits of being used repeatedly, if desired.       than
  5. It is quite out of the way, and is rather ornamental  plain

unsightly.

  6. It is very cheap. Cards containing four dozen

pins are sold for Sixpence, and those containing fifty gilt

pins (especially adapted for music and superior publications)

for One Shilling.

   [On the back of the advertising fly-leaf reproduced above
were a number of highly eulogistic opinions of the Press,
foretelling for the Binding-Pin an extensive and permanent
use. The result, which was that the sales, great at first,
came to an end after a year or so, proved how erroneous
were the conceptions of the critics as to public tastes and

requirements.
   Except in matters of prime necessity, the universal demand

on the part of retailers, probably because it is the demand
on the part of ladies, is for something new. The mania for
novelty is so utterly undiscriminating that in consequence of
it good things continually go out of use, while new and worse
things come into use: the question of relative merit being

scarcely entertained.]

                                             640

                 APPENDIX J.

    THE FORM OF THE EARTH NO PROOF OF
                     ORIGINAL FLUIDITY.

          {From the " Philosophical Magazine" for March, 1847.]

   It has been generally considered that the spheroidal form of
the Earth --indicating as it does obedience to centrifugal
force -- implies a primary state of fluidity. If, however, it

can be shown that, notwithstanding its apparent solidity, the
Earth must be at the present moment entirely subject to the
influences affecting its general figure, and that so far as the
gravitative and centrifugal forces are concerned it is plastic
still, the theory of original fluidity, however probable on
other grounds, can no longer be inferred from the Earth's
oblateness.

   The facts indicative of a varying relationship between the
bulk and tenacity of matter are of every-day observation.
We constantly see a drop of water maintain its sphericity in
spite of opposing forces ; increase the mass, and it flows out
in complete obedience to them. The mud in our streets
stands in ridges behind the passing cart-wheel ; when scraped
together its appears liquid and assumes a horizontal surface.
On the spade of the excavator, clay retains its square figure
and its sharp angles ; but when made into a bulky embank

ment, it will, if the slope be insufficient, spread itself out on

one or both sides of the base : occasionally continuing to slip
until it assumes an inclination of six to one.

                  42 641

                                      APPENDICES

   A comparison of the physical powers of large and small
animals exhibits a series of facts of analogous character. A

flea jumps several hundred times its own length, and is un
injured by collision with any obstacle. The greatest mammals,
on the other hand, seem to possess no agility whatever;
and a concussion borne by the insect with impunity would
smash an elephant to a jelly. Between these extremes may
be observed a gradation in the ratios of power to bulk; so
that commencing with the smaller creatures, every increment
of size is, ceteris paribus, accompanied by an under-propor
tionate increase of strength, until we arrive at that limit (to
which the elephant has evidently approximated) where the
creature is no longer capable of supporting its own frame
work.

    These, and innumerable like facts, point to the inference
that fluidity and solidity are to a great extent qualities of
degree; that the cohesive tenacity of any piece of matter
bears, as the mass of that matter is increased, a constantly
decreasing ratio to the natural forces tending to the fracture
of that matter; and that hence any substance, however solid
to our perceptions, only requires to have its bulk increased
to a certain point, to give way, and become in a sense fluid
before the gravitative and other forces.

   However repugnant to that " common sense," for which
some have so great a respect, this proposition is capable of
a very simple demonstration.

   The strength of a bar of iron, timber, or other material
subjected to the transverse strain, varies as B--D--' ; B being

the breadth, D the depth, and L the length. Suppose the

size of this bar to be changed, while the ratiosof its dimensions

continue the same; then as the fraction -- will remain con

stant, the strength will vary as D* or (since D bears always

the same proportion to B and L) as B' or L*. Hence in

                                                  642

FORM OF EARTH NO PROOF OF ORIGINAL FLUIDITY

strain are as the squares of the linear dimensions. The same

law still more manifestly applies to the longitudinal strain.
Here the strength, depending as it does on the sectional area,

must, in similar masses, vary as the square of any side. And
in the torsion strain we may readily detect the like general

principle, that, other things equal, the resistances to fracture

bear a constant ratio to the squares of the dimensions. [This
                 is,
last statement         think, erroneous; but the error does not
                  it I
affect the argument.]
                         is
                                              if,
   No so, however, with the powers tending to the disruption
of matter. The effects of gravity, centrifugal force, and all

agencies antagonistic to cohesive attraction, vary as the mass,

that is, as the cubes of the dimensions.

However great, therefore, in a given portion of matter,

may be the excess of the form-preserving force over the form-

destroying force,      clear that                  during augmentation of

bulk, the form-preserving force increases only as the squares

of the dimensions, whilst the form-destroying force increases

as their cubes, the first must in time be overtaken and ex
ceeded by the last; and when this occurs, the matter will be

fractured and re-arranged in obedience to the form-destroy

ing force.

   Viewed by the light of this principle, the fact that the
Earth an oblate spheroid does not seem to afford any sup
is
              it

                                            is
                                                             is
                                                                  a it
port to the hypothesis of original fluidity as commonly under

stood. We must consider that, in respect of its obedience to

the geodynamic laws, the Earth fluid now and must always

remain so; for the most tenacious substance with which we

are acquainted, when subjected to the same forces that are

acting upon the Earth's crust, would exceed the limit of self-

support determined by the above law, before                             attained

i.ooo.ooo.ooo^ °f tne Earth's bulk. [This an extreme over

statement, since assumes that the mutual gravitation of the

parts of this small mass would expose them to stress like

that to which they would be exposed were the mass placed

                       643

                                     APPENDICES
that a mass of the hardest matter would lose its self-sustain
ing power long before it approached the size of the Earth.]

   Reference to a table of the resistances of various sub
stances to a crushing force will render this manifest.

   London, January, 1847.

                                                  644

                                         APPENDIX K.

LETTER TO THE ATHENMUM CONCERNING THE
    MISSTATEMENTS OF THE REV. T. MOZLEY.

[/ am compelled to include among these appendices the
                                                 grave error rectified by
correspondence which follows.               The  " Reminiscences, chiefly
it is contained in Mr. Mosley's            work

of Oriel College," likely to be often referred to hereafter by
those interested, as friends or foes, in the Tractarian move
ment; and there will consequently be a perennial cause for

diffusion of Mr. Mosley's misstatements. Proof exists that
                                           done. In a notice of Mr. Mosley's
walroerakdyinmtihsechi"efQuhaasrteberleyn
                                           Review," his wrong allegation is

partially, if not wholly, accepted. Clearly, then, if in his

Iwork this wrong allegation has a permanent place, and do

                                                                        shall be
not give a permanent place to the disproof of         iIt,
                                                         I
liable hereafter to grave misrepresentations, and the origin

the Synthetic Philosophy will be misapprehended.                        have,
of
therefore, no alternative but to reproduce these letters.]
   I
                                      :The Rev. Thomas Mozley and Mr. Herbert Spencer.

In the " Reminiscences, chiefly of Oriel College," by the

Rev. Thomas Mozley, there occurs on p. 146, vol. the fol
lowing passage --                                a
   " had indulged from my boyhood in                                i,
                                                      Darwinian dream

of moral philosophy, derived in the first instance from one of
my early instructors. This was Mr. George Spencer, [honor

                                           645

                    APPENDICES

founded by Dr. Darwin,* and father of Mr. Herbert Spen
cer. My dream had a certain family resemblance to the
' System of Philosophy ' bearing that writer's name. There

was an important and saving difference between the two sys

tems, between that which never saw the light, and perished

before it was born, without even coming to wither like grass

on the house-tops, and that other imposing system which

occupies several yards of shelf in most public libraries. The

latter makes the world of life, as we see and take part in
it

       Ia

                       is
                              it
                                             a

                                                 a

                                                                               it
                                                                                                it,

                                                                                         it
                                                                                                        it,
the present outcome of continual outcoming from atoms,

lichens, and vegetables, bound by the necessities of existence

to mutual relations, up to or down to brutes, savages, ladies

and gentlemen, inheriting various opinions, maxims, and

superstitions. The brother and elder philosophy, for such

was, that    mine, saved itself from birth by its palpable

inconsistency, for  retained a Divine original and some
other incongruous elements. In particular, instead of rat

ing the patriarchal stage hardly above the brute, assigned

to that state of society heavenly source, and described as

rather model for English country gentlemen, that is, upon

the whole, and with certain reservations."

As find by inquiring of those who have read                                    this

passage leaves the impression that the doctrines set forth in
the " System of Synthetic Philosophy," as well as those which
Mr. Mozley entertained in his early days, were in some way

derived from my father. Were this true, the implication

would be that during the last five-and-twenty years, have
             it
                                   is

                                       I
                                              I

                                                   I
                                                          I
been allowing myself to be credited with ideas which are not

my own. And since this               entirely untrue,                          cannot be

expected to let pass unnoticed. If do, tacitly counte

nance an error, and tacitly admit an act by no means credit

able to me.

II   should be the last to under-estimate my indebtedness to

my father, for whom have great admiration, as will be seenIt
                    I
                                         I                                     sketch of

                                                                            a
when, hereafter, there comes to be published

* was more than a dozen years after Dr. Darwin's death in 1802
when my father became honorary secretary.  believe my father (who
was twelve years old when Dr. Darwin died) never saw him, and, so far
as know, knew nothing of his ideas.

                        646

                 LETTER TO THE ATHEN/EVM

him which I long ago prepared in rough draft. But this
indebtedness was general and not special -- an indebtedness
for habits of thought encouraged rather than for ideas com
municated. I distinctly trace to him an ingrained tendency
to inquire for causes --causes, I mean, of the physical class.
Though far from having himself abandoned supernatural-
ism, yet the bias towards naturalism was strong in him, and

was, I doubt not, communicated (though rather by example

than by precent) to others he taught, as it was to me. But
while admitting, and indeed asserting, that the tendency
towards naturalistic interpretation of things was fostered in

me by him, as probably also in Mr. Mozley, yet I am not

aware that any of those results of naturalistic interpretation
distinctive of my works are traceable to him.

   Were the general reader in the habit of criticising each
statement he meets, he might be expected to discover in the
paragraph quoted above from Mr. Mozley, reasons for scep
ticism. When, for example, he found my books described as
occupying several yards of library shelves, while in fact they
occupy less than 2 feet, he might be led to suspect that other
statements, made with like regard for effectiveness rather

than accuracy, are misleading. A re-perusal of the last part

of the paragraph might confirm his suspicion. Observing that,
along with the allegation of " family resemblance," the clos
ing sentence admits that the course of human affairs as con
ceived by Mr. Mozley was the reverse in direction to the

course alleged by me --observing that in this only respect in
which Mr. Mozley specifies his view, it is so fundamentally

anti-evolutionary as to be irreconcilable with the evolution
ary view--he might have further doubts raised. But the
general reader, not pausing to consider, mostly accepts with
out hesitation what a writer tells him.

   Even scientific readers --even readers familiar with the
contents of my books, cannot, I fear, be trusted so to test Mr.

Mozley's statement as to recognize its necessary erroneous-

                                                   647

                              APPENDICES

would have but to recall the cardinal ideas developed

throughout the series of volumes I have published to become

conscious that these ideas are necessarily of much later
origin than the period to which Mr. Mozley's account refers.
Though, in Rumford's day and before, an advance had been
made towards the doctrine of the correlation of heat and
motion, this doctrine had not become current; and no con

ception, even, had arisen of the more general doctrine of
the correlation and equivalence of the physical forces at
large. Still more recent was the rise and establishment of
the associated abstract doctrine commonly known as the
" conservation of energy." Further, Von Baer's discovery
that the changes undergone during development of each
organic body are always from the general to the special, was
not enunciated till some eight years after the time at which
Mr. Mozley was a pupil of my father, and was not heard of
in England until 20 years after. Now, since these three doc
trines are indispensable elements of the general theory of
evolution, (the last of them being that which set up in me
the course of thought leading to it,)* it is manifest that not
even a rude conception of such a theory could have been
framed at the date referred to in Mr. Mozley's account.
Even apart from this, one who compared my successive writ
ings would find clear proof that their cardinal ideas could
have had no such origin as Mr. Mozley's account seems to
imply. In the earliest of them --" Letters on the Proper
Sphere of Government "--published in 1842, and republished

* I have recently found that this statement is but partially true. In
the original  edition   of Social Statics, published in  1850, and on pp.
(in the last  edition,   pp. 263-6), will be found a      passage showing  451-3
                                                                            that,
alike in types
uniformity to   of animals    and    in  types of societies,  the progress is   from
                multiformity       from    structures made    up of like parts  hav
                               --

ing like functions, to structures made up of unlike parts having unlike
functions. Though neither the words uniformity and multiformity, nor
the words homogeneous and heterogeneous, are used, yet the contrasts
described are those expressed by these words. The effect of Von Baer's

generalization respecting the course of embryonic development, first met
with in 1852, was to accentuate and make more definite a thought already

existing.

                                         648

a                LETTER TO THE ATHENMUM
          it,
as a pamphlet in 1843, the only point of community with the
                 Igeneral doctrine of evolution is a belief in the modifiability

                                           itof human nature through adaptation to conditions (which I

                                                         I held as a corollary from the theory of Lamarck) and a con
sequent belief in human progression. In the second and
more important one, " Social Statics," published in 1850, the
same general ideas are to be seen, worked out more elabo
rately in their ethical and political consequences. Only in an
essay published in 1852, would the inquirer note, for the first
time, a passing reference to the increase of heterogeneity as
a trait of development, and a first recognition of this trait as
seen in other orders of phenomena than those displayed by
individual organisms. Onwards through essays published in
several following years, he would observe further
extensions in the alleged range of this law; until, in 1855,
in the " Principles of Psychology," it begins to take an im
portant position, joined with the additional law of integra
tion, afterwards to be similarly extended. Not until 1857,
in two essays then published, would he find a statement, rela
tively crude in form, of the Law of Evolution, set forth as
holding throughout all orders of phenomena, and, joined
with the statement of certain universal physical principles
which necessitate its universality. And only in 1861 would
he come to an expression of the law approximating in

definiteness to that final one reached in 1867. All which

facts the scientific reader who took the trouble to investigate
would see are conclusive against the implication contained in
Mr. Mozley's statement; since, were this implication true, my
early writings would have contained traces of the specific
doctrine set forth in the later ones. But, as have said, even

   reader of my books cannot be trusted to recall and consider
these facts, but will certainly in many cases, and probably in
most, passively accept the belief Mr. Mozley suggests.

   Seeing this, have felt requisite definitely to raise the
issue; and, for this purpose, have written to Mr. Mozley the

                                                  649

              APPENDICES

outline of the Doctrine of Evolution, which it was needful to

place before him that he might be in a position to answer

my question definitely. Perhaps I may be excused for

reproducing the letter in full, since ninety-nine out of a

hundred do not know what the Doctrine of Evolution, in its

:

                  is,
                                         it
wider sense,  but suppose                    to be simply another name

for the doctrine of the origin of species by natural selec
tion --

   " My dear Sir, -- The passages from three letters of my
father, sent herewith --one written in 1820, which was about

the date referred to in your account of him, one written some
thirteen years later, and the other twenty years later--will

prove to you how erroneous  the statement you have made
              I

                     is
with regard to his religious beliefs. Having in this case clear

proof of error, you will, think, be the better prepared to

recognize the probability of error in the statements which

you make concerning his philosophical ideas, and the ideas

which, under his influence, you in early life elaborated for

yourself.
   " The passage in which you refer to these, gives the im

pression that they were akin to those views which are devel

oped in the System of Synthetic Philosophy.' am anxious
:

   is
       a

               '

           I

                           '

                   I
                             I

                                                                          ;

                                                   it

                                                  It I

                                                                                            is
                                                                                                             aa
to ascertain in what the alleged kinship consists. Some

twelve years ago an American friend requested me, with

view to certain use which he named, to furnish him with

a succinct statement of the cardinal principles developed in

the successive works have published. The rough draft of

this statement have preserved and that you may be en

abled definitely to compare the propositions of that which
you have called 'the younger philosophy,' with that which

you have called the elder,' copy             out.  runs as fol

lows --

  "' 1. Throughout the Universe, in general and in detail,

there an unceasing distribution of matter and motion. 2.

This redistribution constitutes evolution where there

                            650

                  LETTER TO THE ATHENMUM

and constitutes dissolution where there is a predominant
absorption of motion and disintegration of matter. 3. Evo
lution is simple when the process of integration, or the

formation of a coherent aggregate, proceeds uncomplicated
by other processes. 4. Evolution is compound when, along
with this primary change from an incoherent to a coherent
state, there go on secondary changes due to differences in
the circumstances of the different parts of the aggreate. 5.
                                     constitute a transformation of the
These secondary changes             heterogeneous -- a transformation
homogeneous into the
which, like the first, is exhibited in the Universe as a whole
and in all (or nearly all) its details; in the aggregate of stars
and nebulae; in the planetary system; in the Earth as an
inorganic mass; in each organism, vegetal or animal (Von
Baer's law otherwise expressed) ; in the aggregate of organ
isms throughout geologic time; in the mind; in society; in
all products of social activity. 6. The process of integration,
acting locally as well as generally, combines with the process
of differentiation to render this change not simply from

homogeneity to heterogeneity, but from an indefinite homo
geneity to a definite heterogeneity ; and this trait of increas
ing definiteness, which accompanies the trait of increasing
7.                             like exhibited in the totality of things
                          is,  it,
heterogeneity,

and in all its divisions and subdivisions down to the minutest.

Along with this redistribution of the matter composing any

evolving aggregate, there goes on redistribution of the
                                    a
                                               a
retained motion of its components in relation to one an

other: this also becomes, step by step, more definitely hetero
                  In the absence of homogeneity that infinite
geneous.9. is                                                   is
              8.                                                   is it is
and absolute, that redistribution of which evolution one

phase,          inevitable. The causes which necessitate                     are
these -- The instability of the homogeneous, which                         con

sequent upon the different exposures of the different parts
of any limited aggregate to incident forces. The transforma
tions hence resulting are complicated by-- 10. The multiplica

tion of effects. Every mass and part of mass on which
                                    a                                        :a
                                                             a
force falls, subdivides and differentiates that force, which

thereupon proceeds to work variety of changes; and each

of these becomes the parent of similarly-multiplying changes

the multiplication of them becoming greater in proportion

as the aggregate becomes more heterogeneous. And these
two causes of increasing differentiations are furthered by--

                                    651

                                 APPENDICES

unlike units and to bring together like units-- so serving con
tinually to sharpen, or make definite, differentiations other
wise caused. 12. Equilibration is the final result of these
transformations which an evolving aggregate undergoes.
The changes go on until there is reached an equilibrium
between the forces which all parts of the aggregate are ex

posed to and the forces these parts oppose to them. Equi
libration may pass through a transition stage of balanced
motions (as in a planetary system) or of balanced functions
(as in a living body) on the way to ultimate equilibrium;
but the state of rest in inorganic bodies, or death in organic
bodies, is the necessary limit of the changes constituting
evolution. 13. Dissolution is the counter-change which
sooner or later every evolved aggregate undergoes. Remain
ing exposed to surrounding forces that are unequilibriated,
each aggregate is ever liable to be dissipated by the increase,
gradual or sudden, of its contained motion ; and its dissipa
tion, quickly undergone by bodies lately animate, and slowly
undergone by inanimate masses, remains to be undergone
at an indefinitely remote period by each planetary and stellar
mass, which since an indefinitely distant period in the past
has been slowly evolving: the cycle of its transformations
being thus completed. 14. This rhythm of evolution and
dissolution, completing itself during short periods in small
aggregates, and in the vast aggregates distributed through
space completing itself in periods which are immeasurable
by human thought, is, so far as we can see, universal and
eternal --each alternating phase of the process predominat
ing, now in this region of space and now in that, as local

conditions determine. 15. All these phenomena, from their

great features down to their minutest details, are necessary
results of the persistence of force, under its forms of matter
and motion. Given these as distributed through space, and
their quantities being unchangeable, either by increase or
decrease, there inevitably result the continuous redistributions
distinguishable as evolution and dissolution, as well as all
those special traits above enumerated. 16. That which per
sists, unchanging in quantity but ever changing in form,
under these sensible appearances which the Universe presents
to us, transcends human knowledge and conception -- is an
unknown and unknowable Power, which we are obliged to
recognize as without limit in space and without beginning or
end in time.'

                                                  652

LETTER TO THE ATHENAUM

   " I am not aware that my father entertained any of these
views, either definitely or vaguely. But if he did, or if under

his influence you reached views similar to these or any of

them, it will, I presume, be possible to indicate the resem
blances. Or if specific resemblances are not alleged, still

it will be possible to point out what were the ideas you

received from him which potentially involved conclusions

such as are above set forth.

  " I fear I am entailing some trouble upon you in asking an

answer to this question, but the importance of the matter

must be my apology.  I am, my dear sir, faithfully yours,
                                          " Herbert Spencer."

  In Mr. Mozley's reply, he stated that he had been obliged

already to send off his corrections for a second edition, adding
that, " as therefore nothing can be done now, you would not

care for any discussion." The result is that I remain without

any reply to my question. One passage, however, in Mr.

Mozley's letter, serves to give a widely different meaning to

his statement; and, having obtained his permission, I here
quote it as follows :--" You will observe that I have only a
vague idea of my own 'philosophy,' and I cannot pretend to an
accurate knowledge of yours. I spoke of a ' family like

ness.' But what is that ? There is a family likeness between

Cardinal Newman's view and his brother Frank's."

   Now, if the " family likeness " alleged is not greater than

that between the belief of a Roman Catholic and the belief of

a Rationalist who retains his theism, my chief objection is

removed; for, just as the views of the brothers Newman

have a certain kinship in virtue of the religious sentiment
common to them, so Mr. Mozley's early views and my own
have had the common trait of naturalistic interpretation --
partially carried out in the one and completely in the other :
a common trait, however, which would give Mr. Mozley's
early views a " family likeness " to other philosophies than

                     653

                          APPENDICES

Mr. Mozley's statement which I have to make, is that I do

not see how, even in this vague sense, a likeness can be
                                                               "
alleged  between    that  which  he names  and describes   as
                                                                  a
moral philosophy " and "a system of philosophy " of which

the greater part is concerned with the phenomena of Evolu
tion at large --inorganic, organic, and super-organic --as in

terpreted on physical principles, and of which only the clos

ing portion sets forth ethical conclusions as corollaries from

all the conclusions that have preceded.

   There remains only to answer the question -- How could

Mr. Mozley have been led to imagine a resemblance between

things so different? He has himself gone far towards fur

nishing an explanation.   In his introduction  (p. 1)      he admits,
or rather asserts, that                         very       suspicious
                          " reminiscences are
                          " the mental
matter   "     and  that                picture of events  long passed

            ;

by, and seen through an increasing breadth of many-tinted

haze, is liable to be warped and coloured by more recent

remembrances, and by impressions received from other quar

ters." He adds sundry illustrations of the extreme untrust-

worthiness of memory concerning the remote past ; and in

Chapter LXXXIII he characterises Denison's Reminiscences

of Oriel College as " a jumble of inaccuracies, absurdities,

and apparent forgets." Moreover he indicates (p. 4) a special
cause of distortion ; saying of those " whose memory is sub
ordinate to imagination and passion," that " they remember

too easily, too quickly, and too much as they please." Now,

as is implied by his religious ideas and ecclesiastical leanings,

and as is also shown by a passage in which he refers to the
scientific school with manifest aversion, Mr. Mozley is

biassed towards an interpretation which tends to discredit

this school, or a part of it; and obviously, to fancy a resem

blance between scientific views now current, and those which
he describes as a " dream " of his youth, which disappeared

with his manhood, is not unsatisfactory to him. On looking
through the " many-tinted haze " of sixty years at what he

                                 654

           LETTER TO THE ATHEN/EUM

unconsciously " warped and coloured "                           it it,  and imagined in  it

Iaresemblance which, as have shown,                                     could not possibly
                            I

have had.

      will only add that serious injustice apt to be done by
                                                                is

publication of reminiscences which concern others than the

writer of them. Widely diffused as Mr. Mozley's interest
                                                is

ing work, his statement will be read and accepted by thou

sands who will never see this rectification.

                                                                Herbert Spencer.

  The simplest and most conclusive disproof of Mr. Mozley's

statement, however,         furnished by letter which has since
                            is is
                                               a

                                                             a
come to light, and now in my possession, written by my

father in January, 1860, to favourite pupil of his, Mrs.

(now Lady) White Cooper. The following passage from this

letter shows that, so far from regarding my views as derived

from him, he speaks of them in contrast with his own, and

simply regards them with sympathetic tolerance.

  " quite agree with you that the feelings induced by the
  I

                        ?'

                   It
perusal of Herbert's essay entitled What Knowledge of
                                                '                       is

                                                           I
most Worth are somewhat depressing. Still don't regret

reading the essay, for such depression does not of necessity

tend to harm.               may teach us humility and he that hum-
                                                                ;
bleth himself shall be exalted --exalted in his faith. Even

the"  just shall live by faith.                 mind,                   appears to me that
      From what see of my son's                                 it
is                                                                    is
            it
                  is                                                          is
                                                                                       is
                 aI
                                                                                              it
                                     a is
the laws of nature are to him what revealed religion to us,

and that any wilful infraction of those laws to him as
much a sin as to us disbelief in what revealed. And

so long as he makes holy use of his present knowledge,
  my privilege to believe that he will be led into all truth."

  Thus     manifest that certain naturalistic proclivities of

thought my father displayed, were, by Mr. Mozley, con

founded with definite system of philosophy arrived at in

pursuance of such naturalistic proclivities.

                                           655


AN

AUTOBIOGRAPHY

                               A? - / (f C 3

                                          BY

       HERBERT SPENCER

                             ILLUSTRATED

                        IN TWO VOLUMES

                         VOL. II

                     NEW YORK
     D. APPLETON AND COMPANY

                                    1904

                                 Copyright, 1904, by
                   D. APPLETON AND COMPANY

Published April, mi

           CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

           PART VII.

CHAPTER    1856-1860.

  XXX.     A System of Philosophy  Projected    3
 XXXI.                                        32
XXXII.     Plans for Executing it             55

           A Plan Fixed Upon

           PART VIII.

           1860-1867.

  XXXIII.  Writing First Principles  .           f>7
  XXXIV.                             .
           An Autumn's Relaxations   .          88
   XXXV.   A Volume of the Biology
  XXXVI.   A Digression                         98
 XXXVII.                                      123
XXXVIII.   Another Volume of the Biology      131
  XXXIX.   Impending Cessation                154
                                              162
           Sad Events

            CONTENTS

            PART IX.

 CHAPTER                          1867-1874.     PAGE

     XL.    Re-casting First Principles .        179
   XLI.                                          200
  XLII.     An Imprudence and its Consequences   208
            A Tour in Italy .
XLIII.      Developing the Psychology            232
            Finishing the Psychology             260
 XL1V.      An Extra Book
                                                 283
  XLV.      Some Minor Incidents                 300
 XLVI.      The Descriptive Sociology
XLVII.                                           3«>5

            PART X.

XLVIII.                           1874-1879.                   321
  XLIX.                                       . . 324
            A Retrospective Glance .          - - 354
        L.  Vol. I. of the Sociology .        · - 369
            A Series of Articles .            - - 382
       LI.  The Data of Ethics .
     LII.   Ceremonial Institutions .

            PART XL

LIII.                             1879-1889.     393
LIV.                                             410
            Up the Nile                          416
 LV.        Ending of the Descriptive Sociology  443
LVI.
            Political Institutions . . . .

            A Grievous Mistake

                                             vi

             CONTENTS

    CHAPTBR  Coming Events                     PACE
             A Visit to America
 LVII.       Conclusion                        452
LVIII.                                         457
                                               482
  LIX.

                       PART XII.               489

LX. Reflections Written Four Years Later

                              APPENDICES.      553
                                               557
      A Note Concerning the Life and Letters   565
            of T. H. Huxley
                                               573
A. Programme of the Synthetic Philosophy .     576

....B. Letter to Mr. G. H. Lewes               580
                                               591
C. Documents Concerning the Cessation of       594
            the Issue of the Philosophy . . .  598
                                               605
D. A New Invalid-Bed
E. English Feeling about the American

            Civil War
F. A New Fishing-Rod Joint

....G. Obituary Notice of J. S. Mill

H. Letter of Prof. Youmans

      Index

             VII


              PART VII.

  XXX. A System of Philosophy Projected.
 XXXI. Plans for Executing It.
XXXII. A Plan Fixed Upon.

         41


                      CHAPTER XXX.

         A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED.

                    1857--8. Mt. 37--38.

  My search for a fit place of abode when I returned to

town, ended satisfactorily. Malvern House, otherwise 13,

Loudoun Road, St. John's Wood, in which I settled my

self, is a good house seated in the midst of a garden walled
round. The occupier, who carried on a wholesale busi

ness in the city, and who, as I afterward learnt, feared to

fall into a state of chronic melancholy, as his father had
done before him, had hit on a prophylactic -- surrounding
himself with a lively circle. In addition to the family,
consisting of host and hostess, three daughters and a son,
ranging from seven up to about twenty, and a governess,
there were as boarders an old retired government official

(a commissioner of some kind I think he had been)
lively notwithstanding his years--eighty and a wit; a

" grass-widow," pleasant to look upon but without an
idea in her head, whose husband was in India; and her
friend, a vain old lady who played the part of duenna.

    Beyond the fitness of the circle and the salubrity of the
locality, which is on the backbone of St. John's Wood, the
place had the advantage that it was within two
minutes' walk of No. 1, Waverley Place, then occupied by
Huxley. We had a standing engagement for Sunday
afternoons : a walk of a few miles into the country along

                                                            3

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

routine. Many pleasant talks and useful discussions there

were between us on those occasions during the succeeding

year. I remember that once when, as it would seem,

society and human life as at present existing had been

topics of somewhat pessimistic comment, I said (not
however doing justice to my thought) -- " Yes, one can

not hope for much more than to make one's mark and

die." Whereupon Huxley, with greater self-abnegation,
responded -- " Never mind about the mark : it is enough

if one can give a push."

   Reference to these walks and talks reminds me of an

incident connected with one of them. Shortly after I had

established myself in Loudoun Road, Buckle called. It
was on a Sunday afternoon. Our conversation had not
gone far when I intimated that the hour had come for

the usual excursion ; and, on my answering his inquiry

who Huxley was (for then he was not widely known),
Buckle agreed to go with me to be introduced. He went
with us a short distance up the Finchley Road ; but,

saying that he had an engagement, presently turned back.

We looked after him as he walked away ; and Huxley,

struck by his feeble, undecided gait, remarked -- " Ah, I
see the kind of man. He is top-heavy." I have never
done more than dip into The History of Civilization in
England; but I suspect that the analogy suggested was

not without truth. Buckle had taken in a much larger

quantity of matter than he could organize ; and he stag

gered under the mass of it.

   November was occupied chiefly in seeing through the
press the volume of Essays: Scientific, Political, and
Speculative; but its last days, joined with the first part

4

^t. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

letter to my father dated 28th November, contains the

paragraph --
   " I have undertaken to write a short article on this Bank

ing crisis-- perhaps under the title of the bunglings of State-

banking--in which I propose showing the evils of meddling
and the superiorities of an unrestricted system. It is for the

next Westminster."

This essay, which appeared under the title of " State
Tamperings with Money and Banks," displayed once
more my antagonism to over-legislation. It is significant,
too, as showing in another direction, an abiding faith in
the self-regulation of internal social activities.

   An essay on such a subject seems a very unlikely place
in which to meet with a biological doctrine ; and yet one
cropped up. Among reasons given for reprobating the
policy of guarding imprudent people against the dangers
of reckless banking, one was that such a policy interferes
with that normal process which brings benefit to the
sagacious and disaster to the stupid. " The ultimate re
sult of shielding men from the effects of folly, is to fill
the world with fools," was a belief expressed. This was
a tacit assertion, recalling like assertions previously
made, that the survival of the fittest operates beneficially
in society. It appears that in the treatment of every

topic, however seemingly remote from philosophy, I

found occasion for falling back on some ultimate prin
ciple in the natural order.

  But now I come to an event of much moment -- an

event which initiated a long series of changes and
determined my subsequent career.

  Already I have, when speaking of each essay or book

                                                            5

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

stood related to the general doctrine elaborated in after

years. Here, to exhibit more clearly the attitude of mind
and stage of thought which had been reached, it will be

well briefly to recapitulate in immediate succession the

implied steps of mental development.

   In the narrative of my boyhood I pointed out that I

early became possessed by the idea of causation. My
father's frequent questions -- " Can you tell me the cause
of this ?" or-- " I wonder what is the cause of that," pre

sented to me now one thing and now another, as due to

some identifiable agency, usually physical. Though his
religious views prevented him from denying the miracu

lous, yet so frequently did there recur the interpretation
of things as natural, and so little reference did he make

to the supernatural, that there grew up in me a tacit
belief that whatever occurred had its assignable cause of

a comprehensible kind. Such notions as uniformity of

law and an established order, were of course not then

entertained ; but the kind of thinking into which I had

been led, and which was in part natural to me, prepared
the way for acceptance of such notions in due time. How

deep-seated had become the implied kind of conscious

ness, was shown a little later by the incident I narrated

as occurring at Hinton when Arnott's Physics was being

read aloud ; and when I called in question the conception
of vis inertia there set forth, which, as I dimly perceived,
was irreconcilable with that conception of causation I

had come to entertain. The same mental proclivity dis

played itself during the later years of my youth in the

discussions continually entered upon. Very rarely if ever
did I cite an authority for any opinion expressed ; but

always the course taken was that of seeking to justify

6

&*. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

bilities. Doubtless my intellectual leaning towards belief
in natural causation everywhere operating, and my conse
quent tendency to disbelieve alleged miracles, had much
to do with my gradual relinquishment of the current

creed and its associated story of creation -- a relinquish
ment which went on insensibly during early manhood.

Doubtless, too, a belief in evolution at large was then
latent ; since, little as the fact is recognized, anyone who,
abandoning the supernaturalism of theology, accepts in
full the naturalism of science, tacitly asserts that all
things as they now exist have been evolved. The doc
trine of the universality of natural causation, has for
its inevitable corollary the doctrine that the Universe and
all things in it have reached their present forms through

successive stages physically necessitated. No such corol

lary, however, had at that time made itself manifest to

me; and I cannot recall any definite belief then enter

tained about the origin of the Universe or the origin of
living things. The first pronounced convictions on these

matters were, as I have said, due to the reading of
Lyell's Principles of Geology when I was twenty: his

arguments against Lamarck producing in me a partial
acceptance of Lamarck's view.

   Two years after, in The Proper Sphere of Government,

there was shown an unhesitating belief that the phe
nomena of both individual life and social life, conform to
law ; and there was insistence on the progressive adapta
tion of constitution to conditions : implying the influ
ence of the development hypothesis previously accepted.

Eight years later increased consistency and definiteness
were given to these views in Social Statics. Though, as
shown in the chapter on " The Divine Idea," positive

                                                     7

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

were involved; yet, practically, the supernaturalism was

almost hidden behind the naturalism. Everything was
was referred to the unvarying course of causation, no less
uniform in the spheres of life and mind than in the
sphere of inanimate existence. Continuous adaptation
was insisted on as holding of all organisms, and of
mental faculties as well as bodily. For this adaptation,
the first cause assigned was the increase or decrease of
structure consequent on increase or decrease of function ;
and the second cause assigned was the killing
off, or dying out, of individuals least adapted to the re
quirements of their lives. The ideally moral state was
identified with complete adjustment of constitution to
conditions; and the fundamental requirement, alike

ethical and political, was represented as being the rigor
ous maintenance of the conditions to harmonious social
co-operation ; with the certainty that human nature will
gradually be moulded to fit them. The dependence of
institutions upon individual character was dwelt on ; the
reciprocal influences of the two emphasized ; and the ad
justment of moral ideas to the social state illustrated.

A physiological view of social actions was taken ; on

sundry occasions the expression " social organism " was
used; the aggregation of citizens forming a nation was
compared with the aggregation of cells forming a living
body ; the progress from a whole made up of like parts
which have but little mutual dependence, to a whole
made up of unlike parts which are mutually dependent
in a high degree, was shown to be a progress common to
individual organisms and social organisms. So that the
conception of progress subsequently to be presented in a

more generalized form, was evidently foreshadowed.

8

iEt- 37-38l a SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

tacit only ; but soon after the publication of Social Statics
it was avowed : the essay on the " Development Hy
pothesis," published in March, 1852, being a profession

of faith. Immediately after, in " A Theory of Popula
tion," &c, came an argument which, dealing with only
one aspect of evolution --the decrease of fertility that
accompanies increase of development -- nevertheless prac

tically assumed the rest. Assigning for this inverse rela
tion necessary physical causes, it also assigned to
necessary physical causes, the anticipated increase of
mental development and decrease of fertility pointed out
as likely to occur in the human race under that growing
competition entailed by pressure of population. Treating
though it did of a political question, the essay on " Over- '
legislation," not long afterwards published, betrayed the
same general mode of thinking. It assumed that social
arrangements and institutions are products of natural
causes, and that they have a normal order of growth.

   An additional element of thought of great importance
now came into play. When looking through the edition
of Carpenter's Principles of Physiology published in 1851,
for the purpose of writing a notice of it in the West

minster Review, I became acquainted with von Baer's

statement that the development of every organism is a
change from homogeneity to heterogeneity. The sub
stance of the thought was not new to me, though its form
was. As above shown, in Social Statics, citing facts in

illustration from Professors Owen and Rymer Jones, I

had emphasized the truth that in ascending grades of
organization, " we find a gradual diminution in the num
ber of like parts, and a multiplication of unlike ones. In
the one extreme there are but few functions, and many

                                                    9

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY           [1857-8

many functions, and few similar agents to each function."
And there is also emphasized the truth that " just this

same increasing  subdivision of functions   takes place in
the development  of society "-- that " the  earliest social

organizations consist almost wholly of repetitions of one

element ;" while, with social progress there goes multi
plication of " distinct classes " and " special occupations."

But in the first place, the conception thus reached had not

a sufficiently consolidated form to make it an efficient

factor in further thought ; and in the second place,

involving as it did the idea of function along with the

idea of structure, it was limited to organic phenomena.
It was otherwise with the more generalized expression of

von Baer. Besides being brief it was not necessarily

limited to the organic world ; though it was by him

recognized only as the law of evolution of each individual

organism. Added to my stock of general ideas, this idea

did not long lie dormant. It was soon extended to cer
tain phenomena of the super-organic class. At the close

of the essay on " The Philosophy of Style," published in

October, 1852, it made an unobtrusive first appearance as

supplying a measure of superiority in style. Change from

homogeneity to heterogeneity, began to be recognized as

that change in which progress other than organic, con

sists. But this mode of expressing the idea did not at

once replace the one used in Social Statics. The doctrine
set forth in the essay on " Manners and Fashion," pub
lished in April, 1854, that the ceremonial, political, and
ecclesiastical controls, are divergent forms of one original

control, again exhibits in its original shape the conception

that advance from lower to higher is characterized by

                 10

.<Et- 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

become with me, is curiously shown in an essay on " The
Universal Postulate," published in the Westminster
Review for October, 1853. Irrelevant though the hy
pothesis seems to a discussion concerning the test of
truth ; yet it came out in the expressed belief that funda
mental intuitions of which the negations are inconceiv
able, are products of organized and inherited effects of
experiences: evidently the germ of an evolutionary psy

chology.

Further extensions in the same fields, accompanied by

increased definiteness and the sudden appearance of cer

tain other cardinal ideas of like generality, occurred in
                                                         1854, on " The
the two   oesfsaSycsienpcuebli"shaendd  at  midsummer,
Genesis                                                 Education." A
                                        "   The Art of

leading conception set forth in the first of these essays,

was that the sciences neither arise in serial order nor can

be arranged in serial order, but that their relations are

those of divergence and re-divergence: increasing heter

ogeneity in the body of science being an implication.

Moreover it was shown that as the diverging branches of

science inosculate more and more, there is an advancing

integration keeping pace with the advancing differentia

tion. And it was also pointed out that along with

growing heterogeneity there is growing                  definiteness.
There were kindred ideas in " The Art of                Education."

It was contended that as the course of mental develop

ment is from the simple to the complex, and from the

indefinite to the definite, educational methods must be

adjusted to this course of development.

   A large step was next made. The belief set forth in
the early essay on " The Development Hypothesis," im

plied that not only had bodily organization been naturally

                                        11

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

" The Genesis of Science " I had been led to trace the

growth of definite reasoning, and the gradual formation

of cardinal scientific ideas, as resulting from the accumu

lating experiences of mankind. Hence arose the thought
of writing a Principles of Psychology, tracing out the

genesis of mind in all its forms, sub-human and human,

as produced by the organized and inherited effects of
mental actions. In the survey of so relatively wide a field

of phenomena, there of course occurred opportunities for

further development of the conceptions already enter
tained; and further development took place. An early-

impressed belief in the increase of faculty by exercise in

the individual, and the subsequently accepted idea of adap

tation as a universal principle of bodily life, now took,

when contemplating the phenomena of mind, an appro

priately modified form. Progressive adaptation became

increasing adjustment of inner subjective relations to
outer objective relations -- increasing correspondence be

tween the two. Successive chapters treat of the corre
spondence as " direct and homogeneous," as " direct but
heterogeneous," as " increasing in speciality," as " in
creasing in complexity," and also of " the integration of

correspondences."

   Quite naturally then, on thus recognizing throughout a
further vast field of phenomena the increase of hetero

geneity, of speciality, of integration, previously recog

nized as traits of progress in various minor groups of
phenomena, there was suggested the question -- Are not

these the traits of progress of all kinds? And it needed

but to ask the question to find an affirmative answer.

Brief inspection made it manifest that the law held in the
inorganic world, as in the organic and super-organic.

                   12

^t. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

which should set forth the universal presence of these

traits --or rather, the first of them ; for my mind was at

the time so pre-occupied with the thought of increasing
heterogeneity as a universal trait, that no space seems to
have been left for recognition of the truth that increasing
integration and increasing definiteness were also uni
versal traits. There immediately occurred a further sig
nificant advance. After recognition of the truth that
increasing heterogeneity is universal, there arose the
question -- Why is it universal? And a transition from
the inductive stage to the deductive stage was shown in

the answer --the transformation results from the unceas

ing multiplication of effects. When, shortly after, there
came the perception that the condition of homogeneity
is an unstable condition, yet another step towards the
completely deductive stage was made. And here it may be
remarked that with this change from the empirical to the
rational, the theorem passed into the region of physical

science. It became now a question of causes and effects
reduced to their simple forms -- a question of molar and
molecular forces and energies --a question of the never-

ending re-distribution of matter and motion considered
under its most general aspects. Thus it is clear that
something like a consolidated system of thought was
nearly reached.

   On glancing over these stages it indeed, observable
that the advance towards complete conception of evolu

tion was itself process of evolution. At first there was

simply an unshaped belief in the development of living
things including, in vague way, social development.
The extension of von Baer's formula expressing the
development of each organism, first to one and then to

                                                           13
;

              a
                              a

                                    a
                                                         is,

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

parts of a whole, exemplified the process of integration.
With advancing integration there went that advancing
heterogeneity implied by inclusion of the several classes
of inorganic phenomena and the several classes of super-
organic phenomena in the same category with organic
phenomena. And then the indefinite idea of progress
passed into the definite idea of evolution, when there was
recognized the essential nature of the change, as a physi
cally-determined transformation conforming to ultimate
laws of force. Not until setting down as above the suc

cessive stages of thought, was I myself aware how

naturally each stage had prepared the way for the next,

and how each additional conclusion increased the mental
proclivity towards further conclusions lying in the same

direction. It now seems that there was an almost in
evitable transition to that coherent body of beliefs which

soon took place.

   What initiated the unification? No positive answer is
furnished by my memory ; but there is an answer which,
on reviewing the circumstances, may be considered as

almost certainly the true one.

  As above narrated, I had recently been collecting

together, revising, and publishing, a number of essays.
The transaction had entailed two readings. There was
the preparation of them for the press ; and there was the
correction of the proofs as they passed through the press.
Hitherto the various evolutionary ideas which, during the
preceding six years had been from time to time expressed
in these essays, had been lying apart in my thoughts ; but
now they were brought together and twice over contem
plated in immediate succession. Obviously this process

i4

^t. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

unobserved, and fitted, therefore, to produce consolida
tion.

   With this special cause there probably co-operated a
more general cause. The time was one at which certain
all-embracing scientific truths of a simple order, were
being revealed. Years before had been published the
work of Sir William Grove on The Correlation of Physical
Forces; and now the scientific world was becoming every
where possessed by the general doctrine of the " Con
servation of Force," as it was then called. When writing
the Principles of Psychology three years previously, and
proposing (in the division referred to in the preface as
then withheld, but which was added in the second edi
tion) to interpret nervous phenomena as resulting from
discharges along lines of least resistance, my tendency to
seek for ultimate physical principles as keys to complex
phenomena, had shown itself. Apt thus to look at things,
and prepared therefore to be especially receptive of
such truths as that the various kinds of force are but
different forms of one force, and that this one force can
in no case be either increased or decreased, but only

transformed ; it is manifest that I was ready to have the

several general conceptions above described, still further
unified by affiliation on these ultimate physical principles.
There naturally arose the perception that the instability
of the homogeneous and the multiplication of effects,
must be derivative laws ; and that the laws from which
they are derived must be those ultimate laws of force
similarly traceable throughout all orders of existences.
There came the thought that the concrete sciences at
large should have their various classes of facts presented
in subordination to these universal principles, proximate

                                                           15

        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                  [1857-5

psychologic, and sociologic groups of phenomena, form a
connected aggregate of phenomena : the successive parts
having arisen one out of another by insensible grada
tions, and admitting only of conventional separations.
Clearly, too, they are unified by exhibiting in common the
law of transformation and the causes of transformation.
And clearly, therefore, they should be arranged into a
coherent body of doctrine, held together by the funda

mental kinships.

  Though naturally I cannot say that these were the

ideas which actually occurred, and that this was their

order; yet that some such ideas occurred in some such

order, is proved by the fact that I shortly sketched out a
scheme of the kind indicated. Evidently I felt at the time
that I had made an important step ; for this rough draft,

then drawn up as follows, is dated.

Vol. I.                         6 January, 1858.
Part I. The Unknowable.

Chap. 1. Truth generally lies in the co-ordination of

        antagonistic opinions.
-- 2. Failure of Theological Hypotheses.
--
--  3.  Limitations and Insufficiency of Science.
    4.  Reconciliation of Theology and Science lies

        in the recognition of an Omnipresent

        Activity.

Part II. The Laws of the Unknowable.

            Chap. 1. Though the Omnipresent Activity is un
                                 knowable, experience proves its laws to
                                 be uniform and ascertainable (illustrated
                                 by the law of all Progress).

               -- 2. The first law -- Instability of the homo

                         16

-ST. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

Chap. 4. The third law -- Every cause produces more

        than one effect.
--           fourth law --The correlation
--  5.  The  fifth law --The conservation                   of forces.
    6.  The                                                 of forces

--  7.       (force  lianwd--estTrhuectiEbqleu)i.libration  of Forces
        The sixth

--  8.        (tendency       to ultimate equilibrium).
        These, being          the laws of all force what

        ever, underlie all phenomena whatever.

Part III. Astronomic Evolution.

Chap. 1. The Nebular Hypothesis.
-- 2.        Do. Do. as applying
                                                            to
              the Universe.                                 as
-- 3. The Equilibration of Light and Heat

              well as Mechanical force.

Part IV. Geologic Evolution.

        Physical Genesis of the Earth.

        Chemical Do.             Do.

        Vol. II. THE PRINCIPLES OF BIOLOGY.
Part I. Life in General.

Part II. Evolution of Life in General (the Development

                 Hypothesis).

Part III. Evolution of Individual Organisms.

Part IV. Morphology (Law of Organic Symmetry).
Part V. Law of Multiplication (Theory of Population).

45 17

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1857-8

Vol. III. THE PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY

                             (objective).

Part I. Mental Dynamics                The unwritten part, in which
                                       is to be shown how the gen
                                       esis of Intelligence conforms
                                       to the laws of force, and

                                       more particularly the law
                                       that force follows the line of

                                       least resistance.

Part II. General Synthesis

                        (as written).

Part III. Special Synthesis

(as written).

    Vol. IV. THE PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY

                                  (subjective).

Part IV. Special Analysis

                        (as written).

Part V. General Analysis

                        (as written).

Vol. V. THE PRINCIPLES OF SOCIOLOGY.

      (Divided into several parts, showing how the
 growth, structure, and actions of societies are deter
 mined by the laws of force laid down--how the gen
  eral force is sensation or desire which is an actual
  force expending itself in an equivalent of muscular
 contractions or labour--how it follows the line of least
 resistance --how all phenomena of production and ex-
  change result from this force following the line of least
 resistance --how all the differentiations proceed in con
 formity with this and the other laws of force--how
  social progress is an approximation to a state of ulti
 mate equilibrium in virtue of the equilibrium of forces
 --and how finally this state of equilibrium is the
 perfect or moral state.)

                                          18

<£t. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

      Vol. VI. THE PRINCIPLES OF RECTITUDE

                                   (personal).
              (Developing in detail the ultimate state of adapta
         tion of constitution to conditions-- the equilibration of
          desires and duties, wants and satisfactions, which
          civilization is producing.)

      Vol. VII. THE PRINCIPLES OF RECTITUDE
                                  (social).

Part I. Social Statics.

Part II. Negative   Beneficence.       Developing in detail  the
Part III. Positive  Beneficence.      . moral equilibration
                                                              of
                                       the social state.

Vol. VIII. ESSAYS.

Vol. IX. ESSAYS.
Vol. X. ESSAYS.

This is reproduced verbatim from the original draft,

which had been left without any corrections. Evidently

there is much crudity in the portions which are detailed ;

and the other portions, merely indicated, are not thought

out. But it is remarkable that the scheme as at first thus

suddenly conceived, should have resembled as much as it

does the scheme eventually executed. Three days after

the date of this sketch I wrote home as follows :--

                                      "       Loudoun  Road

                                          13

My dear Father                                         9 Jany '58.

I sent the Westminster yesterday. When done with

circulate it in the usual order.

Within the last ten days my ideas on various matters have

suddenly crystallized into a complete whole. Many things

which were before lying separate have fallen into their places

                                  19

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

opment from the simplest general principles. I send you a
brief sketch which will give you some idea of it. In process
of time I hope gradually to develop the system here sketched

out.

  I am very well. After having had a rest I am just beginning

the article for the British Quarterly.

  I wish you had some good news to give me about the
Bridgegate property. My mother's cold is by this time I

hope quite well.

                                                                Affectionately

                                                                           H. S."

  A verification of date is yielded by a subsequent letter

from my father. Finding me but a poor correspondent

and apt to overlook the questions he asked, he had fallen
into the habit of writing out these questions as they oc

curred to him from time to time on separate half-sheets
of note-paper : each question having beneath it a space to

contain my answer. Two such separate half-sheets, both

dated January 31, 1858, contain these questions and
answers.

   How do you reconcile your omnipresent activity with the
future equilibrium you speak of?

   An equilibrium like that of the solar system consists with
activity.

   Shall you be able to prove that perfect homogeneity is un
stable ?

   Absolute homogeneity extending throughout infinity would
be stable.

   Can you tell me whether the future work alluded to in
your Social Statics embraces the Principles of Sociology

20

iEt- 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

in with Social Statics Negative Beneficence and Positive
Beneficence and retain a moderate size. Shall you take part
of the matter of Social Statics from it and put to other
chapters ?

   Yes.
    Did you wish me to keep these crystallised ideas of yours
to myself or do you wish me to divulge them?
    Keep them to yourself.

   Thus then it is clear that the first days of 1858 saw
the inception of the undertaking to which the rest of my
life was to be devoted.

   An engagement had been made in November, 1857,
to write an article for the April number of the British
Quarterly on the moral discipline of children; and the
writing of this essay (which forms one of the chapters
in the little volume on Education) occupied me during

the early part of 1858.
   Concerned with the process of mental unfolding, the

subject was certain to be treated by me from the point
of view now reached. Consciously or unconsciously
the theory of evolution furnished guidance. One of the
initial conceptions is that since inherited constitution
must ever be the chief factor in determining character,
it is absurd to suppose that any system of moral disci
pline can produce an ideal character, or anything more
than some moderate advance towards it. " The guiding
principle of moral education " especially insisted on, is
that there shall habitually be experienced the natural
reaction consequent on each action. As the ascent
through lower forms of life has been effected by the
discipline of enjoying the pleasures and suffering the

                                                          21

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

further ascent above the form of life now reached must
be thus effected. One of the corollaries drawn is that
as throughout our converse with surrounding Nature,
most of our activities are unrestrained, but those which
bring penalties continue to bring penalties whenever
they are repeated -- Nature accepting no excuses ; so,
with educational discipline, while there should be no
needless restraints, the needful restraints should be un
varying and irresistible.

   These leading ideas sufficiently indicate the way in
which moral education was conceived as simply a final
part of the process by which the emotional nature has
been evolved -- a process which in the future is to follow

the same lines as in the past.

   Life in those days was passing not unpleasantly.

Some incidents of the time I give in extracts from let

ters. The first is from one to my mother dated Febru

ary 19.

   " I am going on very well-- sleeping better for the last ten

days, and writing all morning without thinking about my

head. Indeed I have rarely any sensation now. The good

living and the lively society here evidently suit me well.

  I dined lately at Sir John Trelawney's, in company with

Mr. Grote the historian of Greece, and Mr. Buckle, the new

historian, whom I knew previously. Mr. Grote I wanted to

know. He was very civil and hoped we should meet again.

   I saw John Mill lately. He was complimentary about the

essays; telling me he had read all those he had not before

seen and had re-read the others."

Here is part of a letter to my father dated March 1 :--

   " The enclosed note is from the Editor of the Quarterly

Review. The article which I am to write is on ' Physical

22

£*- 37-38J A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

of under-feeding, under-clothing, and over-education.  I

have not written for the Quarterly before, and as their pay

is the same as the Edinburgh (£16 per sheet) I am glad to

make the connexion."

In a letter to him dated March 22nd occurs the pas
sage :--

   " I am day by day developing further the scheme of which
I gave you a sketch. Another general law of force has oc
curred to me since I saw you, viz. -- the universality of

rhythm; which is a necessary consequence of the antagonism
of opposing forces. This holds equally in the undulations of

the etherial medium, and the actions and reactions of social

life."

   A later note runs :-- " I dined with Buckle the other
day. Among other guests were Mr. Grote, Sir Henry
Holland, Monckton Milnes, m.p." [afterwards Lord

Houghton].

   The essay on physical training above referred to as
having been written for the Quarterly Reviciv was not
accepted by the editor: at that time the Rev. Mr. Elwin.

Possibly its conceptions, anti-ascetic as they were, did
not harmonize either with his theological system or with
the ideas which public school-life had fostered in him.
It was not until April, 1859, that this essay, now form
ing the fourth chapter of the little book on Education,
was published in the British Quarterly Review.

   Though it makes no reference to the doctrine of evolu
tion, its ideas are congruous with the doctrine in so far

       the method of nature emphasized as that which
should be kept in view when deciding on methods of
physical training. There an implied recognition of
that

                                                is is

                      23

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                        [1857-8

throughout the animal-world at large; namely that in

proportion as growth and organization are incomplete,

much must be given and little demanded. It is argued

that as with inferior creatures, early life is distinguished

by the continual receipt of benefits and absence of la

bours ; so with ourselves, early life, instead of being
made often as laborious as adult life, should be so car

ried on as to favour more the development of the body,

and to postpone later such development of the mind as
requires any great and continuous effort.* In harmony

with this view, it is contended that for bodily welfare the

sensations are the most trustworthy guides ; and that

the mischiefs of bad physical management result from

disregard of them. Though it is not so alleged in the

essay, this guiding principle, too, is a corollary from a

general biological truth --the truth that among all lower

forms of life, uncontrolled by commands, tradi

tions, or creeds, there has been no other prompter to

right physical actions than obedience to the sensations :

the continual killing off of those in which the two were

not rightly adjusted to the needs, having maintained

and improved the adjustment. Whence it follows that,

inheriting as we do adjustments established during the

progress through lower forms of life, our sensations are

on the whole trustworthy guides to bodily welfare, f
* For elucidations see Principles of Sociology, \ 322.
f The reader will find explanations in the Principles of Psychology,
\\§ 124, and in the Data of Ethics,  33 --6. Study of the passages there

found will prevent him from identifying sensations and emotions. Care

less use of words, and consequent careless thinking, leads nine people

out of ten to confuse together all the feelings in such wise that one who

says that sensations are trustworthy guides to bodily welfare, is habitu

ally represented as saying that we ought in all cases to follow the

promptings of our feelings : the truth being that we have often other

24

<Et. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

   So that though this essay was not conspicuously evo
lutionary in its doctrines, yet its doctrines were evolu
tionary in their unavowed origin.

  A few years before this time, the great telescope of

Lord Rosse had resolved into stars, sundry nebulae
which were previously regarded as irresolvable. There
was drawn the inference that all nebulae, so called, con
sist of stars; and that their nebulous appearance is
solely the result of extreme remoteness. This inference

was at that time generally accepted among astrono
mers.

   As the doctrine of evolution in its widest sense sets
out with that state of matter and motion implied by the
nebular hypothesis, it naturally happened that this tacit
denial of the nebular hypothesis did not leave me un

moved. I saw reasons for questioning the legitimacy of

the inferences above described, and was prompted to
look more nearly into the matter. Finding abundant

grounds for dissent, I set them forth in an article for the

Westminster, entitled " Recent Astronomy and the
Nebular Hypothesis."

   The first part of the article, having for its purpose to
show that the conclusion which had been drawn from
the assigned evidence was logically untenable, was not
an inappropriate undertaking for an outsider; but the
undertaking grew into an exposition and defence of the
nebular hypothesis considered in detail. With a daring

which I look back upon with surprise, I set forth sundry

suggestions, interpretations, and speculations, in aid of
it. There was an attempt to show how nebular rotation

sensations are fairly well adjusted to the requirements, the emotions are

                                                   25

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1S57-8

would be set up in masses of diffused nebulous matter.

Arguments were drawn from the distribution of
comets ; from the inclinations of the orbit-planes of the
planets; from the inclinations of the planetary axes to
their respective orbit-planes; from the velocities of ro
tation of the planets ; and from the distribution of satel
lites. An endeavour was made to show that for the
various specific gravities of the planets the hypothesis

yields an explanation ; and that the differences in tem
perature among them, which there is reason to infer,
as well as their general differences from the Sun in re
spect of temperature, are also such as the hypothesis
implies: to which last argument there was added an
inference respecting the composition of the solar atmos

phere.

   An astronomer would have been chary about com
mitting himself to so many speculative views. To pro
pound them needed one who had not an established
scientific reputation at stake. Naturally there were
errors in the article. Two, however, of the conclusions
drawn have since been verified. Mr. Proctor has given

abundant further proof that the nebulae are not remote
sidereal systems; and within some three years after the
publication of the article, the researches of Kirchhoff
and Bunsen proved, by the help of the spectroscope, the

truth of the speculation I had ventured concerning the

photosphere of the sun. The article was published in
the Westminster Review for July. Some correspondence
ensued with Sir John Herschel and Sir G. B. Airy, then
Astronomer Royal, who were good enough to favour

me with criticisms. On two points I had the satisfac

tion of finding the disagreement of the first met by the

26

^t. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

I left town towards the end of June, and before going

elsewhere spent a few days at home.

The scheme which had in January taken definite

shape in my mind, and indeed on paper, had of course

during the spring been the subject of thought in respect

of the means for carrying it into effect. I finally decided

to consult John Mill on the matter, and wrote to him

the following letter.      "

                              17,  Wilmot  Street,

My dear Sir, --                    Derby, 29 July, '58.

May I ask your opinion on a point partly of personal

interest, partly of more general interest?
   In the essays on " Progress : its Law and Cause " and on '

" Transcendental Physiology," which I believe you have

read, are the rudiments of certain general principles, which,

at the time they were first enunciated, I had no intention of

developing further. But more recently, these general prin

ciples, uniting with certain others whose connexion with

them I did not before recognize, have evolved into a form
far higher than I had ever anticipated ; and I now find that
the various special ideas which I had designed hereafter to

publish on certain divisions of Biology, Psychology and Soci

ology, have fallen into their places as parts of the general

body of doctrine thus originating. Having intended to con

tinue occupying myself, as hitherto, in writing essays and

books embodying these various special ideas, I have become

still more anxious to devote my energies to the exposition

of these larger views which include them, and, as I think,

reduce all the higher sciences to a rational form.

   But, unhappily, my books have at present no adequate sale.
Not only have they entailed upon me the negative loss of

years spent without remuneration, but also a heavy positive
loss in unrepaid expenses of publication. What little prop

                       27

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

I am more anxious than ever to persevere, it seems likely
that I shall be unable to do so. My health does not permit

me to spend leisure hours in these higher pursuits, after a
day spent in remunerative occupation. And thus there ap
pears no alternative but to desist.

   Under these circumstances my question is -- Do you think
that in the reorganized staff of the Indian Administration I
might find some post, rather of trust than of much active
duty, which would give me an income sufficing for my modest
bachelor needs, while it would allow adequate leisure for
the prosecution of these aims? I fear that few if any such

posts are likely to exist ; and that my political views might
render some, even of these few, unavailable ; but it appears

worth while to inquire. I need hardly say that my object is

so exclusively that which I have explained, that a post which

did not conduce to it would have no temptation for me, how

ever otherwise desirable.

   I ask your advice under the belief that you sympathize in
the general views I wish to develop, and may therefore feel

some interest in the matter.

                                          Believe me,
                                               Very truly yours,
                                                         Herbert Spencer."

   Mill's reply to this letter, though sympathetic, was

disappointing. It held out no encouragement ; and I

dropped all thought of any such help as an office of the

kind described might have given.

   Though born in Derby, I had up to this time seen
but little of Derbyshire. Matlock I had been to; but
had reached no point further north. Mainly I fancy
from lack of funds, I decided to limit my summer excur

sion to a ramble in the Derbyshire dales ; hoping to find

some fishing as a pastime. Going as far as Buxton, and

28

&i. 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED

again, and settled myself at a picturesque little place,

the Briars, Matlock Bank, where I spent about a fort

night: returning thence to Derby.
    Already, from an illustration given a few pages back,

joined with preceding ones, some will have inferred that

I had adopted Danton's motto, -- De Vaudace! encore de

I'audace! toujours de Vaudace!; and while at Matlock

Bank I furnished another illustration. I have named the
fact that in 1851, I attended a series of Prof. Owen's lec

tures on Comparative Osteology ; and that in the course
of them my scepticism respecting his theory of the
archetypal skeleton and archetypal vertebra grew gradu
ally stronger, until at the close of the course it ended in
complete disbelief. No occasion had thus far arisen for
setting forth this disbelief; nor, in the absence of en
couragement derived from finding doubt in others, should

I have thought myself warranted in expressing it. Dis

tinguished biologists had shown their adherence to Prof.
Owen's doctrine. It was set forth and adopted in Car
penter's Principles of Physiology ; and the Archetype and
Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton was in use as a text
book at University College. Though this endorsement

did not cause me to believe; yet even my independence
would not have prompted public utterance of dissent had

nothing happened. But during the spring, Prof. Huxley,
in his Croonian Lecture before the Royal Society on
" The Vertebrate Structure of the Skull," attacked Prof.
Owen's interpretation of it. Hearing this amount of dis

agreement expressed, I was encouraged to take up the

general theory ; and in June arranged with the Editor of
the Medico-Chirurgical Review to write a criticism on the
several works in which Prof. Owen has embodied it. Had

                                                    29

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1857-8

been absurd enough to criticize a naturalist so profoundly
acquainted with the facts ; but it was a question of rea
soning. Setting out with the remark that " judging
whether another proves his position is a widely different
thing from proving your own ;" the first paragraph of my
article ended with the further remark that " if the data

put before him do not bear out the inference, it is com
petent for every logical reader to say so." Thus taking
Prof. Owen's various statements and explanations as they

stood, the purpose was to show that they involved incon

gruities so numerous as to make his hypothesis untenable.
Though the doctrine of evolution made no overt appear
ance in the earlier part of the article, it came out at the
close ; for in the last few pages an endeavour was made
to show how the genesis of the vertebrate skeleton is
interpretable from the evolution point of view.

   Six weeks of Derby proved anything but beneficial.
The popular notion about native air was then, as on many
other occasions, disproved in my own case. At the end
of August, being much below par, I joined the Lotts at
Llandudno, and there rapidly improved. The salubrity
of the place and the many pleasant excursions were as
causes of improvement, aided by the enlivening society
of old friends -- the only society I much care about. And
here I am prompted to remark concerning health, that not

by people at large only, but by medical men, the effects
of mental influences are under-estimated. The exhilara

tion produced by novelty ; the breaking away from the
monotonous routine of daily life at home ; the absence of
worrying anxieties and the presence of positive gratifica
tions, are usually more potent causes of improvement
than are differences in physical circumstances. Even

30

&x- 37-38] A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY PROJECTED
enjoyments and decrease of annoyances, is excluded, the

effects of agreeable emotions are often surprising. I

have had many experiences of the fact that dyspepsia, so
far from being necessarily exacerbated by dining out,
may even be cured, notwithstanding many dietetic im

prudences, if the social surroundings are such as to yield

great pleasure.

   After three weeks at Llandudno, and an interval at

Derby, I returned to town in October ; and again took up

                                    V

                      CHAPTER XXXI.

                  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT.

                   1858-- 59. Mt. 38--39.

  I had left London before the end of June ; and it was

not until the first of July that the two papers by Mr.
Darwin and Mr. Wallace on the operation of Natural
Selection in causing divergence of species, were read
before the Linnaean Society. I have but a vague impres
sion of the way in which this event became known to me ;
but my belief is that I remained in ignorance of it until

my return to town in October.

   A reason confirming me in this belief is furnished by

a paragraph contained in a letter to my mother dated

29 November, which runs as follows :--" I have been dis

tributing a few volumes of my Essays. Enclosed are
some of the acknowledgments, from Dr. Latham, Dr.
Hooker, and Mr. Charles Darwin." As the volume had

been published in December, 1857, I was, when I came

upon this passage, at a loss to understand why this dis
tribution had not been made until November, 1858. But

the probable explanation is that, when I learnt the nature

of Mr. Darwin's paper and learnt that Dr. Hooker ac

cepted his interpretation, I sent copies of the volume to

                                                    32

JEt. 38-39]      PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

velopment Hypothesis contained in it. The following is
Mr. Darwin's acknowledgment :--

  No, it is not as follows ; for on consideration I decide

to omit it. Notwithstanding the compliments it contains,

which seemed to negative publication, I was about to

quote  is I it,  becausea      dispels, more effectually than any
                           it
thing else can, current error respecting the relation

between Mr. Darwin's views and my own. But the re

production of would be out of taste, and leave the
                 it                                           I

error to be otherwise corrected.

I  Here may fitly comment on certain difficulties which
   foresee will from time to time present themselves --

difficulties in choosing between two alternatives, each of

which objectionable. If, after long periods of non-suc

cess, there came to an autobiographer incidents implying

success, and the increased appreciation indicated, men

tion of these cannot be omitted without partially falsify

ing the narrative. On the other hand, as they reflect

some kind of honour on him, the mention of them ap

pears indicative of vanity though may result from
                 a                                     it
                                                                    it
                                                    ;                      is
                                                                                      is

                                                                                           a
desire to give complete presentation, or from the feeling

that against the debit items of the account                      but fair

that the credit items should be placed. What, then, to
be done? At first sight seems possible for one who
                 ;

                          it
                                      it
narrates his own life and draws his own portrait to be

quite truthful but proves to be impossible.

   There are various media which distort the things seen

through them, and an autobiography                     I is   medium which
                                                           a
produces some irremediable distortions.

   Immediately on my return to town proposed to the
editor of the Medico-Chirurgical Review to write an essay
on " The Laws of Organic Form " for publication in

                  46 33

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1858-59

January, 1859. The title shows that the essay contained
a further extension of evolutionary views. The germinal
idea had occurred to me in the course of a country ramble
with Mr. G. H. Lewes in the autumn of 1851.

   The thesis was that organic forms in general, vegetal
and animal, are determined by the relations of the parts
to incident forces. Radial symmetry, bilateral symmetry,
and asymmetry, alike in stationary and moving organ
isms, were shown, one or other of them, to become estab

lished, according as the parts are similarly disposed
towards the environment all round an axis, or similarly
disposed on two sides of an axis, or not similarly
disposed on any side. The explanation given was

that here the necessities entailed by position and there the

necessities entailed by locomotion, entailed likenesses be
tween parts which were conditioned in like ways. This
general interpretation of external forms was congruous
with the more special interpretation of internal forms in

the case of the vertebrate skeleton -- an interpretation ap
pended to the critique on Prof. Owen's theory.

   A systematized and elaborated statement of the hy

pothesis set forth in this essay, was in later years incor
porated in Part iv. of the Principles of Biology.

  What induced me to take up the subject, I cannot
remember; but while at Derby in October, I collected

some materials for an article on " The Morals of Trade,"
and, continuing my inquiries in London, began writing it

as soon as the article above named was completed.

   This was one of the few exceptions to the general rule.
Many examples have made it clear that nearly everything
I wrote had a bearing, direct or indirect, on the doctrine

34

JEt. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

any such bearing; unless, indeed, it be in the tacit recog
nition of the moral modifiability of human nature and the
moral adaptation of men to the passing social state. The
article took for its especial topic, not those multitudinous
small dishonesties which characterize retail trade, but
those larger and less familiar ones which vitiate the trans
actions of manufacturers, merchants, and wholesale deal

ers. A further object of the essay was to show that the

dishonesty of the classes not engaged in trade is proved

by numerous illustrations to be as great in degree though
different in kind. And yet another object was to suggest
that a remote cause for such dishonesties, alike of traders

and others, is the indiscriminate admiration given to
whatever implies wealth.

   Originally written for the Quarterly Review but not
accepted by the editor, the article was published in the

Westminster Review for April, 1859. I may add, as a

curious incident, that many years afterwards the Rev.
Canon Lyttelton applied to me for permission to republish
it in a pamphlet along with a sermon of his own on

the same subject -- a permission which I cheerfully gave.

That an ecclesiastic should take a step which coupled his
name with mine, curiously exemplified the spread of lib
erality in religious opinion.

   In a letter to my father dated 16 November, 1858, there
occurs the remark :-- " The arrangements at Malvern

House are not so good as they were. The number is

much smaller --Mr. Parry and myself being the only in

mates not of the family :" inconvenient changes of

hours being  also named. And then a    letter of 15 Decem
ber says of  my hosts that :-- " They  are going to make

             35

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1858-59

venient to have me. They express great regret at the

necessity of separation. I, too, am sorry; for I doubt
whether I shall find a place altogether as suitable."

   Had it not been that Mr. Parry -- the old gentleman

I have referred to as being eighty and a wit-- had also
to take his departure, I should have concluded that my

host had been prompted by the wish to prevent any
further influence exercised by me over his son: a youth

of some nineteen or twenty. Not, indeed, that I had

knowingly exercised such influence ; but the son had got
hold of my books, and imbibed from them ideas of a kind
his father did not approve. Naturally enough, he desired

to prevent what he regarded as a perversion ; and his

desire, though clearly not the sole cause, may have been

a part cause for making the domestic change which took

place.

   My removal was long postponed, however ; for my
letters continue to be dated from 13, Loudoun Road up to
the beginning of February ; at which date, having failed

to find a desirable habitat, I went down home for a few

weeks.

   During the latter part of 1858, as during its earlier
part, there had been constantly before me the question --
How to carry out my undertaking? The general con

ception had of course been enlarging, and gaining in

definiteness while it gained in fulness ; and I was grow

ing eager to find some way of setting it forth after the
manner sketched out at the beginning of the year. The

difficulties in the way were very great. What little prop
erty had come to me from my uncle Thomas, had been

nearly all frittered away. Partly it had been spent in the

36

Mr. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

tive, but entailed positive losses. And of what had not

thus been sunk, most had gone in costs of living and
travelling about during the eighteen months in which my
nervous breakdown had prevented me altogether from
working. As may be inferred, when these drafts upon it
had been met not very much remained of the legacy of
£500 left to me in 1853. During the period described in

the last two chapters, I was able to work at the best only

three hours a day, and often not that; and there occa
sionally came relapses which forced me to leave off for a
time entirely. To these facts must be added the further
one, that my essays, not usually of a kind to be written
off-hand, but involving much thought and inquiry,
brought me but small returns. The articles for the
Medico-Chirurgical Review were paid for at the rate of
either six pounds or six guineas per sheet (sixteen
pages) ; and the others at the rate of ten pounds per
sheet. Clearly such being my limited capacity for work,

and such being the remuneration for what I did, it was

not easy for me, though practising every economy, to

meet my expenses.

   How then was it possible to execute my project -- a
project sufficiently extensive and onerous even for one in
full health and having income enough to maintain him
while devoting himself to non-paying work. What to do,

was a question frequently occupying my not very hopeful
thoughts, and was a question sometimes discussed with

friends. One of the schemes I entertained, not in a san
guine way it is true, shows how hardly pressed I was

to find some plan. Chapman, when the Westminster
Review came into his hands, had established what he

called an " Independent Section "-- an appended portion

            37

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                   [1858-59

he thought well, though he did not wish to commit the

Review to its conclusions. My proposal was that I

should write instalments of the System of Philosophy, or

at any rate of the first volume, to be published in this
independent section -- some two or three sheets per quar
ter : being paid for them at the ordinary rate. Naturally
enough Chapman did not think favourably of this pro
posal, and it dropped through. Wild as it was, however,
it was not so wild as one made by my friend Lewes.

Knowing that I was not without mechanical ingenuity,
and that I had years before profited by an appliance I
had registered, he suggested that I should get my income

by small inventions, and devote my leisure time to the

work ! I remember that George Eliot joined me in laugh

ter at this amusing proposal. It was made by one who
little knew how precarious are the proceeds of inventions,

and how frequently inventors reap losses rather than

gains.

   Thus the year ended without disclosing any way of

doing that which I now felt to be my work in life.

Before leaving town as above indicated, several small

matters of interest occurred, as shown in the following

extracts from a letter home, written on January 10.

  " I have agreed with Chapman to do an article for him on

the relative values of different kinds of knowledge. I have

not fixed the title yet. But its chief aim -is to go in for

more science.                                      allow.  But

  I am pretty well -- as well as Xmas excitements

I should be all the better for less going out.

   The matter of Chapman's business has dropped through.

It would not have done unless I had devoted all my time to
it. So it is to be carried on by Chapman's late assistants --

38

iEt- 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

  I shall probably leave this house in about a week. I am

going to take an advertisement to the Times to-day.

   I will send you the new number of the Medico-Chi. contain

ing my article on the " Laws of Organic Form," shortly.

At present Lewes has it.

  I did not after all go down to Hastings. Sir J. Trelaw-

ney and his family returned to town sooner than was ex

pected.

  The Potters are in town, and I spent Saturday evening
with them. I am to go and see them in the spring."

   The third of the foregoing paragraphs recalls a fact

which I had completely forgotten. Chapman, a sanguine

speculative man, who, during his career as a publisher,

lasting some fourteen or fifteen years, had been losing
money, was at this date forced to retire: deciding, at

the same time, to resume those studies in preparation for
the practice of medicine, which had been interrupted
when he became a publisher. Among those who had
assisted him with loans was Mr. Octavius Smith; and,

judging from what occurred, he had, I presume, become

the chief creditor. Now-a-days but few publishers are

alarmed by so-called heterodox opinions in the books

offered to them ; but at that time Chapman was the only

respectable publisher through whom could be issued
books which were tacitly or avowedly rationalistic.

Hence, being broad-minded and anxious that the spread

of liberal opinion should not be hindered, Mr. Smith

wished the business to be carried on. Having, as it
seemed, some confidence in my judgment, he suggested

that I should undertake to superintend it : perhaps think
ing that after giving it due attention, I should have suf

ficient leisure to carry out the undertaking which he

             39

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                 [1858-59

as it is even for one fully disciplined to make an enter

prise of such a kind answer by devoting to it all energies,

it would be impossible to make it answer if neither of

those conditions was fulfilled.

   The article above named as having been agreed upon,
which was eventually entitled " What Knowledge is of
most worth ?" and now forms the first chapter in the little

work Education, &c., was commenced either just before

my departure for Derby or shortly afterwards. I recall

the date because of an important incident connected with

it. Before the essay was half done, I suffered one of my

not infrequent relapses, and had to suspend work. My

father was at the time much troubled by the interference

of the Local Sanitary Board with property of his in
Derby-- some thirteen small houses which, instead of be

ing improved by alterations on which the authorities

insisted, had been so much damaged that some of his

tenants left. Hence he contemplated a memorial to the
Town Council, complaining of the treatment he had re

ceived. He was, however, peculiar in the respect that

while energetic about small things, he was almost para

lyzed by things of moment. Anxious that the proposed

memorial should be written, knowing that if left to him

I
       I

              it

            I

                         a if

                                                       it,

                                            I

                                                                  it

                                                      I

                                                                         It ; it
self my father would not write and yet feeling that my
own state of brain would not allow me to write for

him, said that he would be amanuensis would try

to do the work for him by dictating. He agreed and

the experiment, being tried, proved successful.                                   did

more -- initiated practice which thereafter adopted.

made the satisfactory discovery that my head would

bear dictating much more easily than would bear writ

ing; and at once foresaw that this discovery would

40

Sx. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

   On my return to town in March I settled myself at
24, Oakley Square. A letter dated 23rd April contains the
paragraph :-- " I have got an amanuensis, and find the
dictation answers. I do fully half as much again or more,

and with greater ease."

  I may here remark that from the beginning I never
experienced any difficulty. Friends to whom I afterwards

recommended dictation, asserted either that they should

not be able, or that they had not been able, to collect their

thoughts under such conditions. One of them who, yield

ing to my repeated exhortations, tried the experiment,

told me on inquiry that it had failed. On asking why, he

said that his landlady, not having succeeded in finding,

as he requested, a youth to play the part of scribe, sug

gested that perhaps her daughter might serve. He ac
cepted the proposal ; but, on making a trial, confessed

that he found himself thinking much more about the girl
than about his work. This, it seemed to me, was a very

inadequate experience on which to found a generaliza

tion. Avoiding a distraction of this kind, I was but little

impeded. The disturbance to thought produced by the

consciousness that another was waiting for me, though I
think I felt it a little at first, soon became inappreciable.

Did not the change of method affect my style? is a ques

tion which will be asked. Not very greatly I think. After

this article, of which the first half had been written and

the second half dictated, was published, I put to a compe

tent judge of composition the question whether he could

decide where the transition was made. He was unable to
do this; and remarked only that he thought the latter

part of the essay was more declamatory -- I think that was
the word--than the earlier part. Nevertheless I believe

            4i

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1858-59

my style. The general experience is that diffuseness re
sults when the pen is held by another. One who, when

writing by proxy, makes it a point to keep his amanu

ensis going, is obviously more likely to use a defective
expression than when, holding the pen himself, he has no
external incentive to abridge any pause he makes for

thinking. Only where, as in my own case, there is ac
quired the habit of so far ignoring the amanuensis as to
take whatever time may be needed for choosing the best
form of words, is the effect on the quality of the product

likely to be small. Still, an effect is, I think, traceable.
It has been remarked to me more than once that Social

Statics is better written than my later books. Though
doubtless a good deal is due to the nature of subject --
though The Study of Sociology, akin in matter, ap

proaches more nearly in manner to Social Statics than any
other work of mine; yet there remains a difference.

Social Statics was, I remember, characterized as epigram

matic; but none of my later books could be rightly thus

characterized.

   The essay "What Knowledge is of most worth?"

reference to which has called forth these parenthetic re
marks, was published in the Westminster Review for July,
1859. Since then, the claims of science have received
increasing recognition ; but when this essay was written,
its leading thesis, that the teaching of the classics should

give place to the teaching of science, was regarded by
nine out of ten cultivated people as simply monstrous.
Even now, changed though the general feeling is, more
space for science is but reluctantly yielded ; and in such
places as public schools the space is still very small. To
one who never received the bias given by the established

42

^t. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

tions and customs weighs but little, the state of opinionis ;
about the matter appears astounding. To think that after
these thousands of years of civilization, the prevailing       it,
belief should still be that while knowledge of his own
nature, bodily and mental, and of the world physical andis
social in which he has to live, is of no moment to a man,
it is of great moment that he should master the languages           j
of two extinct peoples and become familiar with their
legends, battles, and superstitions, as well as the achieveit
ments, mostly sanguinary, of their men, and the crimes of
their gods! Two local groups of facts and fictions,
filling a relatively minute space in the genesis of a World
which is itself but an infinitesimal part of the Universe,

so occupy students that they leave the World and the

exUniverse unstudied! Had Greece and Rome never

isted, human life, and the right conduct of would have

been in their essentials exactly what they now are: sur
vival or death, health or disease, prosperity or adversity,
happiness or misery, would have been just in the same

ways determined by the adjustment or non-adjustment of
actions to requirements. And yet knowledge subserving
the adjustment which so profoundly concerns men from
hour to hour, contemptuously neglected while the best
preparation for complete living supposed to be famil
iarity with the words and thoughts, successes and dis

asters, follies, vices, and atrocities, of two peoples whose

intelligence was certainly not above ours, whose moral

standard was unquestionably lower, and whose acquaint-
ance with the nature of things, internal and external, was
relatively small. Still more when from the value of knowl
edge for guidance we pass to the value has for general
illumination, may we continue to marvel at the perversity

                43

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY       [1858-59

their years over the errors of ancient speculators who had

no adequate data for their reasonings, while all that mod

ern science, having for materials the accumulated and

generalized observations of centuries, can tell respecting
ourselves and our surroundings, they ignore; or if they

IInglance at do so at leisure hours as at something rela
       I; I Itively unimportant.times to come this condition of

            I a it,opinion will be instanced as one of the strange aberra
                    I
tions through which Humanity has passed.
                                    is
Concerning this article may add that, while had no
                               if I
                                  Idirect bearing on the doctrine of evolution, its insistence

                                                ;Ion comprehensive scientific culture, was an insistence on
                                                       I

                                                                                it
                                                                                   it

                                                                                                                                                                  ;
the acquisition of that knowledge from which the doc

trine of evolution an eventual outcome.

Sometime during this spring occurred an incident

which may name partly for its intrinsic interest, and

partly as lesson.

Already have mentioned the fact that, while yet the

first of the Scenes of Clerical Life was but partly written,
   was told by George Eliot, on whom had frequently

urged the writing of fiction, that she had commenced

and, as think have said, was for some time the sole
possessor of the secret. Of course curiosity concerning

the authorship of these stories accompanied the interest

in them and amusement was afforded me by the specu

lations heard ventured --in some cases by her friends.
After the publication of Adam Bede the curiosity became

greater and the speculation more rife and was by-

and-by guessed that she was the anonymous author.

Chapman, knowing     that anyone knew did, one     day
suddenly addressed                                 told
                     me-- " By the way, Mrs. Dunn

                     44

/Et. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

Adam Bcde: is it true?" " Mrs. Dunn !" I replied ; " who

told Mrs. Dunn any such thing?" " Oh, that she didn't

say." " I do not see how Mrs. Dunn should know any

thing about it ; she can have no means of learning."

Thus I fenced as well as I could, but all to no purpose.
Chapman soon returned to the question -- " Is it true ?"
To this question I made no answer; and of course my

silence amounted to an admission.

  When next I went over to Wandsworth, I told them

what had occurred, and was blamed for not giving a
denial: the case of Scott being named as justifying such

a course. Leaving aside the ethical question, however, a

denial from me would have been futile. The truth would

have been betrayed by my manner, if not otherwise. I

have so little control over my features that a vocal " No "

would have been inevitably accompanied by a facial
" Yes."

   The lesson which the incident teaches is that a secret

cannot safely be committed even to one in whom perfect
confidence may be reposed. For, as we see, scrupulous

faith will not always prevent unintended disclosure. I

may add that fortunately no harm was done. The secret
was leaking out ; and, moreover, the reason for keeping

the secret had no longer much weight.

When thinking about ways of prosecuting my scheme,
there sometimes arose the question -- Is there any post
Iunder Government which
                         might consistently accept,

and which would give me the needful leisure? Of course

most of the offices which might else have served were

unavailable by one holding the views I did, and still do,

concerning the limitations of State-functions. An in

             45

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1838-59

might be filled without any dereliction of principle ; since

maintenance of order is a State-function which I have

ever insisted upon as essential. It was, however, a

foolish hope that such an office would, after I had dis

charged its duties, leave me any time for writing. But
my mood was that of the drowning man who catches at

a straw.

   There is proof that the thought of obtaining some post
of this kind had been entertained towards the close of the

preceding year. Then, and during subsequent months, I

obtained testimonials from sundry leading men. Among
them were Mill, Huxley, Tyndall, Grote, Hooker, Fraser,
Sir Henry Holland, and Sir G. C. Lewis. Several were
strongly expressed ; and especially those of Mill, Huxley,

and Tyndall.
   Of all posts likely to answer my purpose, that of stamp-

distributor was the most promising. It is one of which

the duties are in large measure mechanical and can be to

a considerable extent performed by a subordinate. Either
at the close of 1858 or in the spring of 1859, the stamp-

distributorship for Derby fell vacant, and I made an

effort to obtain it. Lord Derby was then Prime Minister ;
and Lord Stanley (the present Lord Derby) was Secre
tary of State for India. He had read some of my books ;

and, as I knew from the editor of the Westminster, had
expressed approval of some of my articles. Hence I

hoped something from his friendly intervention: the ap

pointment of an impecunious author to such a place being
not without precedent. The claims of party proved too
strong, however. The place was given to the editor of a

provincial Conservative paper who had been useful in

46

^Et. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

a fact which I had absolutely forgotten -- namely, that I

had thought of a foreign consulship as a post which
might possibly give me adequate leisure. This was a
very erroneous supposition, Hooker told me.

   What was my daily life during this period ? The ques

tion is one I cannot answer more definitely than by

saying that, after a walk of half-an-hour or so, the morn

ing was devoted to work--or as much of the morning as

the state of my head would allow; and that during the

rest of the day I had to kill time as best I might. I

suppose I walked a good deal in the afternoon ; and did
much of my thinking while walking --a habit which was,

and has since been, physically injurious, however much

otherwise beneficial. A story I have told of myself as a

boy, shows how apt I was to become mentally absorbed

at an early age; and in later life, states of absorption,

different as were the subjects of thought, were scarcely

less marked. I once discovered to my dismay that I

sometimes passed those living in the same house with

me, and, though I looked them in the face, remained

unconscious that I had seen them.

It is clear, however, from letters, that my social circle

was extending. Beyond mention of engagements to

friends already named there are occasionally such pas
sages as :--

" I dined yesterday in company with Mr. Roebuck, his wife

and daughter, and some other notabilities." [One of the said
notabilities was, I
" Sir J. Trelawney   remember, the late  Mr. Charles   Austen].
                      has invited me to  go yachting  with him
for a few days." " I dined in company with Tyndall on

Wednesday. He gave us an account of his night on the top

                     47

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                            [1858-59

and stayed an hour." [Dr. Arnott, at that time well known
by his Elements of Physics, liked the article " What Knowl

..."edge is of most worth," and had obtained my address from
the editor of the Westminster.]  I am going to Dr.

Carpenter's to-night, to meet Mr. Morell."

Dr. Morell, known at that time by his book on The

Recent Philosophy of Europe, has long resided in Capri,
and has dropped out of public thought. During dinner a
story was told about some eccentric member of the Car
penter family, who had adopted a boy with a view to

carrying out his own ideas of a good education. He

shortly found that the undertaking was more onerous
than he expected, and thereupon cast about for a wife:

giving one whom he found to understand that the rearing

of the boy was to be considered the primary purpose of

the marriage. Dr. Morell's comment was -- " Ah, I see :

Rule of Three inverse."

   Of amusements in those days there is but little to say.
Now that operas were no longer free to me. I never went
-- the cost was too great; and I but rarely saw a play.

Occasionally some music was heard during the seasons
when there were going on the promenade concerts,
which were at that time conducted by their promoter,

Jullien. Especially on what were announced as classical

nights did I go. Even then there was often a good deal
which I rather tolerated than enjoyed --much that seemed
to me manufacture rather than inspiration. A friend of

mine, Pigott, said of orchestral music, that when from

any one instrument there came something worth listening
to, all the other instruments forthwith entered into a con

spiracy to put it down ; and though his remark ignored
too much the larger effects of orchestral combinations, it

48

JEt. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

not sufficiently coherent. Ballads had ceased to give me

the pleasure which they did in the early days ; but above

all I was, and am still, intolerant of such solos as were

performed by Sivori and other celebrities of the kind--

mere displays of executive skill. When I go to a con
cert, I do not go to hear gymnastics on the violin.

  I may remark in passing that the applause given to

such performances well illustrates the vitiation of opin
ion. Usually after a display of wonderful mechanical
dexterity by an instrumentalist, the members of the or
chestra applaud. Observing this, many of the audience,

thinking these cultivated musicians must be the best
judges, applaud loudly; and the rest of the audience join
in the applause, lest they should be thought persons of no
taste : the truth being that the brother instrumentalists
applaud, not the music produced, but the triumph over
difficulties. And thus the mass of hearers, following

authority as they suppose, are led to accept as music what

is in fact the murder of music. In this case, as in multi

tudinous other cases, every one says and does what every

one else says and does -- lacking courage to do otherwise ;
and so helps to generate or to maintain a sham opinion.

Considering that the ordinary citizen has no excess of
individuality to boast of, it seems strange that he should

be so anxious to hide what little he has.

  Early in May, 1859, I left town for Gloucestershire to

spend ten days at Standish. It must, I think, have been
on this occasion that I initiated my little friends there-- a
troop of children, all girls, whom I had severally seen
grow up from infancy -- in Natural History, by establish

ing an aquarium and giving them lessons in the use of
the microscope. Hitherto our afternoon walks had been

                47 49

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1858-59

walks simply ; but now they became expeditions in search

of interesting objects. My visits being the occasions for
rambles further afield and less restrained than those
taken in charge of a governess, were, I believe, looked
forward to as bringing extended liberties and more varied
amusements. The pleasurable associations thus estab

lished in early days affected our relations throughout our

after lives.

   Returning to town for a few days only, I left for Derby

some time before the end of the month, and there recom

menced work. The lives and deaths of periodicals would
form a good topic for an essayist. Annually a consider

able number are born, and annually a considerable num

ber die, --now scarcely surviving infancy, now killed by

starvation in middle life, and now coming to an end in
old age in consequence of that increasing rigidity which
will not allow of adaptation to new conditions. Out of

the periodicals to which I have contributed, I can count

up ten newspapers, magazines and quarterlies, which
have thus disappeared. One of them was the Universal
Review, a then recently established organ of opinion for

which I had been asked to write an article. It was one

of those which die early ; but it survived long enough to

publish the essay on " Illogical Geology " which I had

undertaken for it. This was written, or rather dictated,

during a six weeks' sojourn at Derby.
   The topic was one which gave occasion for expressing

evolutionary ideas in a new direction ; and I presume

that the consciousness of this was dominant with me

when I undertook the subject. There were the changes

of the Earth's crust itself to be considered from a de
velopmental point of view, as well as the changes of the

5°

JS.1. 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

article was to have been a review of the works of Hugh
Miller ; but these eventually became simply the text for
a discussion of what seemed to me the errors of orthodox

geology, as exemplified in them as well as in the works
of Murchison and Lyell. The title " Illogical Geology "
sufficiently shows that the article called in question the
legitimacy of current conclusions, considered as follow
ing from the evidence assigned. No more in this case

than in the case of Prof. Owen's theory, should I have

ventured to express dissent concerning matters of fact ;

but, accepting the facts as stated, an outsider was not un

warranted in considering whether the inferences were
legitimately drawn from them.

   The assumption made by some that strata in different
parts of the Earth, called by the same name, were con

temporaneous, and the more defensible assumption made

by others, that if not single strata yet systems of strata

were everywhere contemporaneous, were shown to be
inconsistent with various of the admissions and asser
tions elsewhere made. The dogma then accepted by
geologists, that certain great breaks in the succession of
organic remains imply almost complete destructions of
living things and creations of new floras and faunas, was

contested ; and it was argued that the acknowledged
course of geological changes would, along with small
breaks, necessitate these great breaks. Naturally a chief
aim was that of showing that the arguments against the

hypothesis of evolution which Hugh Miller and others

Idrew from palaeontology, were fallacious. But was

candid enough to admit that while geological evidence
did not disprove the development hypothesis, neither did it
prove it: contending that the most we can expect is to

              51

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY         [1858-59

yielded by comparatively recent fossil forms.  This con-
gruity has since been shown to exist.

   In those years and after, a craving for the mountains

recurred annually ; and when, along with satisfaction of

it I could satisfy a craving for the sea, I rejoiced in doing
so. Leaving home early in July, I took the coast of Cum

berland on my way north ; settling myself for a week or

so at Drigg, close to the since-established watering-place
known as Sea-scales. My artist-friend Deacon joined

me there with his two boys. A walk over to Wast-water

was one of our excursions ; and there was a subsequent

migration to St. Bees.

   A change of ministry had occurred in June ; and Sir

G. C. Lewis had become Home Secretary. He was editor

of the Edinburgh Review at the time I wrote for it the

article on " Railway Morals and Railway Policy :" an

interview and some correspondence having been thereby

occasioned. Moreover he had written me some friendly
criticisms on the doctrine set forth in the essay on " Pro

gress : its Law and Cause." So that I was not without
hope that, having stamp-distributorships in his gift, I

might through him obtain one, and thereby be enabled to

live while carrying out my scheme. Before leaving Derby

I had forwarded to him the testimonials above named,
and while at Drigg received his reply. I cannot now find
it ; but I remember distinctly enough that it was not
encouraging -- so little encouraging in fact that I there

after gave up all hope.

   The 19th of July found me at Achranich, the highland

paradise of my kind friends with whom I had before
spent a delightful two months, and with whom I was now

52

Bit- 38-39]  PLANS FOR EXECUTING IT

on the 2 1 st-- " Fishing, riding, driving, walking, talking

and laughing, are capital stimuli, and have given me two

good nights :" a sentence I quote partly to indicate the

enjoyable life, and partly to show that the question of
             leesxsprselseseipon sti"ll groeomd ainniegdhtsdo"miinsanrte.lativI emuosntlyadidn
more or
that the

meaning ; for my best night would, by any one in health,

be called a bad one.

  " The day was one I shall never forget," is the closing

sentence of a letter written during the last week of my

stay. It describes " the most charming excursion I ever

had." This was an excursion by boat " down the Sound
of Mull, up Loch Sunart and Loch Teachus ; and home by

land," which I name not so much for its own sake,

though " the scenery was splendid and the colouring mar
vellous ;" as because in our party of twelve there were
several of known names. One was Professor Sellar,

whose works on Roman literature are of high repute;

another was Miss Cross, who some years later published
a volume of graceful poems, but, marrying and dying

soon afterwards, did not fulfil the promise then made;

and a third was Mr. John Cross, who, long afterwards,
married George Eliot and wrote her life. Young and

vivacious as were nearly all members of the party, and

elated as all were by sailing over a sunny sea amid

islands and mountains made gorgeous by the autumn
colouring of trees, bracken and decaying lichens, the oc

casion united a variety of pleasures which but rarely

come together ; so that I remember saying after our re

turn that the day must be marked not by one white stone

             53

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY         [1858-59

myself in fulfilling an engagement made before I left

town in the spring.  A letter to my father dated    29th
                     paragraph :-- " Dr. Sieveking   has
April contains the

asked me to review Bain's new book ' The Emotions and

the Will ' for the Medico-Chirurgical; and I have con

sented."

  This review I undertook mainly because of the con

nexion which the subject had with the general question of
evolution. Its aim was to show that the phenomena

presented by the emotions can be truly understood only

from the evolution point of view. Bain and I were on

terms, if not exactly of friendship, yet of friendly ac

quaintanceship ; but I said in the article all that I
thought : giving credit at the same time that I expressed

dissent. Some of my criticisms touched fundamentally

his method and his general conceptions ; but he, in a way

unusual with authors, accepted them in good part. In

deed I cannot remember anyone, known to me either

directly or indirectly, who has maintained an attitude so

purely philosophical ; and in whom the interests of truth

have so greatly predominated over all personal interests.
In after years we became more intimate and eventually

established cordial relations.

  Towards the end of October I returned to town and

again took up my abode in Oakley Square. Though my

letters at the time do not betray discouragement, yet I

can scarcely have failed to feel it; for now, after the
lapse of nearly two years, I seemed no nearer to the

execution of my project than on the day when it first took

                     54

CHAPTER XXXII.

A PLAN FIXED UPON.

1859 --60. Mr. 39 --40.

   The closing months of 1859 were occupied in fulfilling
several literary engagements. Masson, my acquaint

ance with whom, made nearly ten years before, had ri

pened into a friendship which has since continued and

increased in warmth, was at that time Editor of Mactnil-

lan's Magazine, then recently established. He asked

me to write an article for him, and I agreed to do so. I

had also arranged to write one for the Westminster on
" The Social Organism,"
terly on " Prison Ethics."  and  one  for  the  British  Quar

Most readers are, I suspect, weary of the analyses,

made for the purpose of showing the bearings of succes

sive essays on the general doctrine which occupied my

mind; but near as I am now to the end of the series,
I may be excused for continuing them. That the con

ception of the Social Organism is an evolutionary one,

is implied by the words ; for they exclude the notion of

manufacture or artificial arrangement, while they imply

natural development. Briefly expressed in Social Statics,

and having grown in the interval, the conception was

now to be set forth in an elaborated form. The leading

                            55

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1859-60

individual organism in these essential traits: -- that it
grows; that while growing it becomes more complex;
that while becoming complex its parts acquire increas
ing mutual dependence; and that its life is immense in

length compared with the lives of its component units.

It was pointed out that in both cases there is increasing
integration accompanied by increasing heterogeneity;

to which I might have added increasing definiteness,

had my ideas at that time been fully matured. The arti
cle appeared in January, 1860; and some attention was

drawn by a promulgation of ideas which to the average

mind seemed simply whimsical.
   The essay on " Prison Ethics," written at this time but

not published in the British Quarterly until the subse
quent July, though not evolutionary in aspect was evo
lutionary in spirit. Its conclusions were based on the
laws of life, considered first in themselves and then as
conformed to under social conditions. The right of so
ciety to coerce the criminal up to certain limits but not
beyond those limits, was a deduction. But the essen
tially evolutionary characteristic was the doctrine that
not only the ethically justifiable treatment but the treat
ment alone successful in reforming criminals, is that of
insisting on self-maintenance while they are under re

straint --keeping them subject to those requirements of

social life which they have not conformed to. The thesis
defended was that with criminals, as with all living be
ings, there will go on adaptation to circumstances if they
are forced to live under those circumstances: a corollary
from the doctrine of organic evolution.

   The brief paper on the " Physiology of Laughter "

which I wrote for Macmillan's Magazine, also partici

S6

/Et. 39-40]  A PLAN FIXED UPON

was evolutionary as being an explanation of laughter in
terms of those nervo-muscular actions which are dis
played everywhere throughout the animal kingdom from
moment to moment; and especially as using for a key

the law that motion follows the line of least resistance --

a law previously recognized as one needful to be taken
account of in the interpretation of evolutionary processes.

   While these articles were in hand, the Origin of Species

was published. That reading it gave me great satisfac

tion may be safely inferred. Whether there was any set

off to this great satisfaction, I cannot now say; for I
have quite forgotten the ideas and feelings I had. Up

to that time, or rather up to the time at which the papers
by Mr. Darwin and Mr. Wallace, read before the Lin-

naean Society, had become known to me, I held that the

sole cause of organic evolution is the inheritance of

functionally-produced modifications. The Origin of Spe- .

cies made it clear to me that I was wrong; and that the

larger part of the facts cannot be due to any such cause.

Whether proof that what I had supposed to be the sole

cause, could be at best but a part cause, gave me any

annoyance, I cannot remember; nor can I remember
whether I was vexed by the thought that in 1852 I had

failed to carry further the idea then expressed, that

among human beings the survival of those who are the

select of their generation is a cause of development. But

I doubt not that any such feelings, if they arose, were
overwhelmed in the gratification I felt at seeing the

theory of organic evolution justified. To have the theory

of organic evolution justified, was of course to get

further support for that theory of evolution at large with

             57

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                 [1859-60

up. Believing as I did, too, that right guidance, indi

vidual and social, depends on acceptance of evolutionary

views of mind and of society, I was hopeful that its ef

fects would presently be seen on educational methods,

political opinions, and men's ideas about human life.
   Obviously these hopes that beneficial results would

presently be wrought, were too sanguine. My confi

dence in the rationality of mankind was much greater
then than it is now.

   In a letter to my father dated January 20, occurs the

sentence -- " I shall send you something that will sur

prise you in a few days." This sentence referred to the

programme of the System of Philosophy, then in type.

  During the autumn of 1859 I abandoned all thought

of obtaining any official position which would give me

sufficient means while affording me a share of leisure.

What then was I to do?--How was I to execute my pro

ject? Among plans despairingly thought over there oc

curred to me that of issuing by subscription. Favour

able opinions were expressed by friends with whom I
discussed it-- among others by the Leweses. George
Eliot's diary shows that I dined with them at Wands

worth on November 19th; and I have a tolerably dis

tinct remembrance that we then talked the matter over.

The earliest impression I have of the programme  (which
                                                 , 1860:
is marked " revise ") is dated simply January
a blank for the day of the month being left until I had
obtained the criticisms of various friends -- Huxley,

Tyndall and others. Along with an outline of the pro

posed series of works, severally divided into their com

ponent parts, and each part briefly described, the pro

58

/£t. 39-40]  A PLAN FIXED UPON

  " It is proposed to publish in parts of from five to six sheets

octavo (eighty to ninety-six pages). These parts to be
issued quarterly; or as nearly so as is found possible. The
price per part to be half-a-crown ; that is to say, the four
parts yearly issued to be severally delivered, post free, to all
annual subscribers of ten shillings."

   A long delay occurred before general distribution of
the programme. An authoritative endorsement was

needful; and much time was occupied in obtaining
weighty names of first subscribers, to be printed on the
back. The cheerful aid of friends was afforded me --
Huxley being especially helpful; and in the course of
some six weeks, an imposing list was got together -- the
chief men of science, a considerable number of leading

men of letters, and a few statesmen. In Appendix A

will be found a reprint of this programme ; and with
it these names of sponsors. The date is March 27,

 1860.

   Comparison of it with the rough draft drawn up in
January, 1858, shows that while the outline of the scheme,
in so far as the component works are concerned, is sub
stantially the same; and that while, between the delin
eated contents of each volume in the one case and in the

other, there is in some cases a correspondence of a gen
eral kind and in other cases an approach to a specific
correspondence; there is an amount of difference show
ing that during the intervening two years the concep
tion had undergone a marked development. Growth of
the series from seven volumes to ten, had resulted from
expansion of the Principles of Biology from one volume
to two, and expansion of the Principles of Sociology from
one volume to three ; while within each volume the divi

             59

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                  [1859-60

of dealing with each subject in a systematic manner com

mon to them all.

I may remark here that though during these two years

there had thus been an extensive further evolution of the

original conception, the evolution which subsequently

took place, was but small. On comparing the volumes

as summarized in the printed programme, with the vol

umes as since published, it will be seen that the last cor

respond with the first, save by containing some relatively

small additions. In the Principles of Psychology there

has been introduced (but not until the edition of 1880)
                 "               "
a part entitled     Congruities      ;  while in the  Principles

of Sociology, beyond a change in the order of two of the

divisions, there has been introduced a division dealing

with Domestic Institutions; and there will, if I live to

complete the second volume, be introduced a division

dealing with Professional Institutions.

   The plan succeeded fairly well. Thanks, no doubt, to
the influential names attached to the circular, the issue

of it was followed by numerous responses. In the course

of the spring there came in between three and four hun
dred names of subscribers: the number finally reached
being over 440. Assuming my ability to write four num
bers per annum, and supposing that all the subscribers

paid their subscriptions (which a considerable propor
tion in such cases never do) the gross proceeds would
have been some £200 a year. From this, however, had

to be deducted the costs of printing, binding, and issu
ing; which would have reduced the proceeds to per

haps £120 or £130 a year. I dare say I should have

been sanguine enough to proceed on the strength of

                    60

/Et. 39-40]  A PLAN FIXED UPON

ceeds been in prospect. But there was an addition in

prospect.

  Some years previously I had made the acquaintance

of an American whose sympathies were enlisted on my
behalf by perusal of some of my books or essays-- Mr.
E. A. Silsbee of Salem, Mass. While yet the circular

was in its unfinished state, I sent to him a copy, accom

panied by the inquiry whether he thought that sub
scribers might be obtained in America. His reply, dated
February 14, held out much encouragement; and a
letter of March 6, written after the circular had been sent
to New York, contained a sentence the significance of
which was shown by subsequent events. The sentence

runs --" Mr. Youmans, a very popular and intelligent

lecturer on scientific subjects, well known by his works
on Chemistry, Physiology, &c., entered with great en
thusiasm into the project." Devoting himself with char

acteristic vigour to the furtherance of my scheme, this

previously-unknown friend succeeded in obtaining more
than two hundred subscribers.

   The relation thus initiated was extremely fortunate;

for Prof. Edward L. Youmans was of all Americans I

have known or heard of, the one most able and most
willing to help me. Alike intellectually and morally, he
had in the highest degrees the traits conducive to suc

cess in diffusing the doctrines he espoused; and from

that time to this he has devoted his life mainly in spread
ing throughout the United States the doctrine of evolu

tion. His love of wide generalizations had been shown
years before in lectures on such topics as the correlation

of the physical forces; and from those who heard him I

have gathered that, aided by his unusual powers of ex

             61

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1859-60

larger truths of science produced in him, was in a re
markable degree communicated to his hearers. Such

larger truths I have on many occasions observed are
those which he quickly seizes -- ever passing at once

through details to lay hold of essentials; and having

laid hold of them, he clearly sets them forth afresh in
his own way with added illustrations. But it is morally

even more than intellectually that he has proved him

self a true missionary of advanced ideas. Extremely
energetic -- so energetic that no one has been able to
check his over-activity-- he has expended all his powers
in advancing what he holds to be the truth; and not only

his powers but his means. It has proved impossible to

prevent him from injuring himself in health by his exer
tions; and it has proved impossible to make him pay
due regard to his personal interests. So that towards

the close of life he finds himself wrecked in body and

impoverished in estate by thirty years of devotion to
high ends. Among professed worshippers of humanity,

who teach that human welfare should be the dominant

aim, I have not yet heard of one whose sacrifices on

behalf of humanity will bear comparison with those of

my friend.
   Returning from this tribute of admiration, it remains

only to say that, the number of the American subscribers

added to that of the English ones, having produced a
total of about six hundred, my hopes appeared to be jus

tified, and I resolved to proceed.

  I was just free from all ties to periodicals. The last

of them had been an engagement to prepare for the
Westminster Rez'iew, an article on " Parliamentary Re

62

JEt. 39-40]  A PLAN FIXED UPON

lished in April. Years passed before I interrupted my

chief work to do anything more in the way of essay-

writing.

  I may fitly say a few words about this article; less be

cause of its evolutionary bearings than because of the

well-grounded fears expressed in it. Not, indeed, that

it  had no evolutionary bearings. Its      ultimate thesis   that
                                            the sphere of   gov
"   as fast as representation is extended

ernment must be contracted," which is a corollary from

the thesis upheld some years before, that representa

tive government is the best possible for the administra

tion of justice and the worst possible for everything else,

is a practical application of the general doctrine that

social progress is accompanied, and should be accom

panied, by increasing specialization of functions; and

this is an evolutionary doctrine. But that which may be

distinguished as the practical part of the article, was an

argument showing that unless with the extension of po

litical power there went such direct imposition of public

burdens as caused an unceasing consciousness of the

way in which public expenditure weighs upon each,

there would be an injurious increase of governmental

interference and a multiplication of governmental agen

cies. And it was contended that whereas in the past

the superior few had inequitably used their power in

such ways as indirectly to benefit themselves at the cost

of the inferior many; so the inferior many, becoming

predominant, would inequitably use their power in such

ways as indirectly to benefit themselves at the cost of

the superior few: such superior few being understood

to include not the socially superior only but also the su

             63

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1859-60

too, much sooner than I expected. And another exten

sion of the franchise since made, so great as entirely to
destroy the balance of powers between classes, and so
made as to dissociate the giving of votes from the bear
ing of burdens, will inevitably be followed by a still more
rapid growth of socialistic legislation.

  I was now just forty; and I calculated that at the rate
of progress specified in the circular, I should get through
the undertaking by the time I was sixty. It would have

been a sanguine anticipation even for one well in body
and brain; and for one in my state it was an absurd

anticipation.

   Indeed when I look back on all the circumstances, --
when I recall the fact that at my best I could work only
three hours daily, -- when I remember that besides hav
ing not unfrequently to cut short my mornings, I from
time to time had a serious relapse; I am obliged to admit

that to any unconcerned bystander my project must have
seemed almost insane. To think that an amount of

mental exertion great enough to tax the energies of one

in full health and vigour, and at his ease in respect of
means, should be undertaken by one who, having only

precarious resources, had become so far a nervous in

valid that he could not with any certainty count upon his

powers from one twenty-four hours to another!
   However, as the result has proved, the apparently un

reasonable hope was entertained, if not wisely, still for
tunately. For though the whole of the project has not

64



           PART VIII.

 XXXIII. Writing First Principles.

  XXXIV. An Autumn's Relaxations.
   XXXV. A Volume of the Biology.
  XXXVI. A Digression.
 XXXVII. Another Volume of the Biology.
XXXVIII. Impending Cessation.
  XXXIX. Sad Events.

     43


                 CHAPTER XXXIII.

              WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES.

                   1860 --62. Mt. 40 --42.

   Up to this date my life might fitly have been charac
terized as miscellaneous. Here it may not be amiss to

pause a moment and ask whether there was any rela
tion between this trait of it and the course subsequently
pursued.

   From the education ordinarily passed through, mine
differed by its comparative variety; and while lacking
most of the usual linguistic elements, it included a good
deal of physical, chemical, and biological knowledge not
commonly gained.

   Throughout the years passed in civil engineering
many phases of the profession occupied me. Beyond
plan-drawing and making designs of various kinds, there
came surveying and levelling, secretarial business, draft
ing of contracts, and over-seeing execution of them,
testing of locomotives, preparations of plans and sec
tions for Parliament, joined with superintendence of the
required staff and followed by attendance on Parliamen
tary Committees. And along with these sundry forms of
engineering activity, there went the occasional invention
of appliances and devising of methods.

   During a long unengaged interval, inventing and ex

                                                    67

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY           [1860-62

Some time was given to drawing and modelling. Geol

ogy and Botany had shares of attention. Several specu

lative scientific papers were published. The province of

Government was thought about and written about. And

a period of active political life was passed through.

    After entrance upon a literary career there came, if

not variety of occupations, yet variety of subjects treated.

With journalism was joined the writing on Political

Ethics; and political ethics presently led the way to

Psychology. Essays at that time and afterwards writ

ten, ranged so widely that they look extremely incon
gruous when bracketed ; as instance --" Over Legisla
tion " and "Gracefulness"; "Population" and
"            "  Manners " and " Development
"  Style ";  "  and " Laughter "; " Banking  of Species ";
   Geology                                   " and " Per

sonal Beauty"; "Trade Morals" and "The Nebular
Hypothesis "; " The Genesis of Science " and " Railway

Policy"; "The Shapes of Organisms" and "Parlia
mentary Reform "; " The Law of Progress " and " Types
                  "      " The Test of Truth " and " The
of  Architecture      ;  " Prison Discipline " and " The Use

Origin of Music ";

of Anthropomorphism," &c, &c.

   But now this miscellaneousness came to a close, and

there commenced something like unity of occupation. I

say something like; for though the topics to be succes

sively dealt with in developing the Synthetic Philosophy
were many in kind-- showing perhaps in this way the in

fluence of the preceding life --yet they derived coherence

from the unity of conception and method pursued

throughout; and to this extent the life became constant

instead of changeable.

    In one respect, indeed, the unsettledness continued;

                         68

JEr. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

variable. As I usually spent from two to three months

of the autumn away from London, regard for economy

made me give up whatever place I occupied, and on my

return to town there was generally some reason why it
seemed well to advertise afresh for accommodation: a

course which sometimes, though not always, led to
change of residence. After a short absence from town in
the spring, one of these changes took me to 18 Torring-
ton Square, Bloomsbury.

   Here it was that on the 7th of May 1860, I began my
undertaking; and here it was that I quickly furnished

justification to any who exclaimed against my folly in

attempting so great a task with my deranged health.

   Already in April the extra work which, during the

preceding months, had been entailed by the floating of

my project, had brought on a relapse, and I had to leave

town; first for a ramble in Surrey, whence, being com-

panionless, I returned in two days, and then for a so
journ in Derby. And now having, as I hoped, got again

into working order, and made a satisfactory commence

ment, I broke down before I had got through the first
chapter. A letter home of the 21st of May is dated
Brighton, where I had manifestly gone to recruit. " I

am very much better," says a note written from London

on the 26th, and which continues -- " I go to the Potters

in about a week, and shall doubtless progress there still

further. I do not think, however, that it will be prudent

to work hard enough to get out my first part in July."

Letters written from Standish show that I spent about ten
days there. On the 13th I departed for Llandudno, to join
my friends the Lotts; and I continued with them up to

             69

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

company with a Derby friend, had betaken themselves
to my father's favourite spot, Treport; and pressure, to

which I eventually yielded, was put upon me to follow.
  At Treport I resumed work to a small extent. One

sunny afternoon, on the grassy slope which runs up from
the town to the cliffs, might have been seen two figures,

one writing and the other reclining or lounging. They

were my father and myself; and the explanation was

that he had undertaken to play the part of amanuensis.
Indoors and outdoors, some little progress was made in

this way during the first week in July. But the place

did not on this occasion suit me; for the reason, I be
lieve, that whereas before I was high up above the sea,
I was now close down upon it. The result was that on
the nth of July I returned to London.

   Something like my ordinary state having been at last

regained, I wrote, or rather dictated, at my usual rate;

that is, for three hours daily. The MS. of No. 1 of my

serial was completed, partly in London and partly in

Derby, before the middle of September.

  A letter of the 19th of September is from Achranich,
where I had at that date been for a few days, and where
I had now another delightful sojourn of nearly a month.

   There were two other guests -- Mr. Arthur Hugh

Clough, the poet, and his wife, who was a niece of Mr.
Octavius Smith. The Bothie of Tober-na-Vuolich had

been lying about the house at Achranich during my pre

vious visits. I had already seen a little of its author in
London, and now I saw a good deal of him. Not, in

deed, that our intercourse was to much purpose in the

way of establishing an intimacy. He was a very re

70

JEt. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

share in general conversation. His face had a weary
expression which seemed to imply either chronic physi
cal discomfort or chronic mental depression -- an appar
ent depression which suggested the thought that he was
oppressed by consciousness of the mystery of things.
Of the ideas or sentiments he uttered no trace remains
with me. One thing only which he said do I remember ;

and this was a story concerning an ancestor of his.
While rambling in North Derbyshire, his father or

grandfather -- I forget which, -- was struck by the pictur-

esqueness of a gorge down which tumbled a small

stream. Turning to a man who was at hand, he inquired
its name. " Go it Clough " was the startling reply. The

explanation of the apparent insult was that the stream

was named " the Goit," and that " clough " is the North
Derbyshire word for a ravine.

   A two days' excursion of the whole party, family and

guests, was the only incident which broke the usual rou
tine of out-door sports and in-door pleasures. Some
dozen miles or so of mountain road, traversed by vehi
cles and horses, brought us to Strontian on Loch Sunart.
After a night spent there, a drive along the beautiful
shores of the loch, and then over the intervening coun
try till we came in sight of Loch Shiel, was followed by a

return to the shore of Loch Sunart at Salen. A boat

down the remainder of Loch Sunart and up Loch

Teachus, brought us back nearly to the boundary of the
estate: a scramble in the dusk over the intervening
moor, a moonlight row along Loch Arienas, and a drive
from Acharn, taking us home. The excursion was not
so delightful as that of the preceding year, but it has

             71

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

return I found waiting for me a packet of proofs; and

this recalls a typographical error contained in one of
them. Most authors occasionally have droll blunders
made by printers, and one such occurred in these early

proofs of First Principles. Where I had written --" the

daily verification of scientific predictions," the composi

tor had put --" the daily versification of scientific pre

dictions."

  After some ten days spent at Derby on my way, I

reached London again on the 22nd of October. Number

1 of my serial, greatly delayed by printing and postal de
linquencies, was on the eve of issue -- nearly three months

after the date I had originally hoped.
   Little work was done before I again left town. My

uncle William, the youngest of the brotherhood, whom

I had found unwell on my return from Scotland in Oc
tober, became seriously ill in November. I was in con

sequence called down to Derby and remained there till

his death, which occurred before the close of the month.

We had always been on amicable terms from the early

days when, to his prompt action, I owed the appoint

ment with which my engineering life commenced; and

though at issue on religious questions, there had been a

good deal of sympathy between us in our conversations

on general topics. But I was quite unprepared for the

distribution he made of his property. Appointing me
sole executor, his will, making small bequests to other

relatives, left to me the remainder of what he possessed,

subject to annuities to my father and to an old servant.

I believe there were two motives for this course. An

eminently friendly man--so much so that he was habit

72

.St. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

and help in their affairs-- he was by implication always
solicitous for the welfare of relatives, and ever ready to
aid. But in proportion to the warmth of this feeling

appeared to be the warmth of his resentment when of
fended; and his resentment was persistent. Some year

or two before his death there had arisen a family differ

ence which had, I believe, much to do with the provi

sions made in his will. My father, however, was of opin
ion that another motive was dominant. He told me that
his brother was solicitous for the credit of the family,

and probably thought that the arrangement he made
would be most conducive to it.

   But whatever may have caused this distribution of his

property, not many months elapsed before I became

aware that it would have important effects on my career;

for experience soon proved that I had miscalculated my

resources. While my scheme was still only in contem

plation, I was told by a competent judge that there would
be great difficulty in getting in the subscriptions; and I

quite counted upon suffering some loss from non-pay

ment. I was not, and never had been, among those

who labour under the delusion that intellectual culture

produces moral elevation; and did not expect to find
that those who took in my serial were more honest than
uneducated people. The defaulters were, however, more

numerous than I expected. I found that which I was told

others had found:-- a moiety pay promptly; others after

the publishers send them reminders ; not a few, being
several subscriptions in arrear, require repeated notices
from the publishers before they discharge their obliga

tions; and a considerable class, deaf to all representa

tions, never pay at all for the parts sent to them year

             73

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1860-62

Having started with a number of subscribers which I

concluded would suffice to pay costs of printing &c. and
leave a moderate return (a number which, not counting

Americans, eventually rose to 430), I was unprepared for

the amount of loss suffered.
   The extent of these defalcations was such that in the

absence of other resources I should have had to stop

before the completion of my first volume.

The end of 1860 and the beginning of 1861, passed

without any incident calling for mention beyond an ill

ness of my father. Being a nervous subject, he regarded

this with greater alarm than it called for. I took him to

Brighton, and stayed with him there a good deal during

parts of February and March; and he afterwards passed
some time with me in London, where he recovered.

Notwithstanding consequent hindrances to my work,

it progressed satisfactorily; and, escaping nervous re
IIIIIlapses, I managed to issue Parts
    and                                at the ap
pointed times --intervals of three months. At the end

of March, however, my head gave way again and I had

to desist. Early in April ten days were spent at Stan-

dish, with pleasure and doubtless with benefit, after

which I went home for a time. I was not wholly idle
during these visits. I had decided to re-publish, in the

form of a volume, the four articles on Education which

had originally been contributed to the Westminster, the

North British, and the British Quarterly Reviews. The

revision of these articles, commenced before leaving

town and finished while at Derby, was in considerable

measure carried on out of doors. I rambled into the

country; looked out every now and then for a sheltered

74

JEt. 40-42]     WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

pages; eventually reached some village where a coun

try inn furnished me with a meal; and then, after a rest,

returned home.                             work which

  In this way I got through a little easy  and after I

otherwise would have been impracticable;

completed returned to London.
             it,
                a
                                    a
                                                        is

                                                          I
   More than month was passed there before was able
to resume the writing of First Principles; and then the

resumption was under difficulties, as shown by the fol

lowing paragraph from letter to my father dated Lon

don, 14 June, 1861.
   " am much better this week and am doing some work.

am doing in very odd way--uniting dictating and rowing.
  take my amanuensis on the Regent's Park water, row vig
I

     I

                 it

                              5
                               a

                                                                               a

                                                                         It
                                                                         I
orously for minutes and dictate for quarter of an hour;

then more rowing and more dictating alternately.              an

swers capitally."

    Soon afterwards was led into another way of keep
                   I

ing off cerebral congestion. Mr. F. McLennan, at that
                          J.

                                          a
                                                           a
time little known, but afterwards well known as the

author of Primitive Marriage, &c., was candidate for

    think) professorship at Edinburgh, and wrote to(Ia
me for testimonial: directing my attention to cera

tain article of his in the Encyclopaedia Britannica as af

fording me means of estimating his competence. Re
             a

membering the disaster which had resulted when read
                      a

                                              I
up with the view of writing testimonial for Professor

Fraser,  I      declined, after giving my reasons. Mr.

McLennan took my refusal in good part; and, having

himself suffered somewhat from an overworked brain,

recommended to me racquets as an exercise. Accepting

                      75

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

at The Belvidere, Pentonville, I betook myself thither

with my amanuensis every morning, and after a game

or two adjourned to an adjacent room where I dictated

awhile, and then, before head-symptoms set in, returned

to the court for another game or two; and so on all

the morning.

  Though in this way I got through two or three para
graphs daily without making myself worse, I failed to
get better; and it became manifest that I should be un

able to issue my next part at the appointed date. It be

came manifest, too, that working against time would

never do: the endeavour to keep to fixed intervals must

be abandoned. Accordingly I issued a notice to the sub

scribers stating that the next number would not appear

at the end of the three months ; and stating, further, that

for the future the successive numbers would be severally
issued as soon as completed, without regard to dates.

    A few lines to my mother, dated Oban, July 9, show
that I was unexpectedly detained there by the delay in

the arrival of my friends, who had again kindly invited

me to visit them. Still below my ordinary state of health,

and yet wishing not to let my time pass wholly without

result, I sought out a youth of some eighteen or so,

sufficiently educated to serve as amanuensis, and when

the time came took him over with me to lodge at Loch

Aline, whence he came to me daily. A letter dated 28
July, written to my father, then in France, says: --

   " I have been at Ardtornish now rather more than a week.

In consequence of the Smiths not having arrived, to my

great dismay, I had to spend a fortnight in Oban and the

neighbourhood. This did me harm, as solitude always does ;

76

Sx. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

better now than I have been; and the delightful life here will
doubtless soon set me right. I have got a decent amanuensis

(this being Sunday he is not available) and have done a little
work. . . . The writing and boating answers very well, and

is very pleasant.                                   average
   Our weather here is very agreeable -- above the
                                                    All day
of Scotch weather; and the scenery is charming.

long there is some beautiful effect on mountains or sea to look

at ; and the sun-sets are magnificent.

  I have set up three aquaria, which give great interest ; and
the microscope [one which I had bought just before leaving

town] also is a source of amusement. The dredge is now
made, but we have not used it. The coast is very rich, and

I expect to get many novelties. . . .
  I went out fishing the evening I arrived, and caught a

salmon the first thing. Since then the river has been too

low."

I give these extracts at length because they conve

niently serve to introduce some explanations and com

ments. The first concerns the apparent change of name

from Achranich to Ardtornish. At the time when Mr.

Smith bought the estate of Achranich, the two estates,

Acharn and Ardtornish, lying on either side of were
            a
                                                             it,
owned by Mr. Sellar (father of the present Professor
Sellar of Edinburgh, Mr. Alexander Craig Sellar, m.p.,

and other sons), who was desirous of purchasing Ach

ranich and uniting the three estates. He hesitated too

long, hoping to get reduction of price, and Achranich

was unawares bought over his head, to his great dis

gust. Some years afterwards his death brought the es

tates of Acharn and Ardtornish into the market; and

after considerable delay they were, at the close of 1860,

purchased by Mr. Smith: the three united estates being

            77

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

house (part of which, as before described, is visible some
distance behind the ruins of the castle) was more con
venient than the old house at Achranich; and as the new
house was still in course of erection; it was decided to
occupy the Ardtornish house till the new house was

complete.

   It was to the views from the Ardtornish house that
the expression " charming scenery," used above, re

ferred. Probably I was thinking of a certain bright

morning in August. From the smoothly shorn lawn

with its flower beds, I was looking over the carefully

trimmed hedge, to the mountains on the other side of the

Sound, and marking how the cultivated beauty of the
one served as a foil to the wild beauty of the other, when
there came to me through the open window the first

movement from one of Beethoven's finest sonatas: a
favourite movement which has since never failed to re
call the scene. But there is a still more vivid recollec
tion dating back to one of the evenings of that year.

The western part of the Sound of Mull trends a good
deal towards the north; so that during the summer
months the Sun sets over the hills at its further end.
On the evening in question the gorgeous colours of

clouds and sky, splendid enough even by themselves to
be long remembered, were reflected from the surface
of the Sound, at the same time that both of its sides,

along with the mountains of Mull, were lighted up by the
setting Sun; and, while I was leaning out of the win

dow gazing at this scene, music from the piano behind
me served as a commentary. The exaltation of feeling

produced was unparalleled in my experience ; and never
since has pleasurable emotion risen in me to the same

78

/Et. 40-42] WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

   Other words in the foregoing extract recall the fact

that during my stay, what little writing I did was broken

by exercise, now on the land and now on the water:

sometimes rambling along the shore of Loch Aline and

sitting down occasionally to dictate a few sentences, or

along the Ardtornish cliffs, where the waterfalls sug

gested one of the illustrations used in the chapter I was
             the " Direction              "
writing  on                   of  Motion      ;  and  at other

times boating-- either paddling about in Ardtornish Bay

or rowing from Achranich to the ferry, and dictating

while I rowed.

Filled with many pleasures and with little work, the

time thus passed till the end of August.

   The dates of letters imply that, after spending some

thing like a fortnight at home on my way south, I went
to London. A letter written from 18 Torrington Square,
on September 21, 1861, says: --

   " I reached town safely on Wednesday, and you will be

surprised to hear left it again next day. Happening to call

on Lewes, I was induced by him to join him in a country

ramble. We started forthwith for Reigate, and spent Friday

and Saturday in walking through a charming country; both

of us returning much the better for the excursion.

   I had eighty-eight replies to my advertisement for an
amanuensis. You see I have found one; and I shall com

mence work in earnest tomorrow."

   The country ramble in question was from Reigate to

Dorking, where we slept; thence next day to Ockley,
where we slept; and then back over Leith Hill. Though

not the last of the excursions we made together, this

                              79

                     AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY         [1860-62

of my abnormal state. In a letter of the 26th I read: --
I" am much better, and doing my work (on the water)
              "
with comfort      :  the result  being  that  my next number

was issued in November, after having been delayed some

four or five months.

   Mention of its issue recalls an incident affecting my
finances, which should be named. In a preceding chapter

I have stated that Chapman, with whom I had pub

lished Social Statics, had, after sinking a good deal of

money, been finally compelled to give up his publishing

business. It was eventually taken by a Mr. Manwaring
--a young man quite inadequately prepared, as it turned

out. The Principles of Psychology and a volume of Es

says, &c., had been published for me by Messrs. Long

man; but my business transactions with the firm had

been such as rendered me undesirous of continuing

them, and still more undesirous of extending them. Con

sequently I put the issue of my serial into the hands of

Mr. Manwaring. It proved an unfortunate step, for

there soon came a crash. A letter to my father written
on 22nd January, 1862, says: --

   " You will see by the enclosed that I have succeeded

(though after some difficulty) in coming to an arrangement

with Williams & Norgate. Everyone agrees that they are

the best people I could have. I shall be very glad to get out
of Manwaring's hands; but I expect to lose by him consider

ably."

   This expectation was fulfilled. By Mr. Manwaring

were of course received the amounts paid by subscribers,
and of the sum accruing from them which was in his
hands at the time of his failure (between forty and fifty

pounds) I believe no part ever reached me. As I was

                                 80

/ET. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

hard that I should lose also a portion of the amount de

rived from those who paid. In the absence of other re

sources the result might have been serious.

The winter months and those of the early spring

brought no events worthy of record. In a letter of 23rd
January I speak of myself as "still improving" and
" pretty                                  "
             nearly  up  to  my  average      :  the effect being

that now, after this relapse so long in being recovered

from, my work was progressing with but little hindrance.

   Certain additions to my social circle must here be
named. For some years Mr. and Mrs. George Busk

had been among my acquaintances, and before 1862 I
had come to count them among my friends --friends with

whom the intimacy grew gradually closer. Retiring in
nature, and consequently much less known to the world
at large than to the scientific world, Mr. Busk, not long

afterwards elected President of the College of Surgeons,

was one who devoted his leisure (for he had given up
practice) to science and to the business of various scien

tific societies in which he took an active part. And Mrs.
Busk, scientifically cultivated in a degree rare among

ladies, united with her culture other mental attractions,

which gave a never failing interest to her conversation.
In after years many pleasant times, short and long, were

spent with them and their four daughters.

  On several occasions, at their house and elsewhere, I

had met at dinner one whose name has since become fa

miliar to most; and the result was the commencement

of an intimacy, as witness the following passage in a

letter to my father: --
  " As you see by this note, I have made some new friends.

The writer, well known in the world of science, is the eldest

             49 81

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

son of Sir John Lubbock, whose name you know very well

as an astronomer. I spent a very pleasant two days with

them and met Sir John Lubbock there at dinner. . . Last

night I had a note from Mrs. Lubbock asking me to go down

to them again on the 13th of April."

   At that time Mr. and Mrs. Lubbock lived at Lammas,
Chislehurst. Many Saturday afternoons and Sundays

were afterwards agreeably spent there; and when, a few

years later, High Elms, the family seat, descended along
with the title to Mr. Lubbock, visits of this kind were

continued. Other guests, coming from the worlds of

science, literature, and politics, while they made these

occasions interesting, made them also somewhat too ex

citing: especially as all present were habitually drawn
out by Lady Lubbock's vivacity and Sir John's versa
tility. Two unusually bad nights were commonly en

tailed on me ; and consequently, as time went on, I had

more and more to avoid these and other such Sunday
visits into the country: a further reason for doing this
being that on each occasion the Monday morning's work

was in large measure sacrificed.

   Here the mention of Sir John Lubbock's versatility,

conspicuous enough even to readers of newspapers and
still more conspicuous to those who know all his many
activities, recalls an incident which illustrates his re
markable facility in carrying on many occupations. The
incident occurred some four years or so later, at a time

when I had been investigating the circulation in plants,

and had made a number of preparations for the micro

scope. These I took with me one Saturday to High

Elms, thinking they would prove of interest. On the
Monday morning early, Sir John was out cub-hunting

82

JEt. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

his return he made a diagram for a lecture he was about

to give; then he examined under the microscope the

preparations I had brought; and finally he came to

breakfast. After breakfast there was the drive to the

station; a rapid glance through the Times on the way

up to town ; some pages of a book which he had brought
with him; and at length came the business of the day,

itself sufficiently varied --banking, probably a board-

meeting of some kind, political business, attendance at

a scientific society: perhaps after a dinner party. And

the remarkable peculiarity was that with all these many

and varied occupations he never seemed in a hurry; but,

by his habitual calm, gave the impression that he was

quite at leisure.

  On looking back to my social life at this time, I see that

its excitements were becoming occasionally too much

for me, as witness some sentences in a letter home dated

15th of April: --
   " Dining out three days running is always more than I can

stand with impunity ; and I am hence somewhat below par
this morning, but not so much so as I expected. In conse
quence of this accumulation of excitements I had to excuse

myself from the Coopers' invitation, which was for Friday.

As I told Mrs. Cooper, I dare not accept. I shall call on

them in the course of this week."

Let me add, however, that I have often found dining

out in moderation, beneficial rather than injurious -- es

pecially in a lively circle, as I think I have before re

marked. My experiences to a considerable extent jus
tify the advice which Sir Henry Holland told me he
gave to his dyspeptic patients. He recommended them

             83

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

Charles, his father's eldest son, had recently obtained --

a post in the Post Office I was about to say, but the
cacophony stopped me; and then I was about to say, an

office in the Post Office, which is nearly as bad; let me
say-- a place in the Post Office. Chiefly, I believe, for

his benefit, they removed from Wandsworth into town,

and took a house in Blandford Square. From time to

time I spent an evening with them there --always pleas
antly, of course. Occasionally Lewes and I and another

friend of theirs, amused ourselves by singing glees.

George Eliot, however, never joined us: why, I do not

know, for her voice would greatly have improved the

harmony.

   A change of residence was made towards the end of

February. I removed to 29 Bloomsbury Square. The

house was a good one, having large rooms and being in

other ways desirable. Here I remained for the rest of
the season ; and here, before the end of June, I com

pleted First Principles.
   Am I about to write an imaginary review of the work,

as of two preceding works? No: like reasons do not

exist. The motive for giving, in the manner adopted,

an account of Social Statics, was that the connexion be

tween its ideas and the ideas which preceded and suc
ceeded them, might be exhibited; and it seemed the more

needful thus to exhibit them because, as I have for many

years been deterred by consciousness of its defects from
issuing new editions of the work, it is difficult of access.

Similarly with The Principles of Psychology. Save in a

few public libraries, no one can now find a copy of the

first edition; and only, therefore, by the help of the out

84

/Et. 40-42]        WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

antecedent and subsequent phases of thought, as well

as of its divergence from contemporary opinion. But in

First Principles, which from its date of publication has

continued in successive editions to be readily accessible,

there is exhibited, not a stage in the development of

the doctrine, but the developed doctrine itself. Though

an unlooked for evolution of considerable importance

subsequently took place, as will hereafter be shown, yet

the system had now so far approached its final shape that

description of it as one of the stages passed through

would be superfluous.

   But, though I do not intend either to outline the con

tents of the book or to pass any criticisms upon       it iIt,find

occasion to make some comments partly concerning the             it
                          a:
reception met with and partly concerning my entirelya
             a it
erroneous anticipations.

Unlike book of travels, or gossiping biography,

or volume of Court scandal, or fresh translation of
a

some classical author, or the account of some bloody cam

paign, or new speculation concerning the authorship of
             aa
Junius, or discussion of Queen Mary's amours, of
fered no temptation to the writer of reviews in literary

journals; and hence, as might have been expected,

was comparatively little noticed. Passed over altogether

by some critical organs, got in some others the brief
                          it it
                                                    a
est recognition; as, for instance, in the Spectator, which

gave to one of those paragraphs of score of lines in
   I
                          dismisses ephemeral books.
       it
small type, in which

While was not much surprised at this, my surprise was

considerable on finding that in most cases the important

part of the book was ignored, and that such notice as

was taken, was taken of the part which regarded as
                          85

                                        I

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1860-62

 I Years before, when there took possession of me the
project of developing into a System of Philosophy the
conception briefly and crudely set forth in the essay on

"Progress: its Law and Cause," I saw that it would

be needful to preface the exposition by some chapters

setting forth my beliefs on ultimate questions, metaphys

ical and theological; since, otherwise, I should be

charged with propounding a purely materialistic inter
pretation of things. Hence resulted the first division --
" The Unknowable." My expectation was that having

duly recognized this repudiation of materialism, joined

with the assertion that any explanation which may be
reached of the order of phenomena as manifested to us
throughout the Universe, must leave the Ultimate Mys

tery unsolved, readers, and by implication critics, would
go on to consider the explanation proposed. To me it
seemed manifest that the essential part of the book -- the
doctrine of Evolution -- may be held without affirming
any metaphysical or theological beliefs; and though, to

avoid the ascription of certain beliefs of these classes

which I do not hold, I thought it prudent to exclude
them, I presumed that others, after noting the exclu

sion of them by the first division of the work, would
turn their thoughts chiefly to the second division.
Nothing of the kind happened. Such attention as was

given was in nearly all cases given to the agnostic view

which I set forth as a preliminary. The general theory

which the body of the book elaborates was passed over or
but vaguely indicated. And during the five and twenty

years which have since elapsed, I have nowhere seen a

brief exposition of this general theory.
   It might have been not unreasonably supposed that an

86

JEt. 40-42]  WRITING FIRST PRINCIPLES

displayed by existences of all orders, would have re
ceived the amount of consideration required for deciding
on its probable truth or probable falsehood; seeing that
if false its falsity ought to be shown, and if true it should
enter as an important factor in men's conceptions of the
world around them. But it did not seem so to those who

             87

                     CHAPTER XXXIV.

                 AN AUTUMN'S RELAXATIONS.

                         1862. Mt. 42.

  " Well, it is a great satisfaction to think that the

doctrine is now safely set forth, whatever happens to

me," I remarked to a friend after First Principles was
published ; and I doubt not that this satisfaction, partly

personal but largely impersonal, added to the zest with

which I entered upon the relaxations of the summer and

autumn.

  I say advisedly the summer and autumn. The year

1862 was the year of the second International Exhibi

tion ; and of course, as soon as I was at leisure, I devoted

a good deal of attention to it. My father, and afterwards
my mother, came up to town; and days were spent there
in showing them the things of chief interest. Then there
arrived the Lotts and other country friends, to whom also

I occasionally played the part of guide. Naturally the

pleasures given were not so keen as those given by the
first Exhibition ; but still they were great.

  On the 10th of July I was at Llandudno with the Lotts.

We made a fortnight's stay there, during which we one
day picnic'd at the Aber Falls. On the left hand, the
falls are flanked by a spur of Carned David (or is it
Carned Llewellyn?) ; and this, in the course of the after

noon, Lott and I climbed. The climb had a sequence, as

                                               88

JEt. 42]        AN AUTUMN'S RELAXATIONS

" We made a mountain ramble two days ago, and I found

it did me more good than anything since I have been here.

ISo I propose to have a course of mountain rambles.  am

moderately well but not brilliant in condition."

  The result was that, on our return to Derby, I shortly

started on a pedestrian fishing tour in Scotland.

   As far as Oban and the lower part of the Caledonian

Canal, I kept to familiar routes ; but at Invergarry I left

the steam-boat, having decided to explore the west and

north of Ross.

The remainder of my first day, during which I stopped

here and there to make a few casts for trout in the Garry,

brought me to Tomdoun Inn ; and on the next day,

Sunday, walking up the rest of Glengarry and down

Glen Quoich, I reached Loch Hourn-head. Loch Hourn

is the grandest of the Scotch lochs ; and though the part

seen in this descent to it is not the best, it delighted me so

much that my pleasure became vocal. Perhaps it would

not have done so had I known what awaited me. To the

name Loch Hourn-head was joined on my map one of the

little circles which usually implies at least a village hav

ing an inn, if not a larger place. I found, however, that

besides some tumble-down fishermen's cottages the

only house was a keeper's lodge. Here I was taken in

by favour, and had to put up with meagre fare and

rude accommodation : a damp bed being part of it.

Fortunately I had provided myself with a pocket-

waterproof, and here, as at various places stopped at

in my tour, this befriended me: on some occasions

keeping off the rain by day,           on other occasions,
                a
                                  it,
served, when used as sheet, to keep off the damp by

                89

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862

  In the course of the evening I said that on the mor
row I intended to cross over into Glen Shiel. My host

expressed his fear that he would be unable to give me

a guide, as they were busy with the hay. I slighted the
notion that I needed a guide: saying that I was accus

tomed to Scotch mountains. Next morning proved

fine; and the keeper, admitting that I should perhaps

be able to find my way, directed me where to ford the

stream which drains Glen Quoich. In an hour or so, I
reached the top of the mountain-ridge whence I ex

pected to look down on Glen Shiel and the high road

running through it. To my astonishment I found be

low me a bare valley with no trace of road or human

habitation. The map, which showed a single range of

mountains between Glen Quoich and Glen Shiel, had
deceived me : there were two ranges. Had the summits

of the hills become clouded I should not have known
where I was, on descending. Fortunately the day con

tinued fine. Keeping my bearings pretty accurately, I
ascended the second ridge, and then, as I expected, saw

Glen Shiel. During my scramble down a steep hill side

covered with heather so deep that I could not see my
footing, I twice slipped one of my legs into a crevice

between rocks and might readily have broken it. Had

I done so, I should most likely have died there. When
I got safely on to the high road I became conscious of

the risk that is run by one who, leaving a place to which

he will not return, traverses alone a wild tract of country
on the way to a place where no one expects him. In case

of accident he is not missed, and no search is made. An

other thing struck me. Joining my experiences in

Switzerland with the experience I had just had, I was

90

JEt.42]  AN AUTUMN'S RELAXATIONS

the makers and publishers of guide-books. I suspect

that from time to time lives are lost, and every year

many illnesses caused, in consequence of their misdirec

tions.

   A night passed at Shiel Inn was followed by a day

passed in fishing the river which runs down the Glen.
Half a dozen or more sea-trout rewarded my efforts ; but
the water was far too low for good fishing and the inn

was uncomfortable, so that I was not tempted to stay. A

delightful sunny walk along the picturesque shore of

Loch Duich carried me the following morning as far as

Loch Alsh Ferry, and thence to Balmacarra. A fishing

ramble filled the next day. On the morrow a pleasant
walk over the intervening hills brought me to Loch

Carron ferry, and a further walk to Jeantown. The morn
ing after found me on the other side of the ridge dividing

Loch Carron from the valley which skirts the Applecross

mountains --strange looking, and one of them especially

remarkable: a mountain situated in the centre of an

amphitheatre of precipices, from which it has evidently

been cut out by glacier-action. That evening I reached

Shieldag, a dreary little fishing hamlet on the shore of

Loch Torridon. The western side of Ross is not much

frequented by tourists, and probably I was the first that

season who had stopped at the miserable little inn. They

gave me a bedroom so    damp that the paper hung from
the walls in festoons.
                        " A sabbath day's journey " to

Kinloch Ewe was instructive, as well as picturesque in

scenery. The doctrine of denudation receives in these

regions striking confirmations. On all sides the moun

tains, consisting the greater part of the way up of, I

think, dull red sandstone, are capped with quartz rock.

                        91

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862

trict ; and these islands of quartz on the mountain tops,

have been left there by the eroding agencies which cut
out the wide and deep valleys between. Then, among
further objects of geological interest is " the valley of a
thousand hills " : such being, it is said, the literal mean

ing of the Gaelic name. It contains a vast moraine. An

ancient glacier, bearing on its surface many separate lines
of debris, must have paused from time to time in the
course of its slow retreat, so as to deliver each line of
debris for a long interval on the same spot : thus forming

a heap.

   A day at Kinlochewe was passed in trying to take some
sea-trout out of Loch Maree; but as I lacked a boat,

the attempt failed entirely. Next day left behind it two
memories. The road to Gairloch runs along the shore
of Loch Maree ; and, keeping in view the imposing Ben
Sleoch on the right, passes on the left, after two or three
miles, the mouth of a valley which runs away inland.
Some miles down this valley stands a mountain of sub-
conical shape, the sides of which are channeled by water

courses. If, imagining these water-courses, deeply cut

into the rock, to have originally run straight down, it be

supposed that some power adequately great gave the
whole mountain a twist round its vertical axis, so as to

change these straight water-courses into spiral ones, an

idea will be gained of its structure. A sketch of this

mountain still exists among my papers. Some miles

further on, where there lies between the road and the
side of the loch a low bit of rough land, some adjacent
cottagers, while digging out peat, had brought into view
a large surface of granite, not simply rounded, but re
taining the polish given to it by the glacier that once

92

JEt. 42]  AN AUTUMN'S RELAXATIONS

preserved by the overlying peat for--how long shall we

say ? perhaps 50,000 years.

   At the end of one of those days, common in mountain

ous countries, during which one is frequently tempted by

a gleam of sunshine to take off one's waterproof, and then,

ten minutes after, by a sudden shower compelled to put

it on again, I reached the Gairloch Hotel ; and thence, the

morning after, departed for Poolewe, there to await, in a
dreary little inn, the expedition of the next day--the
most serious in the course of my tour. Ullapool on Loch

Broom was the nearest stopping place on the northern
coast of Ross. Between it and Poolewe was a wild coun
try traversed by a bad road, with no place where rest or

refreshment could be had. But I had either to go on to
Ullapool or to return the way I came, which I was

reluctant to do.

   Hiring a boat down Loch Ewe as far as the point at
which my route diverged from its shore, and bidding

good morning to the boatmen, I commenced my solitary
walk of, I suppose, over thirty miles : stopping after some

hours to take my meagre mid-day meal of boiled herrings

and bread which I had brought with me. The monotony

of the day was beguiled somewhat by the scenery, or

perhaps I should say rather by the striking geological

traits it presented: especially those of immense glacier-

action. I passed over a ridge of hills, probably some four

or five hundred feet high, on the top of which all the

rocks were rounded ; showing that in ancient times the

glaciers which had filled the adjacent valleys had also

covered this ridge, to a depth, probably, of some hun

dreds of feet. Late in the afternoon I reached the shore

of Little Loch Broom. Here, to cut off a portion of the

          93

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862

however, having an experience of Celtic indolence. The

boat was lying on the beach half full of water. The man

took out the plug, and he and his daughter stood idly by,
waiting until, by a stream the thickness of one's finger,
the water should escape. He seemed quite unconcerned
when I, in a fit of exasperation, seized the baler and began

to empty the boat myself. Shortly after came what

might have ended in disaster. By the people of some

dilapidated cottages on the opposite shore, I was directed

into a path which went over the high moor to Loch
Broom. This path continued fairly visible for a time;

but, as I got on to the flat top of the moor or mountain
bog (for it was entirely formed of deep peat), I found it

traversed in all directions by large fissures which the

water had made in draining away --fissures three or four
feet wide and as deep or deeper, over which I had con
tinually to leap. It was in short a bog full of crevasses,
with bottoms of soft-peat mud, out of which I should
not easily have got had I fallen in. As the even

ing was coming down rapidly and the path was no

longer discernible, I became somewhat fearful of the
result; but fortunately I got across before it be

came dark, and descended to Loch Broom and to Ulla

pool.

  Letters show that I had intended to go as far north as

Loch Assynt in Sutherlandshire ; but my companionless

excursion, though enjoyable at the beginning, was get

ting wearisome, and I doubt whether I should have ful

filled my intention even had nothing occurred to prevent

me. But something did occur. A letter which I found

waiting for me at Ullapool made me turn my face south,

and travel as fast as coach, railway, and steamboat would

94

JEt. 42]  AN AUTUMN'S RELAXATIONS

The contents of the letter which so precipitately

changed my course, may be inferred from the following
                                                   17th: --
few lines written home, dated   Glasgow,  August   starting
" Mr. and Mrs. Youmans are                am just
                                come. I

off with them for a few days. You will probably see me

early next week."

Professor Youmans, who from the outset became so

ardent an adherent of mine, and then, as always, was

prepared for any amount of labour on my behalf, had

come over to England with his wife (being then recently

married), partly as he told me to see the Great Exhibi

tion of 1862, and partly to consult with me concerning

the management of my affairs in the United States.

Our conversations were carried on in the course of

three days spent in taking these new friends round to the

chief places of interest that were easily accessible. Edin

burgh, of course, came in for immediate attention: the

chief streets, Calton Hill, The Castle, and Holyrood

being visited. I was but a poor cicerone for them, however,
as measured by ordinary standards ; for I could tell them
nothing about the historical associations. I have a vague

recollection of amusing Professor Youmans by my re

sponse to some remark or question coming from our guide

at Holyrood -- " I am happy to say I don't know." Prob

ably the remark or question referred to Queen Mary. On

this, as on kindred occasions, I thus implied my satisfac

tion, partly in having used time and brain-space for

knowledge better worth having, and partly in expressing

my small respect for gossip about people of no intrinsic

worth, whether dead or living.

Of course something of Scottish scenery had to be

shown ; and as my friends could not spare time for any

                   95

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862

ists' round --by Callander to Loch Katrine ; thence to

Inversnaid ; across Loch Lomond to Tarbet ; and from
that place to Arrochar on Loch Long. The night being
passed there, we went by steamboat next morning to
Greenock, where we parted; they for London on their
way to the continent and I, in the course of the day, for

Derby.

   After a fortnight at home and a few days spent with
the Brays at Coventry, I returned to London -- not indeed
to my previous abode ; for I found there no fit accommo

dation. A letter dated 15 Sept. shows that I was settled
in Gloucester Square, Hyde Park. A few weeks' expe

rience, however, so dissatisfied me with the management

of the house that I decided upon migrating. Before I

had found another suitable place Mr. Silsbee, an Ameri

can gentleman named in a preceding chapter, who was

about to spend the winter in the south of France, pressed
me to go as far as Paris with him. Being under obliga
tion to him, and having work enough to occupy me in

revising while away, I consented, and we departed on the

17 Oct.

  Of incidents during this visit to Paris I recall but one.

This was a discussion with Mr. Silsbee in the Louvre

before a landscape by Rubens (I think), rendered partly

by time, and partly by the artist, unlike anything ever

seen --especially in atmospheric effect ; while it was also
extremely unpicturesque in composition. To me it seemed

a picture to be glanced at and passed by ; but from Mr.

Silsbee it called forth much admiration. Even more than

ourselves the Americans are affected by the appearance

of antiquity : so much so, in some cases, that I heard an

96

JEt. 42)  AN AUTUMN'S RELAXATIONS

castles and abbeys is not worth living in. And in still
greater degrees than ourselves, they are thus led to con
found those extrinsic traits of objects which show an
tiquity with those intrinsic traits which characterize them
as works of art.

   Little given to mental analysis, most people fail to dis

criminate among the causes of their pleasures --or rather,

never try to distinguish ; and hence ascribe to an ancient
work of art itself, the reverential sentiments which its age
and its traditional repute arouse in them. But judgments
swayed by these sentiments are anything but trustworthy.
The one case in which something like measure is possible
-- that of relative strength -- shows clearly how untrue are
men's estimates of the past compared with the present.
And doubtless the bias which has so conspicuously per
verted current opinion in a matter concerning which
there ought to have been the least liability to mistake, has
perverted it in other matters, and among them in matters
of art.

   One may say with some approach to truth that on art
questions men's judgments have been paralyzed by
authority and tradition as they have been on religious
questions. There is reason for hoping, however, that as
the paralysis is diminishing in respect of the last it will

          50 97

                     CHAPTER XXXV.

                A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY.

                     1862 --64. Alt. 42 --44.

   On my return from Paris, some time in the first week

of November, I took up my abode at 6 Hinde Street,

Manchester Square, -- a house which has since been de
stroyed in the formation of a new street. Here I re
mained during the winter and early spring.

   Is it really a fact that women have better intuitions
into character than men have? That they are quicker to
divine other's moods of mind, there is, I think, good

reason for believing, as I have pointed out in the Study

of Sociology; and it seems almost an implication that if
they perceive more truly the passing mental states in
those they observe, they also perceive more truly their
permanent mental states or established natures. Yet

when we remember how multitudinous are the cases in
which women are deceived by smooth manners and pretty
speeches, we cannot but hesitate about admitting this
implication. May not the truth rather be that men and
women differ, not so much in these intuitions as in the
readiness with which they accept and act upon them?

The lines -- " I do not like you Dr. Fell," etc., point to a
distinction between the two. Speaking generally, women
do not question the worth of the impressions made on

                                              98

^Et. 42-44]    A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

doubt --often think the feelings produced in them are

merely prejudices, and consequently decide to wait for

evidence. Now as impressions of these kinds are usually

not meaningless, but vaguely represent organized and in

herited experiences (as we see in an infant which cries
on seeing an ugly face or hearing a gruff voice), it

results that women, forthwith guided by such impres

sions, may not unfrequently escape injuries which men,

waiting for evidence, suffer before they have satisfied

themselves that their impressions are right.

  I am led to make these remarks by an experience in
Hinde Street. The first impressions I received from my

hostess were of an unfavourable kind. She gave me the

idea of a nature anything but attractive, although she

put on a manner of great civility. I ignored this natural
verdict of my feelings, but I had afterwards reason to
regret that I did not yield to it. Though no positive

evil resulted, the relation was an unpleasant one.

   Not as being illustrative of anything repugnant in her,

I may here name for its drollery an incident that

occurred during my few months of stay in the house.

Vain as well as vulgar-minded, she professed to have a

high admiration of Shakspeare: was partial to reading

his plays aloud, and considered that she declaimed the

speeches extremely well. On one occasion, after enlarg
                                                    saying --
ing upon her    reverence for him, she    ended by
               wish that he were alive,             him here.
" Ah, I often                            and I had

How we should enjoy one another's conversation !"

  I had commenced the Principles of Biology immediately

on arriving in town in the autumn ; and during my brief
stay in Gloucester Square had made moderate progress

               99

                                       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY        [1862-64

to revision, stopped dictation. Of course I resumed this

as soon as possible after my return. Another interrup
tion, however, though too brief to be mentioned save for

its cause, shortly occurred.

  Mr. J. S. Mill had just published his book on Utilita

rianism. In to my surprise, found myself classed as
I                                      I
                                               I
     it,                                            Ia
                                                          I
an Anti-utilitarian. Not liking to let pass characteriza

tion which regarded as erroneous, wrote to him ex

plaining my position -- showing in what agreed with

the existing school of Utilitarians, and in what differed

from them. The essential part of this letter was pub

lished by Professor Bain in one of the closing chapters

of his Mental and Moral Science; but                     not to be found
                                                it
                                                     it
                                                         is

                                                            I
anywhere in my own works. As seems unfit that this

anomalous distribution should be permanent, decide to

reprint here omitting the opening and closing para
graphs --
'
              :

          it

                                    ;
The note in question greatly startled me by implicitly

classing me with the Anti-utilitarians.         I        have never regard

ed myself as an Anti-utilitarian. My dissent from the doc

trine of Utility as commonly understood, concerns not the

object to be reached by men, but the method of reaching it.

While admit that happiness                    the ultimate end to be con
I

    is I
                                            is
                                           it
templated, do not admit that should be the proximate

end. The Expediency-Philosophy having concluded that

happiness the thing to be achieved, assumes that morality

has no other business than empirically to generalize the re

sults of conduct, and to supply for the guidance of conduct

nothing more than its empirical generalizations.

But the view for which contend is, that Morality proper
so-called -- the science of right conduct --has for its object
ly
    '
                                 I

to determine how and why certain modes of conduct are

detrimental, and certain other modes beneficial. These good

                                       100

JEt. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

consequences of the constitution of things ; and I conceive it

to be the business of moral science to deduce, from the laws

of life and the conditions of existence, what kinds of action

necessarily tend to produce happiness, and what kinds to

produce unhappiness. Having done this, its deductions are
to be recognized as laws of conduct ; and are to be conformed
to irrespective of a direct estimation of happiness or misery.

   ' Perhaps an analogy will most clearly show my meaning.
During its early stages, planetary Astronomy consisted of

nothing more than accumulated observations respecting the
positions and motions of the sun and planets; from which
accumulated observations it came by and by to be empirically
predicted, with an approach to truth, that certain of the

heavenly bodies would have certain positions at certain times.
But the modern science of planetary Astronomy consists of

deductions from the law of gravitation --deductions showing

why the celestial bodies necessarily occupy certain places at
certain times. Now, the kind of relation which thus exists

between ancient and modern Astronomy is analogous to the

kind of relation which, I conceive, exists between the Expedi

ency-Morality and Moral Science properly so-called. And

the objection which I have to the current Utilitarianism, is,

that it recognizes no more developed form of morality -- does
not see that it has reached but the initial stage of Moral

Science.

   ' To make my position fully understood, it seems needful

to add that, corresponding to the fundamental propositions
of a developed Moral Science, there have been, and still are,
developing in the race, certain fundamental moral intuitions ;
and that, though these moral intuitions are the results of
accumulated experiences of utility, gradually organized and
inherited, they have come to be quite independent of con

scious experience. Just in the same way that I believe the

intuition of space, possessed by any living individual, to have
arisen from organized and consolidated experiences of all

             IOI

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

developed nervous organizations -- just as I believe that this

intuition, requiring only to be made definite and complete
by personal experiences, has practically become a form of
thought, apparently quite independent of experience ; so do

I believe that the experiences of utility, organized and con

solidated through all past generations of the human race,

have been producing corresponding nervous modifications,
which, by continued transmission and accumulation, have
become in us certain faculties of moral intuition --certain

emotions responding to right and wrong conduct, which have
no apparent basis in the individual experiences of utility.

I also hold that just as the space-intuition responds to the

exact demonstrations of Geometry, and has its rough conclu
sions interpreted and verified by them; so will moral intui
tions respond to the demonstrations of Moral Science, and
will have their rough conclusions interpreted and verified by

them.'

   Before leaving the subject I may remark that this
difference of view has, I believe, arisen in part from
difference of culture. In Bentham's day the knowledge

of physical science was confined to a small number ; and,
as a result, thoughts about causation were, in nearly all
men, vague and undeveloped. Education, if not wholly

linguistic, included such other subjects only as gave
scarcely any material for generating definite ideas of
causal relations. That every expended force must work,

somehow and somewhere, an equivalent of change, and
conversely, was in idea rendered familiar to scarcely any.

The like may, I think, be said of Bentham's followers in

general. Though, doubtless, causes have been theoret
ically recognized by all of them ; and though in Mr.
Mill's System of Logic, the doctrine of causation receives
full and critical exposition ; yet by him, as by the Utili

102

Mr. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

cal science at large which conduces to an ever-present
and vivid consciousness of cause. In the absence of
discipline and physical science the search for causes does
not become a mental habit. Hence the contented resting

in empirical utilitarianism. It was thought that the re

sults of this kind or that kind of action are to be ascer
tained by induction; and it was tacitly assumed that
nothing more remains to be done. That the connexions
between conduct and consequence in every case are

causal, and that ethical theory remains but rudimentary
until the causal relations are generalized, was a truth not

recognized by them.

   Christmas of this year, as of the preceding year, was
spent by my father with me in London. Though now
over seventy he remained in fair vigour ; having, indeed,
in a considerable degree recovered from the nervous dis

order of his middle life. I find by letters that the dread

of a cold journey was the chief difficulty to be got over

in persuading him to come to town.
   Concerning my social life at this time, which this visit

of my father fitly introduces, there seems nothing to
record save some accessions to my circle of friends. One
of these is recalled by the following passage in a letter

home, dated 25th February, 1863.

  " I dined on Saturday with some new friends named Huth,

who were great friends of Mr. Buckle's. They are very nice,
intelligent people. Dr. Carpenter was one of the guests ;
and also Mr. Hare, the author of the scheme of representa
tion that has excited so much attention."

All members of the family were worshippers of Mr.
Buckle. Two of the sons were with him in the East when

            103

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

Henry Huth, the father, an amiable man whose lack of

animal energy led to a retiring manner and preference for
a quiet life, was noted for his magnificent collection of
rare books. This is now in the possession of his son, Mr.
Alfred Huth, who has become known as the biographer
of Buckle, and also by his work on the results of marriages

between relations.

   The other addition to my social circle was a gentleman
with a remarkable name-- Mr. Osmond De Beauvoir

Priaulx ; the author of a work entitled Questioncs Mosaicae.
He was famed for giving sumptuous dinners to some

what select parties. Buckle had been a frequent guest.

On the occasion of my first dinner at his house, there
were, among others less known, Mr. Higgins, at that
time distinguished as a writer of slashing letters in The
Times signed " Jacob Omnium ;" Mr. G. S. Venables, a
Parliamentary barrister, and a writer of leaders in The

Saturday Review and in The Times, who, I have been
told, had somewhat disappointed his friends: his Uni

versity career having raised great expectations. Then
there was Erasmus Darwin, a brother of Charles Darwin,

too feeble in health to display his powers. Thackeray,
too, was one of the party. Neither then nor on other oc

casions when I met him, did he display his powers in any

way. The share he took in conversation was not large;

and in what he did say, so far as I can remember, no

sign of wit or humour was given. I have heard that he

could be a lively companion ; but it seems possible that
usually when in company he was occupied in observing

traits of character and manner. A painter of human

nature as variously manifested must ordinarily be more a

104

&t. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

sybarite; and while one of these words was justified by
the character of his parties, the other was justified by the

quality of his dinners, which differed from other dinners,
even of an elaborate kind, in that they had always a good
deal of the unexpected : there were unusual dishes. Vari

ous choice wines, too, eight or ten in kind, came round in
the course of dinner and dessert ; of which the Chateau

Yquem was always looked forward to by the guests as

yielding the culminating pleasure of the feast.
    Before the end of March, letters show a change of

address : I was in my old quarters in Bloomsbury Square,
where I suppose I was tempted back by an offer of the
accommodation I needed. Later on in April there is a

reference to another of my visits to Standish, where it

appears that I enjoyed myself as usual and derived

benefit.

   This season seems to have had no relapse from my

ordinary abnormal state of health. Sleeping, now as ever

a chief difficulty, had been improved by a course recom

mended ; as witness the following paragraph.
   " I have recently been profiting considerably by the advice

of a French physician--a Dr. de Mussy to whom Huxley
sent me. He has prescribed frequent warm baths -- three or
more times in the week, with the view of improving my
sleeping. I have decidedly slept the better for them."

   Here let me add, for the instruction of the sleepless,
that some years later Dr. de Mussy told me he had modi

fied his opinion respecting the efficacy of warm baths as
soporifics; for he had met with cases in which, though
taken at a temperature below blood heat (as they should
always be), they produced wakefulness instead of sleepi

ness. That under some conditions they do this, I can

            105

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

some change in my constitutional state, this reverse effect

was produced upon me, so that I dare not take a warm

bath late in the day. Unexpected as this experience was,
it was congruous with a statement once made to me by
the late Dr. Bence Jones respecting other medicinal
agents. Speaking of drugs, he said that there is scarcely

one which may not under different conditions produce
opposite effects. Certainly we have familiar proof that
this is the case with alcohol, tea, coffee, tobacco and

opium.

   This mention of opium reminds me that I had for some
time previously made occasional use of it--commonly
under the form of morphia. With me sleep brought

sleep and wakefulness was habitually followed by more
wakefulness ; so that after a series of specially bad nights

it had been my practice to break the morbid habit, and re
establish the periodicity of sleep by artificial means.

Sometimes it was weeks, sometimes months, before I

again had recourse to one or other preparation of opium.
That the average result was beneficial is an opinion which

I here express, because there is, I think, an undue fear of

opium; both in the minds of medical men and in those
of men at large. Every medicinal agent is liable to

abuse; and when it has been greatly abused there

arises a reaction, which goes almost to the extent of
forbidding its use. In respect of opium a re-reaction is

needed.

   Health not much disturbed, and work but little inter

rupted, enabled me to issue three numbers of my serial

during the winter and subsequent season : the last of

them, however, number IX, retaining me until after the

106

JEt. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

was not a complete holiday ; for, as usual, I took with me

work for revision. In this case it was the revision of the

various essays published during 1858, 1859 and 1860,

which I had decided to collect in a volume.

   My first resting place was Scarborough, to which place

I went to spend some time with my mother, who was

staying there in the hope of recovering from that debility
which had been for years coming on. She exemplified

the evils resulting from carelessness of self, accompany
ing undue care of others. Writers on morals do not

recognize the fact that excess of self-sacrifice is not only

a cause of suffering to the individual making but often
                                             ;

                                                  it,

                                                      if
becomes      cause of suffering to relatives and          this
is
        a
fact unrecognized by those who undertake to set forth

the principles of right conduct, still less  it is     recognized
                                                 is itnot in such
by the world at large --or, recognized,
             a if
way as overtly to influence conduct. A strong sense of

duty, partly natural and partly traceable to religious con

victions, had, for years, been leading my mother gradu

ally to undermine her system by taxing too much and
                   it

                                                    ;

now there was beginning that constitutional prostration

which presently made her confirmed invalid. Many of

my letters contain expostulations, but they were useless.

She was one of those who exemplify the truth that                                              ^
women's natures, and by implication their beliefs, become
fixed at an earlier period of life than do those of men;

and her amiable errors were continued in spite of all

reasoning.

   After ten days at Scarborough turned my face north

wards, and the first indication of my whereabouts

given in letter which says: -- "We have just arrived
safely and well at Oban after fine day's voyage." At
             a

                                      aI

                                                                                           is

             107

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

tour in the North West Highlands with Lott and one of
his Derby friends, well known to me also. Starting next

day by fast steamer (the Mountaineer I think it was in

those days), and taking our course down the Sound of
Mull and up the Sleat Sound, we skirted the north east

shore of Skye in the afternoon ; and, abandoning our

original project of exploring Skye, went on to Gairloch.

The following morning we took our course by the side
of Loch Maree to Kinlochewe : reversing my walk of the

previous year. A dog-cart took us next day as far as

Loch Torridon, whence, finding a fit guide, we took our

way through the mountains to the shore of Loch Carron

--a wild and interesting climb --and put up at Jeantown.

Balmacarra was our next stopping place ; and the day

being Sunday we, conforming to the custom of the house,

in common with all other guests, whether in private

rooms or not, dined at the table d'hote. There were pres
ent on this occasion Mr. and Mrs. Cardwell (as they
then were) and Mr. Robert Lowe (as he then was) : they
and ourselves forming the party. Nothing in the conver

sation was remarkable enough to be remembered. A

steam-boat carried us to Glenelg the next morning.

There my friends left me, and, prompted by my recom

mendation, explored Loch Hourne and Glengarry on the

way home ; while I remained till the 20th, when I became

due at Ardtornish.

   Thereupon commenced a month more pleasant to me in
recollection than the details of its doings would be to

the reader in narration. Two extracts from letters writ
ten at the time, may, however, be fitly given. One dated
early in September says: --

   " Some guests have lately arrived -- Mr. Charles Buxton,

108

JEt. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Buxton I knew, but have not seen

them of late, and am glad to renew the acquaintance. . . .

   I have found some treasures in the shape of plants which

illustrate my views of morphology. This is the more for

tunate because I had lost the specimens I before possessed."

The Mr. Charles Buxton, m.p., mentioned above, an

amiable and intelligent man, was one of the sons of Sir

Thomas Fowell Buxton, of anti-slavery fame. He did

not survive for many years: not having, I think, the

strength needed for bearing the stress of public life

joined with that of business and social excitements.
His face bore the expression of chronic fatigue. One

of the sons, who were at that time boys, now sits in

Parliament for Poplar. A letter of the 17th September
says :--

" I am proposing to take my leave of the Smiths this day

week: they have sundry visitors coming in a few days after

and will be quite full. . . .                            My

   I am quite well --better than I have been for years.

sleeping is getting more normal and I hope I am now beyond
the liability to relapses. I have caught four more salmon
since I wrote-- three in one day."

Before the end of the month I was at home, and re

mained there through a good part of October: no doubt

partially occupied in seeing through the press the Es

says to be presently re-published.

  I had but just settled myself in Bloomsbury Square,
and had scarecly got into full work, when I left town

again for a short time. The occasion was a visit to Lord
Houghton at Fryston Hall, his country place near Pon-
tefract -- a town for which he sat in Parliament while

             109

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

circle of a dozen agreeable people, belonging to the polit

ical and literary worlds, only two of whom I knew per

sonally. The surroundings of Fryston have greatly in
jured it as a residence; nor is the country around pictur
esque. But the few days spent there on this occasion,

and on subsequent occasions, were made pleasant by
the social indoor life.

   I had known our host as Mr. Milnes since 1851, and

had more recently, in London, attended some of his din
ners and literary breakfasts -- widely known as gatherings
of notabilities of all kinds holding all opinions. While

partly his catholicity, it was perhaps partly his constitu
tional love of excitement which prompted him to extend
his hospitality to every one who had made a name, and

thus to collect these incongruous assemblies; for he
seemed unable to lead a quiet life. Even in his later

years, when increasing age might have been expected to
have a sedative influence, he was ever moving hither and

thither, to be present at gatherings, grave and gay, of
various natures. About his views one gained but an un
decided impression. Whether it was the effect of men
tal restlessness or whether it was the effect of readiness

to listen to ideas of all kinds, however extreme, there
seemed in him an unsettled state of opinion upon most

things.
    There were exceptions, however, to his restlessness.

I heard of one at least. A few years later than the time
of which I am speaking the English disciples of M.

Comte decided to commence Sunday services appropri
ate to their creed: Dr. Congreve, who was the leader of
the body, being priest. Some curiosity was excited for
a time among those who were willing to listen to new

no

Mt. 49-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

replied that there was a regular service, having orderly

forms, "In fact," said he, "it was just like a church:

there was Lord Houghton fast asleep."
   He was extremely pleasant and amusing as a com

panion. His information about people and things, was
copious; and he abounded in anecdotes, which he nar
rated with an enjoyment that was infectious. Full of

kindly feeling, too, he was. From many sides I have

heard references to his benevolent help quietly given.

He was genuinely desirous of aiding whatever he

thought good.

Since the publication of First Principles, Professor

Youmans had been, as before, active in looking after my

affairs in the United States: among other things hav

ing, as I heard (not from himself but from Mr. Silsbee),

written over a hundred letters to negligent and default

ing subscribers.

He was anxious that my already-published works

should be circulated in the United States. The Messrs.

Appleton had, I believe, undertaken the risk of reprint
ing the Education; but, I presume, did not think that the

reprinting of the two volumes of Essays and of Social

Statics would pay. Under these circumstances he pro

posed a scheme, the nature of which may be gathered
from the response I made to
                  :               dated December 17,

                             it,
1863, which ran as follows --
"I must really protest against the amount of sacrifice so

generously proposed to be made by my American friends.

The obligations under which you have placed me, and to
which you have been lately adding so greatly, has been
                                     it

                                                       ;
beyond my power to avoid, had wished to avoid them but
                  I

                  III

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1862-64

such as I can, and must, avoid. If my American friends,

moved by your active efforts, agree to take upon themselves
the risk of re-publishing some of my writings --a risk which

I dare not run myself-- I cannot help it ; and while I feel

somewhat uneasy at seeing such responsibilities undertaken,

I cannot but feel a considerable pleasure in finding so much

interest manifested in the success of my aims. But when it

is proposed that my friends should supply Messrs. Appleton

with the stereotype plates, and that I should begin to reap

the profits of the reprint from the outset, as seems to be

implied by your statement of the arrangement, I must de

cline to agree. It
        if
                  iIs,

                                              a
                                                     a
                       think, quite sufficient generosity on

their part, they save me from contingent risk, and give

me the contingent profit after their expenses have been

paid."

This was,  I  believe, the course eventually adopted.

Funds were raised to pay the cost of reprinting the sev

eral volumes named, and after those who furnished them

had been recouped, began to receive royalty on all
                    I                                   a

copies sold.

   The topic of arrangements for the publication of my

books in America having been here incidentally raised,

I  may fitly add what has further to be said about it.

During subsequent years the course followed was
this. A duplicate set of stereotype plates having been, in

each case, cast for me by my printers, was sent to New
York. From these Messrs. Appleton printed the

American edition, under an agreement to pay me roy
              :

                                        a
                                                                                         aa
alty of 15 per cent, of the retail price on all copies sold
from the outset their only risk being the cost of paper

and press-work. Of course considerable sale had to

be achieved before the returns repaid me the outlay for

the stereotype plates. But after this there resulted fair

                       112

JEt. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

friend Youmans, the Messrs. Appleton have loyally
adhered.*

   Of occurrences during the winter and subsequent sea
son, the first in strict chronological order should have
been named before those of the last section, which, by im
plication, refer to it; namely, the publication of the sec
ond series of Essays, drc. This occurred at the end of
November. There is little to be said about it; for so far
as I remember scarcely any notice was taken of the book,
and none of my letters mention reviews of it. Repub

lished essays are generally looked coldly upon by critics,
and mine were of a kind to excite, in nine out of ten

among them, even less warmth of reception than usual.
   The year ended without anything more worthy of re

mark than that my father came to town to visit me at

Christmas, and that some time in January I returned

with him to Derby, remaining there till the beginning
of February. Incidents of succeeding months may be
most conveniently indicated by extracts from letters

home. One written on March 26 says :--

   Bain has sent me a copy of the second edition of his

   * The first book by Mr. Spencer which the  Messrs. Appleton pub
                                               Since then twenty-five
lished was " Education," in November, i860.

separate works have been printed by this house, including the "Auto

biography." From the start a royalty payment has been made to Mr.

Spencer, although he had no legal protection for his writings in the

United States. From the records of the house, it appears that, in the

early years, plates were imported from England, but in many cases be
fore and in all cases since the International Copyright Act went into

effect, the composition and electrotyping have been done at the expense

of the American publishers. It may be added here that from the be

ginning until December 31st, 1903, the Messrs. Appleton have sold 368,-

755 volumes of Mr. Spencer's writings, but these figures, of course,
take no account of the sale of unauthorized editions during the years pre
vious to the adoption of International Copyright. -- Publishers' Note.

             51 113

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

" Senses and the Intellect," in which he shows much gen
erosity of feeling.

This passage refers to the great candour and good

temper with which he received the criticisms I had

passed upon the first edition of his work, and the readi

ness shown by him to modify the expression of his

views. The following paragraphs are from a letter dated

April 25:--

    " The Potters have taken a house in town for the season,

and I have seen something of them. I dine with them again

next Saturday.

   I seem to have been really benefited by the fit of excite
ment I had a while ago. [The cause of which will be indi
cated presently]. I bear my work very conveniently, and

can do more reading without feeling it."

   About this time Mr. Potter had become Chairman of
the Great Western Railway Company; and Parliamen
tary business made it needful for him to be much in town.
The taking of a London house for the season, thus in
itiated, was continued during many subsequent years,
with the effect of adding to my social pleasures, and to
those far preferable pleasures yielded by a family circle
of intimate friends. The next extract, which is from a
letter to my mother dated May 18, refers to some kindred

gratifications.

..." I have been visiting the Lubbocks a good deal lately.

      I have postponed going to spend a week with them
because I am unable at present to spare the time."

   On May 27 I wrote to my father respecting antici
pated arrangements as follows: --

   " I shall in all probability go to Scotland. Mr. Smith

asked me to do so some two months ago ; and though the

114

Mt. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

see any reason to doubt that it will be renewed. As to your
own movements at Midsummer, I do not see why you should
not do as before. At any rate, you can join me here in town

during the latter end of June and the beginning of July, and
we can discuss further steps."

   I may also fitly quote some paragraphs from a letter

dated June 9.

  " I got the American papers this morning, and was much

amused with some of the statements in the biographical
notice. Did you recognize all the statements you are cred

ited with ?

   Enclosed I send a notice of the " Classification," and some

other things that may interest you. You will be struck by

the continued and thoughtful kindness of my friends the

Lubbocks.

   I am quite well and getting on satisfactorily with my next
number. Only yesterday I arrived at a point of view from

which Darwin's doctrine of " Natural Selection " is seen to

be absorbed into the general theory of Evolution as I am

interpreting it."

Some explanation is called for by the last paragraph.

Organic evolution being a part of Evolution at large,

evidently had to be interpreted after the same general

manner -- had to be explained in physical terms: the

changes produced by functional adaptation (which I held

t"onabteuroanl eseolfectthioen,f"acthoards)   and  the changes produced by
                                             both  to be exhibited as result

ing from the redistribution of matter and motion every

where and always going on. Natural selection as or

dinarily described, is not comprehended in this universal

redistribution. It seems to stand apart as an unrelated

process. The search for congruity led first of all to per

yception of the fact that what Mr. Darwin called " natural

selection," might more literally be called survival of the

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

fittest. But what is survival of the fittest, considered as

an outcome of physical actions? The answer presently
reached was this: --The changes constituting evolution
tend ever towards a state of equilibrium. On the way to
absolute equilibrium or rest, there is in many cases estab
lished for a time, a moving equilibrium-- a system of

mutually-dependent parts severally performing actions
subserving maintenance of the combination. Every
living organism exhibits such a moving equilibrium-- a
balanced set of functions constituting its life; and the
overthrow of this balanced set of functions or moving
equilibrium is what we call death. Some individuals in

a species are so constituted that their moving equilib
ria are less easily overthrown than those of other indi
viduals; and these are the fittest which survive, or, in
Mr. Darwin's language, they are the select which nature
preserves. And now mark that in thus recognizing the

continuance of life as the continuance of a moving equi
librium, early overthrown in some individuals by incident
forces and not overthrown in others until after they have

reproduced the species, we see that this survival and
multiplication of the select, becomes conceivable in
purely physical terms, as an indirect outcome of a com
plex form of the universal redistribution of matter and

motion.

  Though I had kept up well during the season there

came a relapse at Midsummer, caused partly by extra

effort in completing, before leaving town, the number of
my serial then issued and partly, as a letter confesses,

by too many social excitements. I should have forgot

ten this relapse had not a letter shown that my father

1 16

/Et. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

have recalled the fact that I was much out of order had

there not resulted the memory of an incident there. Mr.
T. S. Baynes, then candidate for the professorship at St.
Andrews which he afterwards held, wished for a testi

monial from me. I had read nothing of his, and dared

not undertake the required amount of reading. The

difficulty was solved by my father, who read aloud to me

several mornings as we sat in a nook under the cliff.

After a week's stay he went to France, and I turned my

face northwards.

    Why narrate in detail my doings during the autumn ?
Accounts of this kind are occupying too much space.

Condensation must be carried as far as consists with due

indication of the ways in which my leisure times were

spent.

   Derby, of course, was my first stopping place. After
fetching my mother home from Matlock (she could not
now make long journeys) and after spending a few days

with her, I joined the Lotts at Penmaenmaur and re
mained till the end of July. Among the excursions we

made was an ascent of Snowdon. When they returned

home I went on to Scotland, stopped two days at Cor-

ran Ferry, seated myself for a time at Fort William, and
from that place took rambles: one of them being up
Glen Nevis as far as the amphitheatre into which it
widens, another being by Glen Spean to the Brig of Roy

and back. Returning as far as Oban, I found that the

looked for missive from Ardtornish had not arrived, and

I decided to spend the time in a local tour: my route be

ing across the hills to Port Sonachan on Loch Awe ;
thence to Inverary; thence through Glen Croe to Arro-
char on Loch Long; thence to Tarbet, Inverarnon and

             117

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

back to Oban: six days being thus occupied. My vexa

tion was great on finding that the invitation for me had

been lying in the Post Office since the day after I left. Had
I not been so impatient I might have had Highland en

joyments along with charming friends instead of being
a lone wanderer among mountains. However, the pros

pect of a month's pleasures before me soon banished the

thought of some pleasures lost. I remained at Ardtor-

nish until the middle of September and then left for

Derby. After some three weeks there I departed for

London early in October.

   A letter saying that I was about to fix myself at 88

Kensington Gardens Square, gives a hopeful account of
this new abode; which, internally not unsatisfactory,
was externally much more salubrious than my abodes of

several previous years. Here I revised the last proofs

of my twelfth number, which was sent to subscribers be
fore the close of the month : the issue to the public of the
Principles of Biology, Vol. I, taking place shortly after.

  What am I to say about this second instalment of

" The System of Philosophy," as it was at that time
named? It seems absurd to pass over without remark
the volume which gives the title to the chapter; even
though the title merely serves to indicate my special
occupation while there passed those two years of my life
which the chapter narrates. On the other hand it ap
pears needless to give any account of the contents of
a book which is accessible to any one who wishes to learn
them; and it would be out of taste to signalize those
ideas in it which seem to me of chief value. General

118

JEt. 42-44]  A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

with so vast and so difficult a subject seems called for--

a subject too vast for any man fully to acquaint himself
with as a whole -- so vast that even one of its two great
divisions is more than a diligent student can master -- so
vast that even a subdivision furnishes matter for inves

tigation sufficient to occupy a life. Though in boyhood

I had been interested in Natural History at large, and

more especially in Entomology; and though at that time

and in later years I was a constant reader of medical

periodicals and books, from which some knowledge of

anatomy and physiology was gathered --though I had

for some time studied Biology with a purpose; and

though a certain natural aptitude for laying hold of car

dinal facts enabled me gradually to acquire from what

I read, better general conceptions of biological truths
than most might have acquired; yet it is manifest that I
was inadequately equipped for the task. But I had un

dertaken to set forth a general theory of Evolution as
exhibited throughout all orders of existences. Whoever

carries out such an undertaking must either have a

knowledge of all the concrete sciences greater than any
man has ever had, or he must deal with some sciences
of which his knowledge is but partial, if not very im
perfect. Either the thing must not be done at all or it

must be thus done.

   In my own case the presumption was diminished by
the consciousness that friends who sympathized with my
aims, and whose competence in their respective depart

ments was beyond question, were prepared to aid me by

their criticisms. Professor Huxley kindly agreed to
read through my proofs for the purpose of checking
statements of zoological facts; while Dr. (now Sir

             119

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

On the whole the result seems to have shown that the

attempt was not unwarranted.

  In one respect, indeed, I had, as an outsider, studying

the phenomena of organic life as phenomena of Evolu
tion at large, a certain kind of advantage over special
ists, dealing after the ordinary manner with their re
spective separate subjects -- plant-life and animal-life.
The man of science who limits himself to a department,
is apt to overlook, or else not sufficiently to appreciate,

those most general truths which the phenomena he

studies display in common with other groups of phe
nomena. The truths exhibited by plant-life and animal-
life in common, which neither the pure botanist nor the

pure zoologist is called upon to recognize at all, are
really truths of the profoundest meaning; and though in
most cases there is, on the part of each, such acquaint
ance with the sister science as discloses some, at any
rate, of these most general truths, yet while the atten
tion of each is almost wholly absorbed by his specialty,
these most general truths are relegated to the back

ground of thought instead of occupying its foreground.
Still more does inattention to orders of phenomena re
mote in kind, result in either unconsciousness or inade

quate consciousness of the truths common to all these

orders of phenomena and the phenomena of life -- truths

of wider significance than those which the phenomena

of life themselves display. Of course the study of bio
logical facts, not from the point of view of Organic Evo
lution only, but from the point of view of Evolution at

large, inorganic, organic, and super-organic, entailed
the placing of these widest truths in conspicuous posi
tions: thus conducing to a more philosophical concep

120

/Et. 42-44]   A VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

One further remark to be made is that this treatment

of the subject led incidentally to a method which proved

of much service. While the ultimate purpose was to in

terpret the general facts of structure and function as

results of Evolution, it was manifest that, as a prelim

inary step, it was needful to specify and illustrate these

general facts; and needful also to set forth those phys

ical and chemical properties of organic matter which

are implied in the interpretation. That is to say, there

had to be exhibited the Data of Biology and the Induc

tions of Biology. Some one has remarked that in phil

osophizing much depends upon rightly putting a ques

tion to Nature; and in this case the deliberate inquiry

what are antecedent truths taken for granted in Biology,

and what are the biological truths which, apart from

theory, may be regarded as established by observation,

proved of great advantage. Subsequently, when deal

ing with Psychology, with Sociology, and with Ethics,

a like course of procedure yielded like advantages.

Concerning the reception of the work there is little

to be said: the reason being that little notice was taken

of it. In 1864, not one educated person in ten or more

knew the meaning of the word Biology; and among

those who knewis

                   5 I it,

                                                             a
                                                                     is
                whether critics or general readers,

few cared to know anything about the subject. Prob

ably in many cases the volume received hardly as much

attention as    implied by that reviewing humorously

described as cutting the leaves and smelling the paper

knife. One notice may refer to, partly as being typi
cal and partly because of its unconscious drollery. In

The Athenaum of November, 1864, paragraph con
cerning the book commenced thus:-- "This
                                                                         but one

                121

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1862-64

we can therefore but announce it." If we imagine the

critic, many years after, to have had before him the " Sys
tem of Philosophy " as finished, he might with much
greater cogency have said: -- "Here are ten volumes
on five different subjects, which it is manifestly impossi
ble for us to review. We can therefore but announce
them." The argument is neat and conclusive: --This is
but a part and cannot be noticed. This complete work

is too big and varied for notice. Consequently it must

122

CHAPTER XXXVI.

A DIGRESSION.

1864. JEt. 43.

Chronologically placed, the incidents to be nar

rated in this chapter should have been narrated some dis

tance back in the preceding chapter; for instead of

belonging to the close of 1864, they belong to its open

ing. But the narrative would have been confused had I
adhered strictly to the order of occurrence. I have

thought it better to make of these detached incidents the

matter for a detached chapter.   in the  essay  on  the " Gen
   Ten years had elapsed since,

esis of Science," I had discussed and rejected the classi

fication of the sciences proposed by M. Comte. In the

course of the criticism to which the first part of the essay

was devoted, I expressed the opinion that the sciences

do not admit of serial arrangement, whether considered

logically in their natures or historically in their develop

ments; and I expressed the further opinion that they

stand in relations of divergence and re-divergence, which

may be symbolized by the branches of a tree. More than

once during these ten years, I had made attempts to rep

resent on paper their ramifying relations, but without

success: none of the diagrams I made came anywhere

near satisfying me. But now, my attention having been

123

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864

my thoughts took, it seems, a new direction, and led me
to recognize those fundamental distinctions which di
vide the great groups of sciences, and determine the

classification of them.
   There is a family of sciences which severally under

take to give accounts of individualized objects -- not ob
jects which, like fragments of stone, are in some or

many respects indefinite, but objects which are defin
able, and are known either as solitary individuals or as
individual members of a species. Be it nebula, star, the
sun, a planet or a satellite, each of the things Astronomy
concerns itself with is an identifiable individual. So is
the Earth with which Geology deals; and so are all
plants and animals. So in a sense are minds; for though
not visible entities, they are coherent and organized
groups of functions exhibited by certain entities; and

each of them is individualized as belonging to one or
other kind of creature, and, in a minor degree, to one
or other sample of it. And so it is with societies. Each
of them is a more or less distinctly incorporated whole,
individualized by its structural traits as well as by its
name and locality. Moreover, every science of this class
is like the others in the respect that it aims to give an

exhaustive account of the object or objects forming its
subject-matter. Nor is this all. It aims also to give
an account of the ways in which each of them became
what it is-- to give a history of the transformations
through which it has passed. Astronomy, Geology, Bi
ology, Psychology, and Sociology, may in fact all of
them be properly called Natural Histories ; though in
current speech a sub-division of one monopolizes the

124

&t. 43]  A DIGRESSION

    family have in common certain other traits. Mechanics,
   Physics, and Chemistry, none of them treat of definitely
   individualized objects. The forces with which Mechan
   ics is concerned are not tangible or visible entities at all;
   nor, in formulating their laws, is absolute quantity of any
   moment: relative quantity only enters into the inquiry.

   Similarly, the phenomena of Heat, Light, and Electricity
   are generalized without reference to specialized portions
   or particular amounts: the characters which give indi
   viduality are absent. The like holds with Chemistry.
   In their gaseous forms the matters it deals with can
   scarcely be said to have tangibility or visibility; in their
   liquid forms they cannot be said to be individualized; and
   though, in their solid forms, fragments of them have
   shapes and sizes by which they can be recognized, these
   are irrelevant to those truths respecting molecular con

   stitutions, combining proportions, and modes of action,
   which Chemistry sets forth. Moreover these sciences
   have the peculiarity that they respectively treat of mat
   ters and forces, not as they exist in actual objects and

   actual motions, but as separated, so far as may be, from

   one another -- from impurities and from perturbing
   actions. And once more, they have, by consequence,

   the peculiarity that the truths they express are partially
   ideal: the atomic weights and combining equivalents

 f of the chemist are not verified absolutely by experiments,
   for impurities cannot be entirely got rid of; and no law
   of motion or action formulated by the physicist is ever
    fulfilled completely, because interferences can never be

I wholly escaped.
      Yet more sharply marked off from both of these

   groups of sciences than they are from one another, is a

         125

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864

cerned at all with the real, but with the purely ideal.

Though Logic and Mathematics habitually affirm truths
respecting existences, yet they are in no case concerned
with the existences themselves, but only with certain of
their aspects considered as dissociated from them. Logic

has to do with the exclusions, inclusions and over-lap

pings of classes of existences, considered as distinguish
able from one another by marks; and it cares neither
what the existences are nor what the marks are. The

units with which arithmetic and the calculus at large
deal, often stand for real objects, but the reality of the
objects is quite irrelevant to the numerical truths

reached: in any ordinary calculation when one number
is multiplied or divided by another, there is no thought
of the things which the numbers represent. So it is
with geometrical truths. These are concerned with the

phenomena of pure space. Though in the expression of

these phenomena visible lines are habitually used, yet
that which gives the lines visibility is intentionally

ignored.
   That the conception originally presented itself to me

in this shape, I do not say; but this was the outcome

of it. It became manifest that, as above shown, the sci
ences fall into three groups --Concrete, Abstract-Con
crete, and Abstract. And it became further manifest
that the sciences within each group are to be arranged

in the order of decreasing generality.
   This view appeared to me important enough to merit

prompt publication; and I decided to suspend my ordi
nary work that I might write an essay setting it forth.

Whether this resolve was made in December 1863,

126

&i. 43]            A DIGRESSION

made while I was in Derby in January 1864, I cannot

decide. But it was evidently in one or the other; for

the first letter in which reference is made to implies
                                                It it,
that my father had already been told about it.                   dated
                                                    is
February 19, and runs as follows: --

" am still busy with the Essay on Classification, which
aI                                   I

                                                    a

                                                          a it

                                                              it I
have fully written out, and have nearly done revising. It

works out far more completely than imagined would.

After sundry consultations      have decided not to publish
                   it I
                         I

                               it
in periodical but to publish separately as pamphlet."

This decision was, fancy, in large measure forced

one. Inquiry made manifest that an essay so purely

philosophical would be unreadable by nearly all who take

in periodicals, and that editorial acceptance was scarcely

to be expected. There was no alternative but to under

take the cost of printing as an independent publication,
                            it

As happened, this decision was fortunate; for just
    a it
as the pamphlet, or rather brochure, was on the eve of

issue, there occurred an incident which made needful an

emphatic repudiation of certain doctrines ascribed to

me; and while the issue of the pamphlet afforded fit
                                                                 it a
opportunity for the repudiation,     a  postscript to                  af

forded fit place.

   The incident in question was the appearance of re             a
view of First Principles, by M. Auguste Laugel, in the
Revue des Deux Mondes, for 15 February 1864. Highly
satisfactory to me as the review was in many respects,
there was one respect in which was unsatisfactory.
M. Laugel tacitly implied that belonged to school of
thought from the doctrines of which dissent: having,

indeed, to sundry of the leading doctrines, profound
                                I

                                        it

                                        I

                                                             aa

                                127

            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                         [1864

   That body of scientific truths and methods which M.
Comte named " Positive Philosophy," he remarked, was

analogous to that which had been in England called
" Natural               "
            Philosophy      ;  and, by implication,  the men of

science who had been natural philosophers were re

garded by him as positive philosophers. This naming,

or re-naming, led to an unfortunate confusion. The phi
losophy which M. Comte named " Positive Philosophy,"

came not unnaturally to be spoken of by his disciples as

his philosophy; and gradually among them, and after

wards among the undiscriminating public, there grew up

the notion  that those who held     the doctrines called  by
            " Positive Philosophy                         M.
M. Comte                            " were adherents of

Comte. M. Laugel, if he did not fall into this error, at

any rate used language which seemed to countenance it.

He spoke of me as imbued with certain ideas (naming

especially the relativity of knowledge) characterizing the

Philosophy called Positive ; and though these ideas were
manifestly not ideas originated by M. Comte, nor claimed

by him, yet by calling them ideas of the Positive Philoso

phy which I accepted, he produced the impression that I

was an adherent of M. Comte.

  This impression, utterly untrue as it was, I thought
it needful to dissipate; and the greater part of March I

occupied in setting forth my antagonism to all those doc

trines which are distinctive of the Comtean Philosophy.

On the 26 March I wrote to my father as follows :--
  " I have just got rid of the last revises of my pamphlet, the

corrections and modifications of which have caused me a
Igreat deal of bother and delay.
                                    expect it will be out to

wards the end of next week.

  You ask about my health. I am happy to say that I am

                               128

JEt. 43]  A DIGRESSION

the Appendix about Comte brought on a fit of excitement,

moral and intellectual, which I could not subdue. I could

not stop thinking day or night, and was in a great fright lest

I should have a serious relapse. However I escaped it ; and
now seem to be all the better. It seems to me that this fit

of excitement has done something towards restoring my
cerebral circulation, which, ever since my break-down, has

been deficient."

   The fit of excitement here referred to was not pro

duced wholly by the writing of this postscript setting
forth " Reasons for dissenting from the philosophy of M.

Comte." A private controversy which resulted had much
to do with it. Wishing to be quite fair to Comte, I
thought it desirable that the proof of what I had written

should be looked through by one who was in sympathy
with him. Lewes, if not a disciple in the full sense of the

word, was a partial adherent, and was also his expositor.

I asked him to oblige me by his criticisms, which he will
ingly did. Some of the minor ones I accepted and
profited by, but against the major ones I protested ; and
this led to a correspondence between us over which I

excited myself in the way indicated. My letter of chief

importance, which might fitly have formed a postscript

to the postscript, will be found in Appendix B.

   The inquiry which led to the digression described in
this chapter had a sequence. More important than the
theory of the Classification of the Sciences set forth, and
much more important than the definite rejection of the
Comtean philosophy, for which the opportunity was af
forded, was a certain incidental result.

   When arranging the divisions and sub-divisions of the
Concrete Sciences, and setting out with recognition of

                   52 129

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864

the fact that under their most general aspects they all
give accounts of the re-distributions of matter and motion,
there arose the need for stating the universal trait of all

such re-distributions. This trait is that increasing inte

gration of matter necessitates a concomitant dissipation

of motion, and that increasing amount of motion implies
a concomitant disintegration of matter. Perception of
this truth threw a new light on the phenomena of Evo
lution at large. Here were seen the processes which con

stitute respectively Evolution and Dissolution under

their primordial aspects. It became obvious that the dif

ferentiations, with resulting increase of heterogeneity,

which I had supposed to be primary traits of Evolution,

were but secondary traits. Clearly the first law must be

the law in conformity with which aggregates are formed
and destroyed ; and not the law in conformity with which

their complexities of structure arise.
   The necessity for re-arranging First Principles became

manifest. It had been wrongly organized and must be
re-organized. This task I decided to undertake as soon

130

I                 CHAPTER XXXVII. I

   I      ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY.     it,

                     1864 --67. tEt. 44 --47.is II
                  II
   Letters show that before the number which closed
the first volume of the Biology was issued, I had coma
menced the second volume ; for I was eager to get com
            it,
pletely worked out on paper, ideas which had been longis

waiting for expression. A letter to my father of Octo
ber 14, complaining of delays, continues: --

   " Meanwhile I am getting ready my materials, and arrang
ing my ideas for commencing the next No. which I shall do

to-morrow or on Monday. The subject of Morphological

Development grows upon me so much as I examine into

that feel somewhat perplexed how to say all that have
got to say within the available space."

       am reminded by this passage of the way in which
with me, and suppose with many others, plans that
have been once formed exercise an almost irresistible
coercion. Habitually, before have yet finished rejoic
ing over my emancipation from work which has long
played the tyrant over me, make myself the slave of
another. The truth is, suppose, that in the absence of
wife and children to care for, the carrying out of my
undertakings the one thing which makes life worth
living --even though, by life continually perturbed.

                                                          131

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

the bad habit of writing books, I might maintain good
health. It seems that I declined to have good health on

such terms.

  Not, indeed, that at the time of which I now speak I

had more than usual reason to complain. After having

been a week at my new habitat there went a report home
speaking of its favourable effects ; and a letter written
on the 7th November says--

  " I am in very tolerable condition now that the weather
has become fine again. I felt this time, as I always do, a

marked difference between my state during a low atmos

pheric pressure and my state during a high atmospheric

pressure."

This passage I quote mainly to show my sensitiveness

to atmospheric changes, which has been a constant trait
with me ever since. During subsequent months further
improvement in health seems to have resulted from my
migration to the suburbs ; as witness the following para
graph from a letter dated 7 April 1865 :--

" I am tolerably well ; having returned on Monday from the
Lubbocks with whom I had been spending five days. Last

night our Blastodermic Club entertained Colenso at dinner.

To-night I dine with Huxley, and to-morrow with the Huths.

On the whole I think I am improving in my power of bear
ing work and excitements."

   Reverting to the account of my work, a paragraph in

a letter dated November 23, 1864, indicates a new phase
upon which it was now entering: --

" I question whether it will be practicable for me to come
down before Christmas. I have to get a number of wood-

engravings done for my next number, and this involves

continual interviews and arrangements with the engraver ;

132

Mt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

me very fully just now, and makes it difficult for me to

get away. In fact to do so I must suspend my work."
  Since the days when I was in the habit of making

portraits of friends, more than twenty years previously,

I had never taken up my pencil. But now such small
skill as I have in delineating objects, became again
serviceable. The greater part of the illustrations I re

quired were of a kind which it was needful to make di
rectly from Nature ; and the ability to make them
myself, instead of employing an artist, saved me not
only money but the trouble which would have been re

quired to explain all that I wanted.

   These brief extracts and comments may be taken as
sufficiently indicating the course of my life during the
winter of 1864 and the London season of 1865.

   Of more interest to the reader than these details, is
an event referred to in the first of the above-quoted let
ters, dated November 7, 1864. It concerns the earliest
meeting of a body much more important by its quality

than by its size.
   " In pursuance of a long-suspended intention, a few of the

most advanced men of science have united to form a small

club to dine together occasionally. It consists of Huxley,

Tyndall, Hooker, Lubbock, Frankland, Busk, Hirst, and my
self. Two more will possibly be admitted. But the number
will be limited to ten. Our first dinner was on last Thurs
day; and the first Thursday of every month will be the day
for subsequent meetings."

   The increase of the number to ten never took place.
One addition was shortly afterwards made -- Mr. W.
Spottiswoode ; but no decision was come to respecting

                                                   133

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

tion was raised and discussed ; but no one was found

who fulfilled the two requirements --that he should be

of adequate mental calibre and that he should be on

terms of intimacy with the existing members. For the

Club was intended to be, first of all, an assemblage of

friends desirous of meeting one another more frequently
than their daily avocations and many engagements
allowed them to do in the absence of pre-arrangement.
Eventually, the subject of a tenth member was tacitly

dropped.
   Some time elapsed before we named ourselves. " The

Thorough Club " was one title suggested ; but the his
torical associations negatived it. In a letter to my

father quoted above, I have used the name " Blastoder

mic "--a figure of speech alluding to the truth that the

blastoderm is that part of an ovum in which the rudi
ments of future organization first appear. Who pro

posed this I do not remember, but it was not adopted.

So long did our anonymous character continue, that at

length it was remarked (I believe by the wife of one of

the members, Mrs. Busk) that we might as well name
ourselves after the unknown quantity. The suggestion

was approved, and we became the X Club. Beyond the

advantage that it committed us to nothing, this name

had the further advantage that it made possible a brief,
and, to a stranger, an enigmatical, notice of our meet

ings. A few days before the first Thursday in the

month, the secretary for the time being sent to each

member a post-card on which was written .r = 5 ; or

whatever other day of the month the first Thursday fell

upon. Doubtless many speculations and many absurd
conclusions were caused in the minds of servants who

134

/Et. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

   The Club had no rules, save the interdict upon non-
attendance for any other reason than illness or absence
from town. Nor had it any avowed purpose beyond the
periodic assembling of friends. True, we had originally
intended to discuss scientific and philosophical ques
tions ; and one of our members continued, for some
time, to press us to carry out our intention. But though
scientific questions often cropped up, and led to con
versations, they were never formally introduced. Time
was spent chiefly in lively talk, of which badinage formed
a considerable element.

   There did, however, grow up something like a func

tion. It became the custom to discuss, after dinner, the

affairs of the scientific societies: sometimes those of
the British Association, but more frequently those of
the Royal Society. These consultations had their

effects, though in what exact way I do not know. In

course of time the existence of the Club became known
in the scientific world, and it was, we heard, spoken of

with bated breath -- was indeed, I believe, supposed to

exercise more power than it did.

   It is not surprising that its influence was felt. Among

its members were three who became Presidents of the
Royal Society, and five who became Presidents of the
British Association. Of the others one was for a time
President of the College of Surgeons ; another Presi
dent of the Chemical Society ; and a third of the Math
ematical Society. To enumerate all their titles, and
honours, and the offices they filled, would occupy too

much space. Of the nine, I was the only one who

was fellow of no society, and had presided over noth

                                                         135

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

occasionally invited men of mark, home or foreign, as
guests. Of the one class I may name, Prof. Clifford,
Prof. Masson, and Mr. Robert Lowe (afterwards Lord
Sherbrooke) ; and of the other class M. Auguste Laugel,
Prof. Helmholtz, and Professor Asa Gray. In the
course of many years there were various others whose

names I do not recall.
   Our monthly meetings extended from October to

June, and towards the close of June we had, for many
years, a supplementary meeting which was something
more than a dinner. On each of these occasions the
married members brought their wives; and thus some

times raised the number of the party to fifteen. We
left town early on the Saturday afternoon for some
promising place, and boated or rambled before our din
ner; drove on Sunday to a pleasant spot where we pic-
nic'd; dined together again on the Sunday evening; and
then some returned to town while others remained over

Sunday night. On the first occasion we took up our
quarters at Skindle's Hotel, on the banks of the Thames

at Taplow, and had our picnic-luncheon on the Sunday
under Burnham Beeches ; and once, if not twice, after

wards, we went to the same place. Another year saw

us at Windsor ; on which occasion we picnic'd in a dis

tant part of the forest. And when the Oatlands Park

Hotel was utilized, St. George's Hill was the place for

our Sunday's luncheon. Though most of us at that

time were not young, we were in tolerable vigour ; and

these meetings, enlivened by the presence of ladies, were

very enjoyable. Sometimes at our picnics a volume of

poems was produced. Either in Windsor Forest or at

St. George's Hill, Huxley, I remember, read aloud to

136

Mt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

eral motives caused the cessation of these meetings in
the country.

   The Club has now (September 1887) nearly completed
its twenty-third year. Time has of late been diminish
ing our number. Spottiswoode was the first to leave us

-- dying prematurely : I think, before he was sixty. Last
year we lost Busk, but at a good age, -- seventy-six I

believe. Of the remaining seven there are but three in
good health. But our ranks have never been thinned by
desertions or by differences. During these twenty-three
years nothing has occurred to disturb the harmony of
our meetings.

   The following is an extract from a letter to Youmans
dated 17 December 1864. The last paragraph is the

one of chief interest ; but, while I am quoting, I may as

well quote some preceding ones, which are not without
their significance.
" Again let me express my obligations for your unwearied
exertions on behalf, both of my books and my pecuniary

interests. . . .
   There are two things that strike me respecting the ac

counts. . . . One is that there seems to have been forgotten
my protest against being credited with the proceeds of the
sale of the re-printed Essays, at this early period of the
transaction. Let me remind you that I declined receiving
the profits of the reprints, until after those gentlemen who
had guaranteed the cost of the stereotype plates had been
reimbursed. . . . The amount of 242 dollars 81 cents, cred
ited to me should be credited to them. . . .

" The prospects of The Reader about which I told you, are

highly encouraging. Huxley, Tyndall, Cairns, Galton and
Pollock are the editors. And among other proprietors of

                                                   137

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

Lubbock and Mill, whose consent to become a proprietor I

obtained a few days ago."

    The Reader, here referred to, was a weekly paper (of
The Spectator form) predominantly literary, and in a
smaller degree scientific, which had been founded a year
or two before by Mr. T. Hughes, q.c, Mr. Ludlow, and

others who, dissatisfied with existing papers of the class,

were desirous of having one which should be candid
and impartial in its criticisms, and liberal in its views of

affairs --not political affairs so much as social affairs.

As habitually happens with new journals, it inflicted

considerable loss upon its founders ; and, weary of what

I suppose at length seemed to them no longer a hope

ful undertaking, they were anxious to get out of it-- if

possible by sale. Mr. J. N. Lockyer, who edited the

scientific department, giving reports of societies &c,

was anxious that the paper should not drop, and was

energetic in getting together a new proprietary. Among

others he came to me, and, entering into his scheme

sympathetically, I canvassed sundry of my friends with
success. I took a share myself and induced Tyndall to

take one. At my instigation Mr. Octavius Smith took

several, I forget how many ; Mr. Huth took five ; a friend
at Hendon, Mr. James Campbell took two; and I suc
ceeded in inducing Mr. Mill also to become a proprietor.

The following letter to him contains some details con

cerning our plan.
   " The annexed circular briefly indicates an undertaking

into which a number of those who have at heart the advance

of liberal opinion are entering with much zeal. It is felt
that if this opportunity of establishing on a safe footing an

organ of scientific thought and of conscientious literary crit

icism is lost, it may be long before this very desirable object

138

JEt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

The editorial organization is highly satisfactory. Profess

or Huxley will edit the department of Science aided by
Prof. Tyndall. Mr. Francis Galton takes the department of

Travels and Ethnology. Professor Cairns that of Political

Economy and Political Philosophy. And Mr. Frederick

Pollock [now Sir Frederick] that of Belles Lettres.

The paper is not yet quite paying its expenses; but it is

scarcely to be doubted that with the concentration of faculty

now about to be engaged upon                    will soon do so and may
            £                                   ;
                                                                 ;
                        :
                                                                           a
                                 a

                                        it it,
                                           it
not improbably become good investment. The paper has

been purchased for £2250, and has been resolved to issue

40 shares of 100 calling up £80 on each so as to leave
about £1000 working capital. Thirty-four are already

taken up.

It proposed at the beginning of the year to commence
is

new series of the paper and       suggested that at that time,
            ;

                    it

                           is

along with the prospectus of the paper as re-organized and

re-officered, there should be published the names of the pro                               is
prietors, as an indication of the course which the paper
likely to take. Your name would add greatly to our

prestige."

regretted afterwards that took so active part in
I

             a

                          it

                                  I

                                               it

                                                                                        a
the business; for ended in disappointment and loss.

Just as the new staff was starting, when there was no
longer time for consideration, was found needful to

appoint     general editor. Partly because he was an

amateur, and partly because he was not fully in sym

pathy with us, the general editor did not conduct mat

ters as intended and our own aims, as well as the ex
            ;

                a

                                                            ;

                                                    a it
                                                                                      a
pectations of our subscribers, were balked. After

period of decline professional editor was appointed

and things improved somewhat but was too late.

Eventually we made over the paper to Mr. Bendyshe,

                             139

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY             [1864-67

It seems that we were not daunted, however, as wit

ness the following extract from a letter to Youmans

written on January 14, 1867:--

   " An attempt is being made here to establish a scientific

journal, to do what The Reader was intended to do. My
friend Mr. Campbell came to me the other day, proposing to

give £1000 towards the capital, if such a thing were at
tempted. I mentioned it at the X, and the notion was well
received. I propose that we shall take a year or so to

organize matters, before making a start; and get our scien

tific friends throughout the kingdom to canvass their local

ities, so as to get a constituency to start with."

  I had utterly forgotten this scheme, and, by implica

tion, do not remember what resulted. Possibly the

movement was that which ended in the establishment of

Nature.                                   to say that,

   Concerning The Reader I have omitted   I gave a lit
though I took no part in the management,

tle aid in the way of contributions. While it was in our

hands I wrote for it four articles -- two political and two

scientific.

   Save the articles just named, which were of course
short, no writings for periodicals had been undertaken

by me since 1860. A desire to make as rapid progress

as my health would permit with my life-work, led me
to negative all solicitations. But now, besides the above-

named exceptions, there came a more important excep

tion.

   The Fortnightly Review had recently been established.
Lewes, who was its first editor, had for some time

wished me to write for it. I demurred for the reason

             140

Mr. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

demur, had it not been for a cause described thus in a
letter home dated 15 May, 1865:--
" Lewes has induced me to reply to Mill's misrepresentation

of me in his book on Hamilton. My reply will appear in the

Fortnightly Review some two months hence."

   Not long afterwards, having occasion to write to Mill
on some other matter, I named the fact that I was about
to answer him. He made this response :--

" Nothing can be more agreeable to me than to hear that

you are going to answer me in the Fortnightly Review. I
Ifhope you will not spare me.
                               you make out so strong a

case (and no one is more likely to do so if it can be done)

as to make it absolutely necessary for me to defend myself,

I shall perhaps do so through the same Review; but not
without a positive necessity. I have had enough for the

present, of writing against a friend and ally."

   The following paragraph from a letter to my father,
written on July 10, says, in connexion with the mat
ter: --

" I dined with Mill yesterday, along with Bain and some
others, and spent a very pleasant evening. As I remarked

to him, it is rather curious that the day on which I first paid
a visit to him should be the day on which I had just revised

the proof of my article against him."

  I may here add that on sundry later occasions dur

ing Mr. Mill's residence at Blackheath, and subse

quently when he took a flat in Victoria Street, West

minster, I had the pleasure of dining with him. Among
those whom I met there at intervals were Mr. and Mrs.
Grote, Professor Cliffe Leslie, Lord and Lady Amber-

ley, and, several times, Prof. Bain and his wife. These

gatherings had not been long commenced or recom

141

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

India House ; for after their marriage he and Mrs. Mill
led a recluse life. It was, I believe, some years after
her death before he began to receive friends. In man
ner he was quiet and unassuming. His face gave con

stant evidence of the extent to which in later life, as in

his earlier life, his nervous system had been overtaxed ;
for he had frequent twitchings of some facial muscles.

Another trait of expression I can recall: there was a

certain habitual setting of the lips, implying, as it
seemed to me, a conscious self-restraint. Too stern a

discipline in his boyhood, and perhaps too serious a

view of things in his later years, put, I think, an undue
check on the display of pleasurable feelings. I do not

remember his laugh ; and my impression is that though

he appreciated good things he did not laugh heartily.
In fact his mental attitude as expressed in manner and
conversation, was much the same as that shown by his
address as Lord Rector at St. Andrews, which seemed

to imply that life is for learning and working. Though,
being a Utilitarian, knowledge and action must have

been regarded by him as subordinate to the gaining of

happiness, immediate or remote ; yet, practically, this

ultimate purpose seemed to be ignored. But though in

him the means to happiness had come to occupy the
foreground of consciousness almost to the extent of
thrusting out the end, just as it does in the man of busi
ness who thinks only of making money, and almost for
gets the uses of the money ; yet he differed widely in

the respect that this absorption in learning and working
was not for self-benefit, but for the benefit of mankind.

   Reverting to the matter from which this sketch of

Mill has led me to digress, I have to add that the article

142

Mt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

upon he sent me the copy of a note which he proposed

to add to a new edition of his work on Hamilton, then

in the press, correcting the mis-statement of my view,

on which his argument against me in his Logic was

based. As this note did not rightly recognize the nature

of the mis-statement, I wrote to him pointing out more

clearly what this was. There presently came a reply ac

knowledging the error. I quote a sentence for the pur

pose of exhibiting his candour.

" It is evident that I have again a misapprehension of your

opinion to confess and correct, since you do not acknowledge

it as yours in the mode in which it is stated by me."

Though it is three months later in date, I may fitly add

here a relevant passage from a letter to my father writ
        October 3:--
ten on  Mill has just sent   me  the  sixth  edition  of  his  Logic,
" John

containing, among other changes, considerable modification

in the chapter which he devotes to the question at issue

...between us. He seeks to meet some of the arguments of my
article in the Fortnightly.      I am quite satisfied with the

present aspect of the controversy."

   And thus ended a discussion which had been com
menced by my essay on " The Universal Postulate,"

published in The Westminister Review in 1853.

  Soon after the article was issued, I became aware that
there existed good reason for writing it. I am reminded
of this discovery by the following extract which I find in
a l"etItegravheoma edindnaeterdto15YoMumayan: --s last Friday, and asked, to

meet him, Huxley, Tyndall, Hooker, Bain, Lewes, and Mas-

son. It went off very well."
Why this extract serves as a reminder is not very mani

                                 143

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

Youmans expressed that I had made this rejoinder to
Mill's reply ; and his satisfaction was due to the fact that

the rejoinder would dissipate a misapprehension current

in America. That I had said nothing, was there under
stood to imply that I had nothing to say. Probably

here, too, my silence was construed in this way.

   One of the punishments of authorship, or, at any rate,

authorship of certain kinds, is the almost inevitable sub
jection to alternative evils -- those inflicted by declining
controversy, and those inflicted by engaging in it. That
which one constantly sees in oral disputes (that he who
has the last word leaves on auditors the impression of

having had the best of the argument) holds, too, of dis
putes carried on in print -- holds even where the last
word is also the first word ; that is, where no notice is

taken. The tendency to interpret absence of reply into
inability to reply, is very general and almost irresistible.

Even I have found myself on more than one occasion

supposing that when no answer came no sufficient an

swer could be given; though I well know that there are

commonly other causes. One is pre-occupation. An
other is the belief that time spent in controversy is

usually wasted. Opponents as candid and conscientious
as Mill, in whom the love of truth predominates over
the love of victory, are rarely met with. Hence the
probabilities always are that in defence of the original

misrepresentations (and most controversies arise out of
misrepresentations), fresh misrepresentations will be
made, and new issues raised, time after time ; until the
original question is lost sight of and the thing ends in
unsettled side-issues.

   And yet, strong as are the reasons for avoiding con

144

JEt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

even stronger; for an unanswered objection or unrecti-
fied mis-statement is often extremely mischievous. For

example, I am well aware that criticisms made upon the

theory concerning our space-consciousness set forth in
the Principles of Psychology, which might be effectually
disposed of, have for years had a damaging effect on
the estimate of the book.

   My summer and autumn movements this year will be
sufficiently indicated by the following extracts from let
ters to my father, of which the first, dated July 4, gives
a key to the rest.

  " I met Mr. Smith last night at an election meeting of J. S.

Mill's supporters. [Mill was just then a candidate for West

minster, which he afterwards represented in Parliament].
He asked me to go to Scotland. They are to leave in about

a fortnight, and I am to join them early. I shall therefore

probably come down to Derby about the close of next week,
and spend a week or so with you before going North."

   The next was written on the 10th.
" I had given notice to Mrs. Sharpe to leave at the end of
this week. But if you will come up here, I will stay for a few
days longer, so that you may have a week in town. The
Youmanses will probably leave for Switzerland in a week
or ten days. You could, after being a week here, go on to
Brighton or elsewhere, if you felt so disposed."

   He came, and I, after a time, went to Derby. In a
letter to him written thence, giving an account of my

mother's health, I find the passage: --

" I voted for Evans and Colville on Saturday. You have

probably seen before now that they were returned by small
majorities."

This was the only vote for a Member of Parliament I ever

gave. Certain property which had come to me from my

                  53 145

                AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY          [1864-67

uncle William, gave me a qualification; and when I
shortly afterwards sold this property, I was disqualified.

Though since that time I have had a qualification in
London, and might have registered, I have never done

so. Not that the election of Liberal or Conservative has

been a matter of indifference to me; for, speaking gen

erally, my sympathies have been with the Liberal candi

date. But in most cases my dissent from the beliefs

tacitly held by both political parties on the question of

the functions of the State, which I regard as the ques
tion of most importance, has been such that I have had

little motive to support one candidate rather than an
other. In fact as, of late years, Liberals have vied with

Conservatives in extending legislative regulations in all

directions, there has been nothing to choose between

them, and therefore, to me, no temptation to vote.

  Returning from this parenthetic explanation, I may

quote next from a letter dated 6 August.

  " I arrived at Ardtornish last night and was cordially
received. The Earps and I [Mr. Earp was my friend Lott's

senior partner] arrived at Oban on the Wednesday evening

as intended, and spent Thursday and Friday very pleasantly,

partly in showing them the neighbourhood and partly in

sea-fishing. The weather was very fine, while with you we

hear it was raining. On Saturday they started with me by

the steamer that goes to Staffa, which was to drop me at

Ardtornish in going, but in consequence of the tides it went
round Mull the other way and I had to go to Staffa with
                                  was not sorry --
them. As I had never before seen
                a
worth seeing."
                              I iIt,
                                            I

                                                                    it
                                                                               is
   Written on the 31st, saying that was about to leave
Ardtornish next day, letter also said that thought of

                146

Mt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

This intention was fulfilled; as witness the following

lines sent from Durham on the 4th September: --
   " I stopped on my way at Dunbar, Berwick, Newcastle,

Tynemouth. From this picturesque old place I think of

going to-morrow to Barnard Castle and thence to Richmond.
I shall probably be home on Thursday or Friday."

   After spending a little time at Derby, I reached town

on the 1 8th of September, and was settled in Kensing
ton Gardens Square on the 22nd.

   The first quotable passage from home correspondence
after that date, is one written on October 3, as follows:--

   " Inclosed I send you a letter from Ernest Renan, the

French Professor who has recently obtained so much celeb

rity by his Vie de Jesus. If you can make it all out, you

will see that it is very satisfactory --especially the intimation
that First Principles is likely to be translated into French."

   This was the first intimation of the kind which came to
me from abroad; but the French did not after all take
the initiative. This was taken by the Russians. In the

following March I received from St. Petersburg informa

tion that translations were in progress, or had been pub

lished, I forget which; and several Russian translations

had made their appearance during the five years which
elapsed before there appeared the first French translation.

   Nothing further worthy of record is mentioned in cor
respondence until December 18, when, in a letter home,
there occurs a passage describing something new in the

course of my work :--
" I have been very busy lately with the microscope studying

the circulating system in plants, and have arrived at some

interesting results. I shall probably devote myself to it a

                                      H7

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

houses at Kew, a large number of cuttings, chiefly of

aberrant types of plants, and passed much of my time at

home in experimenting upon them. After my return to

town the investigations continued. A letter of January
30, 1866, says: --

   " I am still busy with my microscope : usually working with

it at the same time that I am dictating ; but, as a result which

you may imagine, dictating slowly, and not very well. As I
write this, I have under the microscope a very beautiful

preparation, serving very admirably as evidence of my

hypothesis."

  To Professor Youmans on March 2, I described a

further phase of the matter: --
" I should have written to you again before this time, but that
I have been of late so very busy with certain investigations

in Vegetal Physiology, of which your sister [she had re
mained in England] has possibly by this time told you

something; and during the last month more especially I have

been compelled to devote myself wholly to them, in conse

quence of having committed myself to a paper for the

Linnaean Society on the subject. This I read last night.
It passed off very satisfactorily. I shall of course send you a
copy of the paper when it is printed ; but as there will be a
plate of illustrations it will probably be a long while before

you receive it."

   The inquiry which came to issue in this manner, had

arisen in the course of my work. When treating of phys

iological development, something had to be said about

circulation in plants. Botanical books gave no accounts

from which I could frame an intelligible conception; and
I found it needful to look into the facts for myself. There

was a manifest inadequacy in the accepted statement that
the movement of liquid is through the wood; for there

148

iEt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

plants which are still succulent, and in those parts of adult
plants which have not yet formed wood? Is circulation
in these cases carried on by diffusion from cell to cell,

or is it carried on through definite canals? If in young

tissues definite canals exist, as they do, it would be
strange did the moving liquids neglect these and pass
through the general substance, which is comparatively

difficult to permeate. But I did not argue thus ; though

a certain friend of mine, who regards me as prone to

a priori reasoning, would doubtless suppose that I did.
My argument was wholly inductive and unguided by hy
pothesis ; for, until observations and experiments had

suggested one, no view at all was entertained by me.
The result, however, was to show that the inference

which might have been drawn a priori was true. In young
plants; in the leaves and soft shoots of old ones;
throughout all parts of adult plants that remain succu
lent, like the balsams; and in such aberrant plants as
cactuses, which, between their joints, are long before they
develop wood; the vessels are the channels which the
sap follows. But whatever wood is formed or forming, it

becomes the channel followed by the sap: the adjacent

vessels, deserted by liquid, become filled with air -- not,

as was supposed, because they are air-carriers, but simply
as dead or disused organs.

   This inquiry developed into further ones respecting the
mechanics of the circulation and the forces which cause
and aid it. Incidentally some traits of structure, too,
were observed. Details will be found in the Appendix

to Principles of Biology, Vol. II.*

   * One and twenty years have elapsed since the paper above described

was published. To my surprise I have nowhere seen mentioned any

                                                   149

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                                              [1864-67

  Conforming to its title, this chapter ought, I suppose,

to include an account of all that occurred while the sec
ond volume of the Biology was being written. But, be
sides entailing undue length, entire conformity to its title

would make it include sundry events momentous enough

to occupy places by themselves. I therefore pass over a

period intervening between the reading of the paper just
described, and the completion of the book: thinking it

best to say here what little has to be said about the book

as eventually published.

   Few parts    of my   work give me       more pleasure                                                     in the
execution.             first division, "  Morphological                                                     Devel
              In the

opment," certain views which had long been waiting for

full expression found a place. There came the oppor

tunity for, and indeed almost the necessity for, a specula-

passing references to the paper have, I believe, been made ; but the text
books continue to repeat substantially the same story as before. I have

lately referred to the most recent authoritative work -- the translation of
Sachs On the Physiology of Plants; and in it 1 find it still stated that
the circulation is through the wood : the statement being stretched so
as cover the facts by saying that it is always through lignified tissue,
and including under that name vascular bundles as well as wood-cells --

a proceeding which seems to me about as reasonable as it would be to

group a man's ears with his bones because both have a basis of cartilage.

Twice during the interval I have myself verified the leading proposition

of the paper in a simple and conclusive way. The way is this :-- Choose

a young plant some three or four inches high, in a greenhouse where it

has been grown in soft, prepared soil. Insert a trowel at such distance

from it as not to touch its rootlets, and take it up bodily along with the

mass of soil imbedding its roots. Immerse the mass in a vessel of

water ; so that the loose soil may fall away and leave the roots bare.

Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with a strong decoction of logwood ; insert

in it the roots of the young plant ; and there leave  for, say, twelve
              a
                                                                           is it,

                                                                                                         ;
hours. Then cut through obliquely the stem or a leaf stalk, and apply

to the cut surface little chloride of tin in solution. Immediately the

characteristic purple will be seen in the vascular bundles and micro

scopic examination will show that the coloured liquid confined to the

                          150

JEt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY

tion concerning the modes in which the two higher types

of plants, endogens and exogens, have been evolved out

of a lower type of plant. That there has been such an

evolution is an inevitable implication; and a probable

mode in which it has taken place had to be shown. Orig

inally standing quite apart from this, but eventually be

I it,
                 a
                                                is

                                                     I
coming united to was conclusion towards which

had for some years been gravitating respecting the rela

tions between the foliar and axial parts of plants, and in

support of which had collected many specimens: the

conclusion being that the two are not primordially dis

tinct, as was alleged, but that the foliar organ the prim

itive unit, and the axial organ the derivative. Then, too,

there had to be worked out under the general head of
" Morphological Differentiation " that hypothesis re

specting the shapes of organisms and their parts, which,
first reached in 1851, was sketched out in the " Law of

Organic Symmetry" in 1858; and beyond the develop

ing of this in relation to the external shapes of organisms

and their parts, there came the extension of to the
                                   it

shapes of certain internal parts.

   Scarcely less interesting to me was the subject of
" Physiological Development," forming the next divi

sion. The point of view from which the phenomena were

contemplated, was, of course, the same as that from which

the preceding group of phenomena were contemplated.

How are physiological differentiations to be interpreted
in terms of the re-distribution of matter and motion -- as

consequent, that is, upon the relations of parts to inci

dent forces? For clearly,       the survival of the fittest
                           if
                                  is

                                                                               a
among organisms as wholes,         to be regarded as

process of equilibration between actions in the environ

                           151

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1864-67

modifications of their parts, external and internal, be re
garded as survivals of structures the reactions of which
are in equilibrium with the actions they are subject to.
This general view had to be carried out in the interpre
tation of such contrasts as those between outer and inner

tissues, and those between parts of outer tissues exposed
to one set of forces and parts exposed to another. And
then, in animals, it had to be similarly carried out in its
application to internal organs: especially those of the
alimentary canal and its appendages. Throughout all the
interpretations there ran the general thesis that, while
the majority of these differentiations are indirectly
caused by survival of the fittest, there is part of them,
and that, too, the primordial part, due to the direct action
of incident forces.

   Lastly, under the head of " Laws of Multiplication "
came a division in which there had to be set forth in detail

the idea originally sketched out some fifteen years before,
in the " Theory of Population deduced from the General
Law of Animal Fertility." Separated from crudities and
superfluities, the idea withstood a wider comparison with
the facts ; and while apparently applicable to the organic
world as a whole, seemed also in harmony with the evi

dence presented by races of men differently conditioned.

Here, on recalling the matter, I am struck by the fact,
which I have never before observed, that long before

reaching the general conception of Evolution as set forth
in terms of the re-distribution of matter and motion, there

was a manifest tendency to contemplate organic phenom

ena from this same physical point of view. For the vari
ous conclusions reached were so many corollaries from

the doctrine that in proportion as the matter and motion

152

Mt. 44-47] ANOTHER VOLUME OF THE BIOLOGY
amounts, the amounts available for the maintenance of
the species are small, and vice versa: the implication be
ing that fertility is inversely oroportionate to the size and
heterogeneity of the species and the activity and com
plexity of its life.

  Am I going to say something about the reception of
the volume? No: for a very sufficient reason --it had no

reception. In other words it was not sent round to the
press. My decision not to send it was made after receiving
definite proof that readers had been deterred from look
ing at my books by the totally wrong conceptions of them
they had gained from reviews. This proof was given by
Professor Bain. He told me that during a conversation
with John Mill, in which the Principles of Psychology was
referred to, he, Bain, confessed that he had not read it.
Mill expressed great surprise ; whereupon Bain explained

that the impression gained from notices of it had deterred
him. He went on to say that when, subsequently, he read
the book, he found to his astonishment that the reviews
had not given him the remotest conception of its con

tents. Receiving as I thus did a verification of a belief
towards which I was tending, I directed my publishers

not to issue any copies of the second volume of the

                                                   153

                 CHAPTER XXXVIII.

                     IMPENDING CESSATION.

                       1866. Mi. 46.

  Of the various occurrences occupying the hiatus indi

cated towards the close of the last chapter, the first in
order of time was a crisis in my career which happened
at the beginning of 1866.

   During the preceding year, my attention was decisively
drawn to the fact that my expenditure, though modest
in amount, continually outran my income, and forced me
to draw upon capital more frequently or more seriously.

A letter recalls the fact that early in 1863, the subscribers

to my serial, originally 430 in number, had fallen to 350:

the ending of First Principles having, I presume, been an

occasion for the withdrawals of many, and perusal of the
early part of the Biology, uninteresting to the majority,
having caused further withdrawals. Moreover, among
the remaining names not a few had to be crossed out after
futile efforts made by the publishers to obtain payments
of subscriptions in arrear.

   The difficulty was becoming otherwise complicated.
My father was now 75; and though he maintained his
erect carriage and preserved tolerable health, his ener
gies, bodily and mental, were of course flagging. As a
consequence, while his professional engagements fell off,

                                                   154

/Et. 46]  IMPENDING CESSATION

him: so much so, indeed, that in more than one letter I

advised him to retire altogether, rather than make him

self ill. My mother, too, had now become a confirmed
invalid; and illness is always expensive. Thus their re

quirements were increasing at the same time that the

means of meeting them were decreasing; and in the ab

sence of returns from teaching, my father's other sources

of income were obviously insufficient. Of course the
result was that I had to aid; and the required aid was

certain to become greater year by year.

   During his then recent stay in England, I had talked

the matter over with my friend Prof. Youmans -- prob

ably in the course of the week he spent with me in Ken

sington Gardens Square. Such, at least, is the implica

tion of the following passage from a letter written to him

on October 28, 1865.

   " Since you left I have obtained from the share-broker at

Derby, through whose hands most of my money transactions

have gone, the data I needed ; and, joining them with my
bank account and other memoranda, I have been able to
make a tolerably definite calculation of my losses. I found

that my guess was not far from the mark. It turns out that

since 1850 I have sunk nearly £1,100 in writing and publish

 ing books; and the amount will considerably exceed £ 1,100

by the time I have finished the volume now in prog

 ress. . . .

   Not finding the result any more encouraging than I sup
posed, I have not, as you may expect, found any reason to

 modify my intention of issuing, along with No. 15, the notice

 of cessation at the close of the volume."

    This intention was carried out. Before the notice was

 issued, much anxious thought and no little painful feel
 ing were passed through. It was grievous thus to give

          155

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY         [1866

had been satisfactorily executed. But I had either to go

on wasting away what little I possessed and neglecting

my responsibilities, or else to abandon the undertaking;

and I sorrowfully decided upon the last.

It shortly appeared, however, that the undertaking was

not to be abandoned without an effort being made to

prevent the abandonment. The first indication of such

an effort came to me in the shape of a remarkable pro

posal from Mr. J. S. Mill. Usually I find it desirable to

omit unimportant parts of letters quoted; but here it

seems as well to give in full Mr. Mill's letter and my

reply to it.       " Blackheath Park,

                                                                         Feb. 4, 1866.

Dear Sir,

        On arriving here last week, I found the December
livraison of your Biology, and I need hardly say how much

I regretted the announcement in the paper annexed to it.

What the case calls for, however, is not only regret, but

remedy ; and I think it is right that you should be indemnified

by the readers and purchasers of the series for the loss you

have incurred by it. I should be glad to contribute my part,

and should like to know at how much you estimate the loss,

and whether you will allow me to speak to friends and obtain

subscriptions for the remainder. My own impression is that

the sum ought to be raised among the original subscribers.

  In the next place, I cannot doubt that the publication in

numbers though it may have been the best means which

presented itself at the time, has had an unfavourable effect

on the sale, and that a complete treatise with your name to

it would attract more attention, obtain more buyers, and

would be pretty sure to sell an edition in a few years. What

I propose is that you should write the next of your treatises,

              156

Mr. 46]    IMPENDING CESSATION

should engage, after such length of time as may be agreed on,

to make good any deficiency that may occur, not exceeding

a given sum, that sum being such as the publisher may think

sufficient to secure him. With this guarantee you could have

your choice of publishers, and I do not think it likely that
there would be any loss, while I am sure that it could in no
case be considerable. I beg that you will not consider this

proposal in the light of a personal favour, though even if it
were I should still hope to be permitted to offer it. But it is
nothing of the kind,-- it is a simple proposal of co-operation

 for an important public purpose, for which you give your

labour and have given your health.
                                        I am

                Dear Sir,

                Very truly yours

                        J. S. Mill."

The answer I wrote to this letter ran as follows :--

                                 " 88 Kensington Garden Square,

Dear Sir,       7 Feby. 1866

         I scarcely know how properly to respond to your very

kind letter of the 4th ; or what to say in due acknowledg

ment of its very generous proposals. Though you are so

good as to represent them as made on public grounds rather

than personal ones, I naturally cannot wholly dissociate the

two; and cannot avoid, therefore, feeling how much I am

indebted to you for so noble a self-sacrifice as that which you

offer to make in furtherance of my scheme. I fear, however,

that there are insurmountable reasons and feelings of mine,

standing in the way of the arrangement you suggest.

   In the first place I should be averse to either asking, or

having asked on my behalf, any compensation from the sub

scribers for the losses my work has entailed on me ; even

were those losses of the kind you infer them to be, which in

           157

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1866

progress that will cost more for printing, paper, illustrations

&c.than will be received from the subscribers. Preceding vol
umes have done something more than repay their expenses --

the last of them, however, but very little. The losses which

deter me from proceeding, are those resulting from unre-

munerated labour, and the continual sinking of what prop

erty I possess, to meet my necessary expenses. My whole
course since 1850, when I began publishing, has been that

of doing work that brought either loss or no adequate

return ; and I have been enabled to continue this course only

by the accident that bequests from relations, which have in

the meantime come to me, have sufficed to eke out my

resources. Had it not been for a legacy from an uncle in

1853, I should not have been able to write the Principles of
Psychology; and I should inevitably have been brought to
a stand by pecuniary difficulties in the middle of First Prin

ciples, had it not been that another uncle, who died in 1860,

left me the greater part of his small property : which is, how

ever, at present so burdened with annuities that it brings me

in very little. The result has been that all along I have been
obliged to go on eating up my capital -- a process which of

course advances with increasing rapidity.

   This course I have been persevering in, hoping that even
tually the tide would turn, and that I should be no longer
obliged to continue sinking what little I possess. But finding,

in the course of last year, that the list of subscribers was

continuing to diminish, and that the sales of the bound vol

ume of the Biology had not reached 100 in the lapse of 12

months, I began to hesitate. On getting together all the
data, I found that since 1850 I had lost nearly £1,100. Seeing

that I was still going on losing, and that my sinking of

capital was becoming more and more serious, I resolved that
I would desist. Thus you see that the difficulty is consider

ably greater than the notice of discontinuance had led you

to infer ; and I fear that the plan you have so kindly pro

158

/Et. 46]  IMPENDING CESSATION

addressed to Messrs. Williams and Norgate, or to me, have
proposed arrangements for avoiding the cessation. To these

letters I have furnished Messrs. Williams and Norgate with
a general form of reply, stating that -- 1st. The doubling the

subscription, as suggested by some, would probably do as

much harm as good. 2nd. The raising a publication-fund, as

suggested by others, was a proposition I could not entertain.

3rd. That the proposal that each subscriber should obtain

one or more others, was one which, if acted upon generally,
might be effectual ; but that I declined asking the subscribers
to do this; and that any such thing, if done, must be done of

their own accord.

   A few days ago Messrs. Williams and Norgate hinted that

something was likely to be done in pursuance of this last

proposal. But having assumed an absolutely passive atti

tude, I do not know who are moving in the matter, or what

is likely to result.
   While obliged, as you will thus see, to decline the arrange

ment which you have generously offered to make, I shall

ever have pleasurable remembrance of it as a manifestation

of feeling between authors that has rarely been paralleled.

                                I am, dear Sir,

                                                     Very sincerely yours,
                                                        Herbert Spencer."

  I ought to have said, rarely, if ever, paralleled. It may

be doubted whether there was ever before made a

kindred proposal by one author to another: another, too,

with whom he was not in complete agreement.

   Had Mr. Mill been in England at the time when the

notice was issued, a letter from him would probably have

been the first indication received by me of an endeavour
to avert the impending cessation. But, as is implied to

wards the close of my reply, before I received the letter

          159

                        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                  [1866

action. A letter to Prof. Youmans, dated 2 March, 1866,
says :--
" Mill has since called on Williams and Norgate, and is, I

believe, co-operating with those who were previously moving

in the matter; but who they are, and what they are doing, I

do not know."

And then, in a letter of April 10, I find a passage saying
what had been done and what was likely to be done. It
runs as follows: --
" As to the progress of matters here, though I have been

aware from hints dropped for some time past that something

was doing among those interested in preventing the impend

ing stoppage, I did not learn until two days ago, what was the

nature of the course taken ; and when I did learn
                           I                                                              mis

                                                       a
                                                                         it,
                                                                                   a
apprehension very nearly led me to put peremptory stop to

it. Indeed was on my way to the printers with the draft of
             II
an adverse circular, when learnt the true state of the case.
                     ;
It       now probable that, after insisting on certain qualifying

     is

conditions,           may agree to the arrangement that has been

secretly made and which find can hardly resist without
                           I       aI

quarrelling with my friends who have made it.                               seems that
                                                                            It

                                                                                       a
the arrangement has resulted under the pressure of num

ber of persons interested, chiefly wealthy, who were anxious

that something should be done to meet the difficulty and
                                                                            ;

who, under the guidance of Huxley, Tyndall, Busk, Lubbock

and Mill, have arranged to take        large number of copies

  (250) for distribution; and they say that cannot preventI
them. However, shall refrain from opposing the arrange
                        I

ment only on condition of large reduction in the number
                           I
                                a
(down to 150) and the erasure of the names of some of

those concerned" [who,           thought, ought not thus to tax

themselves].

   This arrangement, with the qualifications indicated,

was agreed upon and there was issued circular in con
                        ;

                                                                         a

                                 160

S.t. 46]  IMPENDING CESSATION

and Lubbock (see Appendix C). Naturally my feeling
was one of mingled satisfaction and dissatisfaction -- sat
isfaction, that so much sympathy should be shown me by
distinguished friends, whose measures thus promised to
prevent the suspension; and dissatisfaction, that such
measures should be needful.

   But neither in its original form nor in its modified form
was this arrangement carried out. Before much had
been achieved, there occurred a change in my position
which led me to write a letter expressing the wish that
the circular should be cancelled. This was done by a
second circular (see Appendix C).

  What reason I had for taking this seemingly-strange

step, which undid all that my friends had taken the

          54 161

             CHAPTER XXXIX.

             SAD EVENTS.

             1866-- 67. Mt. 46--47.

Early one morning towards the close of April, I re

ceived a telegram which led me to take the first train to

Derby. The cause will be at once inferred ; and the issue

of that cause will be seen in the following passage from
             Professor Youmans, dated May 7:--
a letter to                                           received
   " Before  you receive this you will probably have

the Derby paper which I posted to you on Friday, containing

a paragraph which you will read with melancholy interest :
a brief tribute of respect to my late father. I was called

down to him by telegraph this day fortnight, and found him
seriously ill, but not, as I supposed, or as any one supposed,

in immediate danger. He got gradually worse, however,

and died on the Thursday night. As you may imagine the

shock has been great and has unnerved me greatly. Indeed

I found my system running down so rapidly, and such
Iserious symptoms showing themselves, that
                                            have been

obliged to come up to town for a few days change of scene,

lest I should fall into some nervous condition out of which it

would take me a long time to recover.

Fortunately we are able to keep this sad loss from my

mother. She has gradually fallen into that state of mental

debility and forgetfulness which renders it easy to evade her

inquiries. Not remembering things for more than a few

             162

JEt. 46-47J  SAD EVENTS

habitually under the impression that it is but a few hours

since she saw my father. It is a great satisfaction that she

is saved from the suffering which knowledge of the truth

would give her.

  I return to Derby probably at the close of this week."

   But for an imprudence, my father might well have lived

another ten years. Some workmen were altering the

drainage on his property, and he, not duly heeding the
bitter East wind, stood by giving directions: being at

the time in a depressed state, caused by long-continued

anxiety about my mother. A resulting congestion, or
inflammation, of the lungs quickly became serious. He

did not die of the disease, however, but of the treatment.

The physician (now long since deceased) believing that
he would die of exhaustion unless he got rest, decided to

administer morphia. Probably he did not allow suf

ficiently for the extreme enfeeblement and for the choked
state of the lungs : for the dose he gave was an overdose

and proved fatal.

  I name this detail as introductory to a detail of more

significance. My father died in a morphia-dream, the
subject of which was the high-handed action of Governor
Eyre in Jamaica. Since the days of the anti-slavery agi

tation he had ever been deeply interested on behalf of
the Negroes; and the Eyre-prosecution, then pending,

greatly occupied his mind. His last audible words con
cerned the controversy which was raging at the time;
and implied a dim idea of his state mingled with the ideas

of his dream ; for they expressed the complaint that when
he was so ill, it was cruel to draw him into an argument

about the matter.

   It was not an unfit ending for a consciousness which

             163

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1866-67

his fellows and those of mankind at large. The ambition

which, when I was a boy, he so often set before me --to be
" a useful member of society "-- was an ambition ever

dominant in himself: too dominant, indeed, for he some
times unduly sacrificed personal welfare to public wel
fare. Would that the world were peopled with such.
What a marvellously different world it would be!

   Though at the time of his death he was seventy-six,

my father had not made a will. I suppose this mattered

little; for the disposition of his property by will would

probably have been the same as that which resulted from

his intestacy.

   Of course the settlement of his affairs kept me a good

deal at Derby; and there by and bye came detentions

caused by the sale of property. A number of small houses
possessed by him I promptly decided not to keep. Even

when an agent is employed to collect rents and look after
minor repairs, small house-property entails on its owner

much trouble and vexation. All through life I had seen

the way in which my father was worried by matters of
business which his agent had to refer to him; and all

through the latter part of his life I had seen the way in

which he was further worried by the interferences of the
sanitary authorities, who were continually insisting on
alterations (some of them made necessary by their own
blunders) and occasionally driving away tenants by the

insanitary results they produced. Not even had I been
likely to live permanently in Derby, would I have con

tinued to own property which, troublesome enough other

wise, had become a source of perpetual exasperations.

   But the care of my mother, which now devolved upon

164

Mt. 46-47]  SAD EVENTS

Derby. Though a good nurse, under the oversight of a
sister-in-law, was to be trusted to a considerable extent,

yet visits by me at short intervals were obviously neces
sary. The carrying on of my work had of course to be

adjusted as best it might. Compromising the require
ments enabled me to diminish the hindrances. During a

fortnight in London, where I had my amanuensis, mate
rials, and sources of information, I prepared sufficient

manuscript to occupy me something like a week at Derby
in revising; and then came another fortnight in London,
followed by another week at Derby.

   Alternations thus arranged, determined the course of

my life during the remainder of 1866 and the first half

of 1867.

   July of this year brought me a great surprise. My
friend Youmans arrived, and was the bearer of startling
intelligence and something more. It appeared that when

the notice of cessation reached him, he determined that
my undertaking should not drop if he could prevent it;
and with characteristic energy he began to provide for
its continuance. Saying nothing to me about the matter,
he had, during the intervening six months, busied him
self in raising a fund which he arranged should come to
me in the form of a testimonial; or rather, in a form

which, as it turned out, left me little choice but to accept.
He handed me a letter from Mr. Robert B. Minturn, of
the firm of Grinnell, Minturn & Co., who had undertaken
to act as a kind of trustee, and who, telling me what the
sympathy of the Americans had prompted them to do,

hoped that I would not prevent their sympathy from tak

ing effect. Unavoidably this action of my American

            165

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1866-67

summer statements concerning the results had appeared
in American journals and had been copied in some Eng
lish journals. These statements were incorrect ; and Prof.
Youmans thought it needful to publish in one of the Lon

don papers a letter containing a correct statement. As this

letter gives the facts in a more authoritative way than any

I can give them myself, it will be best to quote it.

                                                               "Aug. 11. 1866.
   Sir, -- The paragraph which you lately published on the
authority of the American papers, " that Professor Youmans
recently left that country in order to present to Mr. Herbert

Spencer 5,000 dollars and a very valuable gold watch, as a
testimonial from his American admirers," requires some

correction ; as it mis-states both the amount contributed and

my own purpose in coming to this country. The case is this :
-- Nearly all Mr. Spencer's writings have been repub
lished in America, where they have been both widely read

and very highly appreciated. Many of his friends there, feel

ing a deep indebtedness to him for works by which they

knew he had been the loser to a serious amount, thought that

they could not more suitably express their gratitude than
by a substantial testimonial. But knowing that Mr. Spencer
had decisively declined some overtures on the part of his

friends in England, having the kindred purpose of preventing
the cessation of his philosophical series, and preferring not

to be placed in a like predicament, they invested 7,000 dollars
in his name in public securities, which, as they belong to no
one else, he is of course at liberty either to appropriate or

leave to accumulate for the benefit of his heirs.
                                                           E. L. Youmans."

  Thus I was practically put under coercion; for even
could I have decided to baulk my American friends, it

would have been absurd to do this by letting their gift
and its accumulated interest go eventually to an unknown

166

Mi. 46-47]               SAD EVENTS

   The presentation watch named in Prof. Youman's

letter, was one of those manufactured by the Waltham

Watch-Company, at the time when they were making
their reputation -- watches of a quality which they pres

ently ceased to make ; as I learned long afterwards from
their agent over here. It has proved a great treasure as

a time-keeper, and has excited the envy of friends who
have known its performances.*

   In July 1866 the British Association was at Notting

ham. I had never been to one of their meetings. Now,

however, partly because it met so near my home but
chiefly because my friend Youmans wished to be present,

I spent a good many days there: going to and from

Derby every day.
   While recalling the incidents of the occasion, there

comes back to me one which has but little connexion

with the occasion. I have above referred to the fact that

the Eyre-prosecution was then pending, and that hot con
troversies were going on concerning it. These contro
versies arose at times and places often unfit; as I remem
ber happened during a dinner at the house of Dr. Ran

Assom, who entertained daily while the meeting of the

I* find in a letter, written in December, 1880, after the watch had

"Ibeen in my possession fourteen years, a paragraph respecting it which
may fitly be quoted: --  have several times intended to tell you how

wonderfully well my American watch has been going of late. It has

always gone with perfect regularity, either losing a little or gaining a

little ; but of course it has been difficult to adjust its regulator to such a

nicety as that there should be scarcely any loss or gain. This, however,
was done last summer. It was set by the chronometer-maker in July,

and it is now half a minute too slow ; never having varied more than

half a minute from the true time since the period when it was set. This
is wonderful going. As the Admiral says, one might very well navigate
a ship by it." [In 1890 it went with equal nicety: lost 42 seconds in

                         167

       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY    [1866-67

sociation continued. I was taking an active part in the

 matter; having become a member of the Jamaica Com
 mittee, formed for carrying on the prosecution: a com
mittee which, headed by John Mill, was remarkable for
containing all the leading evolutionists-- Darwin, Hux

ley, Wallace, and myself, besides others less known.

Indeed the evolutionists, considering their small num-

)ber, contributed a far larger proportion to the committee

than any other class. I may add here that notwithstand

ing a charge made by Lord Chief Justice Cockburn to
the Grand Jury, thoroughly justifying the prosecution,

and emphatically denying the assumed power of a gov

ernor to proclaim martial law as Governor Eyre had done,

the Grand Jury ignored the bill ; and thus tacitly asserted

that a deputy ruler may rightly suspend the established

law whenever he considers it needful, and set up military

tribunals to hang or shoot or otherwise punish as they

may think well. That cultivated Englishmen should not

have perceived that the real question at issue was whether

free institutions were to be at the mercy of a chief mag
istrate, seems at first marvellous; but it is marvellous

only on the supposition that men's judgments are deter

mined by reason, whereas they are in far larger measure

determined by feelings.

   Of the proceedings of the Association, some few mem

ories  remain. There  Gwroavset,heonpre"siCdoennttiianluiatydd; r"essmobrye  Mr.
(now   Sir William)                                                           in

structive to the uninitiated than to the advanced. There

was a lecture, too, by Dr. (now Sir Joseph) Hooker, nar
rating some results of the Antarctic Expedition. And

then there was the dinner of the Red Lions: an annual

occasion on which the saying Duke est etc. is taken to

                      168

JEt. 46-471  SAD EVENTS

   After the meeting of the Association was over, Prof.

Youmans and I started upon a tour in North Wales
which I induced him to take with me: his assent being,
I suspect, due more to the wish for a favourable occasion

for prolonged talks and consultations, than to a desire

to see the scenery; for his sight had been so impaired

by the chronic ophthalmia which at one time entailed

years of blindness, that he was scarcely able to appreciate

landscape beauties.

   Not pausing till we reached Beaumaris, we spent one

day there, another at Carnarvon, and another if not two
at Bedgellert. Thence an enjoyable coach-drive by Port-
Aberglaslyn, Harlech, and along the sea-coast, brought

us to Aberdovey. Here we took lodgings for a week,

and Mrs. Youmans joined us from London. Reading

and working mainly occupied my energetic friend. Leav

ing him indoors, busy with an article for tht New Eng-

lander, demolishing a critic who had attacked me, I made

use of the out-door opportunities: one day being spent

in a bootless fishing excursion, and another in making
an expedition with Mrs. Youmans to Aberystwith. The

train which, at the end of the week, took my friends
back to London, took me as far as Machynlleth; where

I bade them a temporary good-bye and set out on a pe

destrian tour. The first day's walk, during the greater

part of which I had Cader Idris before me, brought me to
Dolgelly. IBefore the end of the next day reached Bala.
And the day after that saw me at Llangollen; whence I

took the railway for Chester.

  What was my subsequent course I cannot now remem
ber, and there are no letters to remind me. I have long

been under the impression that from 1856 onwards until

             169'

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1866-67

some part of Scotland; but I now incline to think that

in 1866 an exception occurred. I believe that I returned

to Derby, and thence, after a time, to London : possibly

having decided that under the circumstances it was need

ful that I should confine my movements to places within

a day's journey of home.

   On going back and noting my various changes of resi

dence, the reader might reasonably infer that I am by

nature nomadic. But his generalization would be dis
proved by the single fact now to be named. On my re

turn to town towards the end of September 1866, 1 settled
myself at 37 Queen's Gardens, Lancaster Gate, and have

made that my home up to the present time --a period of

over 21 years.
   The house is situated in a salubrious locality, and has

Kensington Gardens within three or four minutes walk.

Experience proved it to be quiet and well managed; and

it contained a group of inmates above the average of
those one finds living en pension. There was a retired

government officer belonging to the Stores Department
-- a Mauritian of French extraction, honourable in feel
ing, a great snuff-taker, and one who regretted that duel
ling had ceased. Next to him came an admiral, who
every day drank the Queen's health, and displayed piety
and militancy in a not unusual combination. Another
naval officer there was who uttered Radical sentiments,

fostered in him, I fancy, by disappointment in his pro

fession, for which he was evidently incompetent; and
there was also a captain in the army, occupied in some
philanthropic work in London. Then came a maiden

lady, between 70 and 80, who had acquired a certain

170

Mr. 46-47]  SAD EVENTS

and had never since added to or modified them. These
were fixtures. After them may be named sundry who
were semi-settled -- the wife of a judge in the West Indies,

staying in England for her health, pretty and inane; an
Indian tea planter, quiet and not unintelligent; an Aus

tralian with wife and daughter, come back to spend his
money. From time to time there were other visitors
from the Colonies-- from New Zealand, from the Cape,
from Canada. Occasionally, too, there were Americans;

of whom I remember the episcopal bishop of Illinois with

his children. And then to these settled and semi-settled,
must be added those who came for short periods -- for

the London season, or for a few weeks. Humdrum was

the circle they formed, as indeed are most social circles.

But on the whole I was tolerably contented with my sur

roundings.

   I have said that 37 Queen's Gardens was the address

of my new abode ; but after a few years this address was

slightly changed. Our hostess, Miss Shickle, took the

next house No. 38, and by a doorway broken through,

united the two houses. Thereafter No. 38 became my
address. As the dining-room and general drawing-room

were in No. 37, No. 38 was quieter; and I was enabled
Ito seclude myself as much as wished. In fact I saw

no more of my fellow guests than one sees of those who

daily come to the tabic d'hote of a Continental hotel. As

the arrangements were such as freed me from all trouble

and provided for my needs satisfactorily, I was never

seriously tempted to make any change.

   At the same time that I settled myself in Queen's
Gardens, I took, at No. 2 Leinster Place, about three

minutes walk off, a room to serve me as a study, with the

            171

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1866-67

collected and arranged all my books, papers, and other

things needful for work; and here I spent my mornings.
I thus protected myself against all interruptions: the

servants at Queen's Gardens being forbidden to give any

further reply to visitors than that I was not at home.

   A blank which occurs here, alike in my memory and

in records, extends to January 14, 1867; at which date

I find that I sent to my American friend a letter con

taining the following passage.

" I think it is since I wrote last, that they have been wanting

me to become a candidate for the professorship of Mental
Philosophy and Logic at University College --a post for
 which they would not have Martineau, who had offered him

self. I declined, however, without hesitation. Since then, I

 have had to resist similar overtures made by Masson, who

 wanted me to stand for the Moral Philosophy chair at Edin

 burgh, which is likely soon to be vacant. One proposal,

however, I have assented to. Mr. Grote wishes to nominate

me on the senate of the London University, when there
occurs an occasion ; and as this will not involve much tax on

 my time, I have made no objection."

    This extract yields me conclusive proof that in re

 spect even of interesting occurrences, my memory has
 in some cases failed utterly. In the absence of the above

passage I should have been not simply unconscious that
 I had ever been asked to become a candidate for a pro

 fessorship, but should not have believed it had it been

 alleged.

    I may add that Mr. Grote's proposal came to nothing.
 Whether the nomination was ever made I do not know,

172

Mr. 46-47]                SAD EVENTS

need no reminder. Had I needed one, however, I should

have found it in my next letter, dated February 25. In
stead of describing it afresh it will be best to describe it

in the words then used to my American friend, as fol
lows :--

   " I am not sure whether I mentioned to you when you
were here, that I had been devising, and was about to have

made, an invalid bed on a new principle. During my father's

brief illness, I was struck with the amount of suffering and

exhaustion entailed on patients when they are very feeble,

by turning them over, raising them up, getting them out of
bed and into it again &c. Thinking over the matter after
my father's death, it seemed to me that it would be very
easy to avoid all these evils, and to make a bed that would
put a patient in any conceivable attitude, and turn him over,
or put him out of bed, without any effort on his part. As

my mother was getting very feeble, and the time seemed

soon likely to come when such a bed would be of advantage

to her, I decided to carry out my idea. In the course of the
autumn I put the working drawings into the hands of a man

in Derby ; and after a great deal of delay, caused partly by

my present frequent absence, in London, and partly by the

difficulty of getting things done just as I wanted, I succeeded,

about a month ago, in getting it completed and put to use.

Since then my mother has been init    and, to my great
                                   a it,

                                       I
satisfaction, likes extremely. Enclosed send you set
                   it                     a
of photographs, which will give you general idea of itsit
                                                  a
construction and the various things will do. Considering

the first made, answers very well; and in making
it
    is
            it
second, can be in several respects so improved as to an

swer perfectly being, at the same time, rendered both lighter
                :

and cheaper. As you will see consists of two frame-works
                          it                              ;

the upper of which  is    hinged in such ways as to admit of

raising the body to any inclination and bending the legs to

                          173

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                     [1866-67

one, rests on a large ball and socket, admitting of movement

in all directions, and admitting of being locked fast in any

position. . . .

  I decided not to take out any protection for the idea : wish
ing that an appliance which will, as I think, so greatly

diminish human suffering, should be sold as cheaply as possi

ble; and I have just been making an agreement with an

invalid bed-maker, binding him down to a moderate rate of

profit. I hope not long hence to send you photographs of the

frame-work in its improved form.

  Meanwhile, if you should think well, you might, when occa

sion offers, inquire for some fit man to undertake the manu

facture of it in New York : taking care, however, as I have

done, not to disclose the idea until some kind of agreement

is made, such as to secure its sale at a moderate price."

  Though it is five months later in date, I may most

conveniently add here a passage from another letter re

ferring to this matter. ,
" After long provoking delays, and no end of bother, I have

got completed, and brought to London, the improved invalid-

bed. Various medical men, Bence Jones, Sharpey, Lockhart-
Clark, Marshall, Dunne, Bastian, Hart &c. have been to see

    and very much approve of it."

   My decision not to patent the invalid-bed proved to
it,
          it itbe ill-advised.hoped to facilitate the use ofit,but

                  a                                        I

                 I
                           I
                                I
                                         it it I
experience proved that hindered the use of it. Had

made  protected invention, might have induced

some one to undertake the manufacture and sale of     it

                                                          ;

but as was, no one thought worth while to invest

the necessary capital. As have not myself had the

spare energy requisite to bring into use, has re
                                                  it

mained unused. (For description and illustration see

                 174

JEt. 46-47]  SAD EVENTS

as was given by the invalid-bed, though in the opinion
of the nurse it prolonged life for some months, could of
course not do more than this. As spring advanced into
summer, more than one sudden summons to Derby in
dicated that the last days were approaching; and soon
after midsummer came the close of a life which had been
full of quiet virtues. Here is the announcement of it
to my American friend.

   " You will infer from the black border what has happened.
I am now alone in the world -- having no nearer relatives
than cousins ; with none of whom I have any sympathy.

   My mother after her long period of feebleness died on
Sunday-- having had but a week of positive illness. For
these two years her life has been so monotonous and burden
some a one that, sad as the ending of it necessarily seems, it
is to be regarded as a cessation of a painful consciousness."

   The failure of the faculties which had for years been
going on, was fortunately not of a distressing kind ; but
rather one which tended to mitigate, by obliviousness,
the evils to be borne. During this mental decay the
ideas and sentiments which had been dominant through
out life, became more dominant by contrast with those
which faded. It was pathetic to see how, when there

was no longer the power to discharge domestic duties
and religious observances, they constantly occupied the
mind. Early in the day came directions about house
hold matters ; and later in the day came repeated sug
gestions that it was time to prepare for going to chapel.
These alternate thoughts survived to the last ; and thus
ended a life of monotonous routine, very little relieved

by positive pleasures.

   I look back upon it regretfully: thinking how small

             175

      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                            [1866-67

with the great sacrifices which, as a mother, she made

for me in my early days. In human life as we at present

know  one of the saddest traits  the dull sense of
      it,
                                                              is
                                                                           it
                                                                                        is
filial obligations which exists at the time when                                            pos

sible to discharge them with something like fulness, in

contrast with the keen sense of them which arises when

      176

                PART IX.

   XL. Re-Casting First Principles.

   XLI. An Imprudence and its Consequences.
  XLII. A Tour in Italy.
 XLIII. Developing the Psychology.
 XLIV. Finishing the Psychology.
 XLV. An Extra Book.
XLVI. Some Minor Incidents.
XLVII. The Descriptive Sociology.

             r,r>


                       CHAPTER XL.

            RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES.

                         1867. Mt. 47.

   The house which, from the age of seven to the age of
forty-seven, had been my home -- practically at some
times and nominally at all other times -- was now my
home no longer. There remained nothing to tie me to

it beyond the associations which had clustered in and
around it during forty years. And these, some of them
pleasurable and some of them otherwise, were not such
as to outweigh the motives for permanent residence in
London.

  To the town, though it was my birthplace, I did
not feel any particular attachment. " Here I am again
at dull Derby " was the internal exclamation I often

made when arriving by train ; and the country imme
diately around it had no such beauties as to compensate

for its dulness. Only three families which I cared much

about now lived in or near it ; so that the social attrac
tions were not great. And then the climate did not
suit me : it is anything but invigorating. Thus other
feelings than filial were not strong enough to make life
at Derby desirable.

  Soon after my mother's death I therefore arranged to

give up the house. Reserving valued relics and such

                                                   179

     AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

don, and distributing the rest among my relations, I sur

rendered the key to the landlord. Thereafter Derby
knew me no more, save in the character of an occasional
visitor to friends.

  Already in Chapter XXXVI, which tells how, whenit,

writing the Classification of the Sciences there resulted the
discovery that First Principles had been organized

wrongly, I named the design, thereupon formed, of re
organizing it at the first convenient opportunity. A
letter shows that I had intended to do this as soon as
Vol. I of the Biology was completed. When that time
came, however, I found that there was still unsold a
large portion of the original edition of First Principles.

Had my means been considerable, I might have been
extravagant enough to sacrifice this ; but I could not

afford to do so, and had to wait for its gradual disap
pearance by sale. At the close of March 1867, when

the second volume of the Biology was finished, this re

mainder was, I presume, all or nearly all gone; and I

eagerly commenced the long-suspended project.

  I say eagerly, because during the intervening years

there had continually recurred the consciousness that I

had left outstanding a seriously imperfect piece of work

--a consciousness which I was anxious to get rid of.

Some vague dissatisfaction had, indeed, arisen when the

book was originally written ; and, when, in a chapter
entitled " The Conditions Essential to Evolution," there

was recognized the fact that Evolution, as I then con

ceived was not universal, but that there were certain

aggregates, such as crystals, which did not undergo it.

It never occurred to me at that time to put the ques

     180

/Et. 47l  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

aggregates which do not become more heterogeneous
and those aggregates which do become more hetero

geneous? Had I put this question I should have seen

that the formation of an aggregate necessarily precedes
any changes of structure which occur in the aggregate ;

and that therefore integration is the primary process and

differentiation the secondary process.

   The impatience I felt to make this rectification of

statement, which gave a new aspect to the doctrine and

freed it from a now-manifest error in the described order

of the phenomena, caused me to lose no time. As soon

as the closing number of the Biology was issued, I com
menced the agreeable task ; and such times as I could

command throughout the ensuing spring, summer, and
early autumn, were devoted to it.

   Of incidents during the first part of the interval thus

occupied, the following extracts from letters to Prof.

Youmans indicate those of chief interest. On March

ii, I wrote to him thus: --

" You were saying when over here, that you thought the

time was coming when we might recommence the issue of

the serial in the U.S. I doubt, however, whether it would

be worth while. Our subscription list here has just been

gone through for the purpose of giving a peremptory re

minder to those in arrear. I find there is not far short of

£200 due. Possibly the intimation that has been given, that

no further numbers will be sent out to those whose last two

subscriptions are unpaid, will have its effect. But I foresee
that if things go on as they have been doing, it will be

needful to give up the issue in parts by the time the Psy
chology is completed. The trouble and loss will no longer

          181

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

subscription in America had been abandoned, had dis

appeared from my mind. The abandonment had, of

course, been caused by the difficulty in obtaining pay

ments of subscriptions. A letter of April 8, contains
the passage :--

" This morning I am none the better for a large amount of
metaphysical discussion last night with Mill and Grote. It

had been specially arranged that Grote and myself were to
dine at Mill's together, and the result was a very interesting
evening, though one which was a serious tax upon me, as

you may suppose. . . .

   Tomorrow I shall commence the revision of First Prin
ciples. I had intended to make one or two replies to criti

cisms on the first part, but have been dissuaded by the

Leweses from doing so. There will only be one or two

small verbal alterations."

What I saw of Mr. and Mrs. Grote on this and other

such occasions, reminded me of the saying ascribed to

Rogers --" Ah ! I like the Grotes very much : she is so

gentlemanly and he is so ladylike." The saying was

unfair to Mr. Grote, however ; for his extreme suavity

did not prevent his manliness from being manifest. I
liked him much, but I did not care about her ; and
I suppose this fact was displayed in my manner, for I

have no power of disguising my feelings. She was a

masculine woman, alike in size, aspect, character, and

behaviour ; and I greatly dislike masculine women.

Moreover, she had been accustomed to a good deal of
incense, and I, little given to administer it in any case,

was in her case deterred by the tacit claim ; for when

there is assumption without adequate achievement to

justify  it,  always feel prompted to resent it. Hence,

           I

              182

/Et. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

Grote even cordial, the acquaintanceship did not grow
into freindship.

   Some passages written ten days later are worth quot
ing:--
" The inclosure contained in your letter was a considerable

surprise to me. I had anticipated something very much less.
What a wonderful steward you are. I never dreamt, a few

years ago, of any such results arising; and had it not been
for you it is clear that no such results would ever have

arisen. . . .

   Your remarks as to the use that is being made of Mill's

name, completely fulfil the prophecy I made to him. I told
him that I regretted to see the weight of his authority given

to a side that is already, to say the least, far too strong ; and

that the result would be that the Classicists would appro
priate all he said in their favour and ignore all he said

against them."

   The last of these two paragraphs refers to the in
augural address, then recently delivered by Mill as Lord
Rector of St. Andrews, in which he urged the claims of
Classics, with the apparent implication that they were in
danger of being over-ridden by Science. Considering

that Science was but just beginning to raise its head, and
to obtain a grudging recognition in the high places of
learning, it seemed to me that the note of alarm was

scarcely called for.

  I think I have already named the fact that the Rus

sians took the initiative in translating my books. From
the following paragraph written to my American friend
on May 3, it appears that M. Nicholas Thieblin, who
had undertaken the dangerous task of introducing them
to his countrymen, nearly got into serious trouble in

          183

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY    [1867

lator, giving me the satisfactory intelligence that the prose

cution has ended in smoke. It seems that the charge of the

minister amounted to a charge of high treason ; and this

was so grave that the procureur of the court of justice refused
to proceed with it ; and, one charge having failed, another

could not be made. So the poor fellow is out of danger; and

we shall have no occasion to make a noise about it in

America."

   A letter of June 7 contains a paragraph which it seems
desirable here to reproduce.

  " I have decided, within these few days, to use a specific
title for the whole series of volumes that I am issuing.

Originally, when drawing up the programme, I contemplated

doing so ; and was very nearly using the title Deductive Phi

losophy. But I was dissuaded, and finally fell back upon the
indefinite title-- ' A System of Philosophy.' There are de

cided evils, however, in the absence of a distinctive name;

and I have had these evils just now thrust before me afresh.

. . . Another title, therefore, is evidently extremely desir

able, and will, I think, in many respects yield positive as

well as negative advantages. I have decided upon the title
--Synthetic Philosophy, which, on the whole, seems the most
descriptive. I am intending to make the issue of this second

edition of First Principles the occasion for introducing it ;

and propose that each successive volume shall bear this gen
eral title on its back in addition to its special title."

  The following extract from a letter of June 26, I make

more especially for the sake of its second paragraph.
" Mr. Silsbee dropped in upon me quite unexpectedly about

ten days ago. He had come over it seems in pursuance of a

resolve suddenly taken, intending to spend two or three

weeks here before going to Paris. He is looking very well.

Mrs. Youmans' friend Dr.       (I forget his name) came

to lunch on the day that Silsbee called ; so that I had quite

                          184

&r. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

   We are about to give a public breakfast here to Garrison.
Bright is to be in the chair, and the address is to be moved
by the Duke of Argyll, and seconded by Earl Russell

(probably) and also by John Mill. I am one of the Com

mittee of arrangement."

  Had it not been for these records in letters, I should

have been able to say nothing about the course of my

life during this part of 1867.

   And here, indeed, after the above illustration, I may

fitly say a few words respecting the biographical mate

rials to be hereafter used.

   Unhappily there was no longer any home correspond

ence. There remained only the correspondence with
friends. Of the letters to Lott, large numbers are miss
ing; and hence the fact that in many preceding chapters
there are no quotations from them. In 1867 the series
of them recommences, and they here and there furnish

passages of interest. The letters to my American friend,

however, are those on which I have chiefly to depend

for filling in the outlines of my life after this date. Be

sides recalling incidents I had forgotten, their state
ments give precision to incidents I remember ; and they

furnish a tolerably full account of everything concerning
the writing and publication of my books.

  In 1878 I commenced keeping a brief diary. This
tells me where I was and what I was doing day by day ;

and enables me to give to the narrative during eight
subsequent years, definiteness if not fulness. Were it
compiled from recollections only, the account of these
eight years would be bald if not vague ; and the account

of the preceding seven years would be both vague and

         185

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                [1867

tions made will be from letters to Prof. Youmans, it
seems needless always to give his name. Where no
name is mentioned it may be inferred that the passage
quoted was written to him.

When summer was just passing into autumn I visited

my friend Professor Masson, who had taken a house for

the season in the Vale of Yarrow, and had asked me to

spend a few days with him. They were days of sympa
thetic talk, carried on during walks and drives --talk

which pleasantly and beneficially distracted my thoughts

from recent domestic troubles. One of our excursions

was to St. Mary's Loch at the head of the vale, and to

"Tibbie Shiels" tavern: a place associated with tradi

tions of notabilities of the preceding generation, who

gathered there for fishing. Our out-door converse was
enlivened by Masson 's stories -- now concerning the

Border raids associated with the locality, of which I re

member nothing save the name of some sanguinary
ruffian, " Dickie of Dryhope " ; and now concerning Dr.

Chalmers, whom Masson had known personally and

greatly admired. A certain emotional glow which he

puts into his narratives, always gives them an interest

beyond    that which they otherwise have.              I  de
   After  " Yarrow visited " and never " re-visited,"

parted for the West, or rather, for the North-west. To
fill an unoccupied gap in my holiday, I went as far North

as Glenelg; and after a week there spent partly in fish

ing, partly in rambling, partly in examining the Pictish

towers in Glen Beg, I made my way to Ardtornish to

have another of those interludes in my life which have

formed its chief enjoyment. Here I remained from

          186

JEt. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

   Beneficial as a visit to Ardtornish was always made
by its out-door and in-door pleasures, a certain draw
back resulted from its relaxing climate. To neutralize

this I sometimes on my way South stopped for a time

at a bracing place. On one occasion, though in what

year I cannot remember, I thus utilized Llandudno ; and
this year I betook myself to Scarborough. Of incidents
during my week's stay I remember but one -- a ramble

along the coast to a bay some two miles or so to the
South, which brought under my notice an extremely ex
ceptional fact. In this bay there crops out on the beach

a stratum of clay of medium plasticity ; coherent enough
for large lumps of it to hold together when tumbled

about by the waves, and yet soft enough to be rounded
by them. The bay also contains a deposit of shingle,
over which the soft clay boulders had in some places
been rolled. And here came the strange result. In each
rounded mass of clay the pebbles had imbedded them

selves, so that its surface was closely studded with them
all over. Part of the beach was formed of sand ; and it

seemed quite possible that one of these clay boulders

with its superficial layer of pebbles might be deposited

by the waves on some quiet part of the sandy tract, there

gradually covered over, and finally left as part of a new
stratum. What an incomprehensible phenomenon would
it in such case be for the geologist of the future ! How
incredible it would seem that such a formation should

be other than artificial !
   This reference to an anomalous process observed on

the sea-shore, recalls another scarcely less anomalous,

which I may fitly joint with it. Were anyone to assert

that Nature gives mankind lessons in describing circles,

          187

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

the purpose, all but a very few would say he was talk
ing nonsense. Yet he would be stating a literal fact.

Probably some may conclude that I refer to those arcs

of circles occasionally scratched by loose branches of
trees trained against walls, and which have been blown
backwards and forwards by the wind ; and he may say

rightly that the curves thus formed --only parts of cir
cles, and, indeed, only approximately circular --are
formed under artificial conditionsV But I have in mind

a case on which no such criticisms can be passed. Where

sand-hills are formed along a sea-shore, there grows in
them, and serves to hold them together, a species of
large grass, having blades that are very long, dry, and
stiff. Roots of this occur, not in the sand-hills only,
but here and there in the flat interspaces. Hard and

wiry though its blades are, they sometimes get broken
-- perhaps by passing animals. Occasionally may be
seen one of which the broken end, longer than the up
right part to which it is still attached by some fibres,
leans in an inclined position with its point touching the
sand. This broken part when blown about by the wind
describes part of a circle on the surface of the sand.
When the wind changes it describes another part of the
circle ; and when the fibres by which it is held are few
and lax, other changes of wind make it fill in the re
maining arc. Eventually this natural pair of compasses
may be seen standing in the middle of the circle which

it has described.

   These instances show how difficult it is to find in all
cases a test by which to distinguish the improbable from

188

/Et. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

and on my way stopped two days at Stourbridge. Why
Stourbridge? will probably be asked by any reader who

knows how uninviting are the place and its surround

ings.

   My purpose was to make a genealogical inquiry. As

was said at the outset, my maternal grandmother was
named Brettell (originally Breteuil); and there were

two questions respecting her mother which I wished, if
possible, to solve. When, as a boy of 14, I was in Lon
don with my parents, I accompanied them to dine with

two old gentlemen named Shakespeare, who were

cousins of my maternal grandmother. Miss Brettell, a

cousin of my mother, had once told me that there was

no blood relationship ; by which, at the time, I under

stood her of course to mean no blood relationship of

the kind which one might have a motive to establish,

were it possible. But I now think she meant that the

cousinship of these Shakespeares had arisen not from
the marriage of a Mr. Brettell to a Miss Shakespeare,

but from a marriage of a Mr. Shakespeare to a Miss

Brettell. This was the point which I wanted to deter

mine ; and hence my expedition to Wordsley near Stour

bridge, where this great-grandfather Brettell had lived.

I could not make out anything, however. The name

Shakespeare was not infrequent in the register, and, if

I remember rightly, occurred on sundry grave-stones.
But I could not discover the marriage I sought for.

    Another question of this class interested me. As was

indicated in a preliminary chapter, the Brettells, resi

dent during a long past in the neighbourhood of Stour

bridge, had intermarried with certain de Henezels (or
Henzies, as they were eventually called in England) --

          189

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

time of the religious persecutions : having in earlier

times migrated into Lorraine from Bohemia : possibly

being Hussites. I gathered in the neighbourhood that

there had been two branches of the Brettell family, a

richer and a poorer ; and I was curious to learn with

which of these branches it was that the Henzies had

mingled: whether with ours, which I believe was the
poorer, or, as I think more probable, with the richer. I
failed to learn, however. I knew only that my great-

grandmother's Christian name was Sarah ; that her mar

riage with Mr. Brettell must have been about the middle

of the last century ; and that among the children there
were a John, a Jeremiah, and a Jane. Whether it was
that these data were insufficient, or whether it was that

my search (limited to the registers of Wordsley and Old

Swinford) was not wide enough, I cannot say.

   The failure was of little moment, however. Were it

proved that through this line of ancestry there has de

scended to me a trace of foreign blood distinguished by

such pronounced nonconformity, the fact would have

negative significance rather than positive significance.

Save certain physical traits, I inherit, so far as I can per

ceive, scarcely anything from maternal ancestry. Every

trait, alike intellectual and moral, which is at all dis

tinctive, is clearly traceable to my father.

   After the two days which I spent in this bootless in
vestigation, I continued my journey to Standish ; and,

at the end of one of my pleasant sojourns with my

friends there, returned to London.

   The printing of the re-cast edition of First Principles
had been going on pari passu with the revision, and was

190

/ET. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

by the printers having been due to the circumstance that

the greater part of the original stereotype plates had,

with but trifling alterations, been made to serve afresh.

   I name this fact as introductory to some remarks con
cerning the method of publication I had adopted and

have since continued. The system of stereotyping has
been objected to by some of my friends as entailing an
obstacle to the making of corrections ; and it doubtless
does this to a serious degree if the corrections are nu

merous and diffused throughout the work. But it entails

no considerable obstacle when the changes are limited
to particular parts, or are in chief measure changes of
arrangement. In this second edition of First Principles,

probably for not more than one-third of the work had
new plates been required ; while the plates of the re

maining two-thirds had needed only to be re-paged and

to have the sections re-numbered.

   Stereotyping of course involves extra loss if a book

is unsuccessful ; and its profitableness implies something

more than temporary success. If an edition consists of
but 500 copies or of 750 copies, the cost of setting up

the type is the chief cost ; and even when the number

comprised in the edition is 1000, payment for setting up

the type amounts to one-half the sum laid out. If the

type has been distributed and a second edition is called

for, composition has to be paid for a second time, with
the effect of greatly diminishing the net profit. But if

stereotype plates have been made, (or rather stereo-
moulds, for it is not requisite that the plates should be

cast until they are actually wanted) there needs no sec
ond composition ; and there has to be borne only the

outlay for the stereotype plates. If there are many edU

          191

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

pears ; and leaves nothing to be counted as cost beyond

the paper and press-work.

  When, some ten years since, I gave evidence before

the Copyright Commission, I made a calculation re
specting the returns brought by my books. I found

that, after making deductions for the usual trade-allow

ances, the publishers' commission, and the expenses of

paper and printing, there remained to me between 30

and 40 per cent, of the advertised price. I say between

30 and 40 per cent, because, so long as the cost of com
position and stereotyping entered into the estimate, the
per-centage of profit was kept down to something like
the lower of these two rates ; but, when, after many edi
tions, this element of the cost might be considered as

having practically disappeared, the rate of profit ap
proached the higher of the two. That is to say, an
edition of 1000 copies of a book advertised at 20 shil

lings, brought to me nearly £400: an amount which the
cost of advertising might reduce to something like £380.
No such proportion as this is, I believe, ordinarily ob
tained by an author who either sells the copyright of

an edition or who publishes on the system of half-profits
-- a system which, on the ordinary publisher's method of

estimating profits, is apt to leave the author with a very

small sum ; if it does not, indeed, vex him by a perpet
ually retreating mirage of profits --a promise that there

will be profits on the next edition.
   Of course publication by commission (i.e. paying the

publisher 10 per cent, on the gross returns for doing the
business) accompanied, as in my own case, by direct
dealings with the printer, paper-maker, and binder, en

tails a certain amount of trouble. A friend of mine, who

192

/Et. 47]   RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

dertaking  it,  and thinks he                       not overpaid for going
                                   is
                                             is

                                                is
through it. That he not overpaid when he takes the

risk as well as the trouble, true. The competition of

trades keeps the trade of publishing down to the average

level of profitableness and there are bankrupt publish
                                   ;

ers as well as bankrupt traders of other kinds. But
where the publisher does not run any risk -- where the

author's position such that his book sure to more
                is                                     is
                                                                  is
                                ;
than pay his expenses then the publisher greatly

overpaid for the work he does on either the half-profit

system or the system of copyright purchase, he gives
                                                       if

only what commonly given. Did he take the course
           is

I  do, my friend would find that the few hours spent in

the needful letter-writing and interviews were paid for

by returns at score times the rate that any hours other
               a

                                ;
wise spent were paid for: consideration which may
                                      a

fitly be entertained since, high as his aims may be, the

author must live before he can work.

   Of course the penniless author, or one who, though

he gains much, extravagant and lives from hand to
                is

mouth, cannot avail himself of this more remunerative

mode of publishing. He cannot wait for the ultimate

advantages. He has to accept such terms as the capital

ist offers and they are usually hard terms.
          ;

                                               I
   Returning from these digressive remarks suggested
by the publication of this re-cast edition of First PrinI
ciples, which took place in November, may here say

something concerning the work itself; or rather --con

cerning the general doctrine now finally embodied
in it.

   Early in the course of the foregoing narrative, when
briefly describing various essays, indicated the ways in

                    50 193

                AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY     [1867

which they severally displayed approaches to the con

ception eventually reached; and before giving, in its

original crude form, the programme of the system in

which it was proposed to elaborate this conception, I

described the general course of thought by which, as

seen in these steps, the conception had been arrived at.

Here, while noting the further developments which took

place subsequently, it will be well to set down succinctly

all the successive steps with their respective dates. They
run as follows :--

   1850. Recognized the truth that low types of organ
isms and low types of societies, are alike in the trait

that each consists of many like parts severally performing

like functions ; while high types of organisms and high

types of societies, are alike in the trait that each consists

of many unlike parts severally performing unlike func

tions (Social Statics pp. 451-3): the tacit implication
being that in these cases progress is from the uniform to

the multiform.

   185 1. Made  acquaintance with    the expression of
Milne-Edwards,  " the physiological  division of labour,"

as applied to organic life -- an expression which, suggest

ing the thought that in animals as in societies the division

of labour increases as organization advances, brought
into clearer light the meaning of the " increasing sub

division of functions " on which I had commented in

drawing the above parallel, and the meaning of the

change from uniformity of structure to multiformity of

structure.

   185 1-2. A disclosure to me, and reception by me, of
von Baer's formula ;-- every organism in the course of

its development changes from homogeneity of structure

                194

/Et. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

   1852. In treating of the development of style there
were expressed simultaneously, as being equivalents,
the ideas that progress is from a state in which there are

many like parts simply aggregated, to a state in which
there are many unlike parts mutually dependent, and

that it is from homogeneity to heterogeneity.
    1853. Alleged that in the course of social develop

ment progress is from unity of control to diversity of
control -- ceremonial, ecclesiastical, and political; and
further, that within the ceremonial division itself, pro
gress is similarly from simplicity to complexity.

    1854. (Spring.) After enunciating the principle that
Education must conform itself to the unfolding mind, it

was asserted that mental development is from the sim
ple to the complex and from the indefinite to the definite
(a first recognition of the truth that increasing definite-
ness is a trait of evolution) ; and concerning scientific
development, which is determined by mental develop

ment, it was asserted that Science displays an increasing

integration, giving it greater coherence, at the same
time that by increasing divergence and re-divergence it
acquires higher complexity. Though in these cases

there was recognized the fact that development is from

uniformity to multiformity, or from homogeneity to
heterogeneity, these phrases were not used.

    1854. (Autumn.) Systematically dealt with as having
arisen by evolution, Mind at large, animal and human,
was now described as advancing from the homogeneous
to the heterogeneous, and from the indefinite to the

definite, and as displaying an accompanying integration
of its components.

    1854-5. These successive extensions in various direc

          195

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                      [1867

to the heterogeneous, now suddenly led to the percep

tion that this is a universal trait of progress, inorganic,

organic, and super-organic ; and immediately, in answer

to the inquiry how does this happen, there followed the

conclusion that the multiplication of effects is every

where the cause.

[Eighteen months of ill health here intervened.]

lon1g8-d57e.layDeidrectelyssayaf--ter"  setting forth   this theory in the
                                        Progress : its  Law and Cause "

came the perception that there is a further cause of this

universal transformation, and, indeed, an antecedent

cause-- the instability of the homogeneous. At the

same time it was pointed out that individual organisms

and social organisms are alike in displaying the process

of integration.

   1857-8. During the last days of the one year or the
first days of the other, came the thought that, since the

continuous metamorphosis due to these causes is dis

played by all orders of existences, it ought to be the

guiding conception running through and connecting all

the concrete sciences, which severally treat of the dif

ferent orders of existences ; and there was forthwith

sketched out a series of volumes in which a presentation

of them as thus dealt with should constitute a system

of philosophy.

   1858 (or else the latter part of 1857). There was now
added the perception that increasing heterogeneity can

not go on without limit, but must end with the arrival

at a state of equilibrium ; and then, or soon after, came

the further perception that since the state of equilibrium

eventually reached cannot last for ever, there must

afterwards come a process of dissolution ; and that thus

                                        196

JEt. 47]  RE-CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

    1858-9. Partly during the preceding intervals, extend
ing back as far as 1854, and partly during the interval
here dated, arose the recognitions of certain simpler
facts of existence and action which must in all cases de
termine the transformations constituting Evolution and

Dissolution --the indestructibility of matter, the con

tinuity of motion, the rhythm of motion, and the law of
the direction of motion. It became clear that all the
changes to be interpreted are consequences of the cease
less re-distribution of matter and motion everywhere
going on ; and must conform to those ultimate physical
principles which regulate this re-distribution. Finally,
it was concluded that the assigned proximate causes of
Evolution, as well as these physical principles just
named, are all to be affiliated upon the persistence of
force ; and that the interpretation is complete only
when they are all deduced from the persistence of
force

  . 1860-62. The conceptions which had thus been

reached, in successive stages, and finally consolidated as
just described, were now elaborated in their various ap

plications, as set forth in First Principles.

    1864. Incidentally, while dealing with the Classifica
tion of the Sciences, and asking for the most general
form under which all orders of concrete changes may be
expressed, there was suddenly disclosed the truth that
integration is a primary process and differentiation a
secondary process ; and that thus, while the formation
of a coherent aggregate is the universal trait of Evolu
tion, the increase of heterogeneity, necessarily subse
quent, is but an almost universal trait; --the one being

          197

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

of the mode in which the matter composing an evolv
ing aggregate is re-distributed, should be joined a state
ment of the mode in which its motion is re-distributed ;
and the formula was made to include the fact that along
with the transformation of the matter from a state of

indefinite, incoherent homogeneity to a state of definite,

coherent heterogeneity, there goes a parallel transforma
tion of the retained motion.

    Thus from the time when there arose the initial

thought that organisms and societies are alike in the
trait that low types consist of like parts performing like
functions, while high types consist of unlike parts per
forming unlike functions, to the time when there was

reached this fully-developed conception of Evolution at
large, inorganic, organic, and super-organic, there
elapsed a period of 17 years. Of the successive changes
which went on during this period, the earlier were in
corporations of additional orders of phenomena, and
thus exhibited progressive integration-- the primary
process of Evolution. Simultaneously, sundry of them
displayed advance in heterogeneity ; since they brought
into a coherent whole more and more heterogeneous
masses of facts -- the secondary process of Evolution.
Others, again, by raising the conception into more
precise agreement with the reality, gave increased defi-
niteness to it-- a further trait of Evolution. And

thus, as we saw when it had reached a less advanced

stage, the changes passed through by the conception
of Evolution themselves conformed to the law of Evo
lution.

  I was about to add that the final phase of Evolution

--equilibration -- was now illustrated by the arrival at an

198

<Et. 47]  RE CASTING FIRST PRINCIPLES

a balance such that the order of the ideas was no longer

to be disturbed by the order of the facts. But this is

more than I dare to say ; seeing that I had before more

than once thought that the two were in complete cor

          199

                       CHAPTER XLI.

      AN IMPRUDENCE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

                         1867. Mr. 47.

  Up to this time I had not felt the need for any assist

ance beyond that yielded by an ordinary amanuensis.
Such materials as were stored up in memory, joined
with such further materials as were accessible without
much labour, served me while writing First Principles.

   Though for writing The Principles of Biology there

was required a far larger amount of information than I
possessed, the result proved that I did not miscalculate

in believing that I should be able to furnish myself with
such detailed facts as were requisite for the setting forth
of general conceptions. Nor did The Principles of Psy
chology, partly executed and now to be completed, cause
me to seek external aid. The data for the subjective
part, which was dealt with after a manner unlike that
commonly adopted, were lying ready internally; and the
views taken of the objective part were so little akin to
those of preceding psychologists, that no extensive study
of their writings was necessary. But I had long been
conscious that when I came to treat of Sociology, the
case would be widely different. There would be required
an immense accumulation of facts so classified and ar

ranged as to facilitate generalization. I saw, too, that it

                                                   200

/Et. 47] AN IMPRUDENCE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

of reading demanded, and that it would be needful for
me to read by proxy, and have the collected materials
prepared for use. Not, indeed, that this was my first

idea. I began by thinking that I must have a secretary
who would read to me. I soon became aware, however,
that the requirements could not be thus met ; and that I

must get some one to devote himself, under my super
intendence, to the gathering and grouping of data.

   There was no time to be lost. The elaboration and

completion of the Psychology I expected would occupy me

some two or three years ; and unless, by the end of that

time due preparation had been made, I foresaw that I

should suddenly have before me the task of building

without bricks --or, at any rate, building without any

adequate supply of bricks. While staying with Professor

Masson in the Vale of Yarrow, I named to him my need,

and begged him to let me know if he heard of any one
likely to serve my purpose. My friend's aid soon proved
to be efficient. Within a month, while still at Ardtornish,

I received from him a letter recommending a young

Scotchman, Mr. David Duncan, well known to him and
to Professor Bain, under whom he had studied. Qualms of
conscience had obliged him to relinquish a clerical career,
for which he had been intended; and he was seeking
something to do. He seemed too good for the place, and

I said as much in the correspondence which ensued ; but

notwithstanding my somewhat dissuasive representations,
he decided to accept, and joined me in Town not long

after I returned.

   Of course preliminary discipline was needed by any one
who undertook the work I wanted done ; for my concep

                                                    201

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  (1867

be likely to frame for himself. Indications of the climate,
contour, soil, and minerals, of the region inhabited by

each society delineated, seemed to me needful. Some ac
counts of the Flora and Fauna, in so far as they affected
human life, had to be given. And the characters of the

surrounding tribes or nations were factors which could

not be overlooked. The characters of the people, indi
vidually considered, had also to be described -- their physi
cal, moral, and intellectual traits. Then, besides the po
litical, ecclesiastical, industrial, and other institutions of
the society --besides the knowledge, beliefs, and senti

ments, the language, habits, customs, and tastes of its
members--there had to be noticed their clothing, food,
arts of life &c. Hence it was necessary that Mr. Duncan

and myself should go through some books of travel to

gether, so that he might learn to recognize everything

relevant to Sociology.

   It resulted that beyond my morning's work, continued,
when I was well, from 10 till 1, during which interval
Mr. Duncan acted as amanuensis, some work of so light
a kind that it hardly seemed worthy the name, now filled
an hour or two at the end of the day. Though reading
had the same effect on me as dictating, and though half
an hour over a book in the evening made my ordinarily

bad night decidedly worse, yet I hoped that I might listen

when read to without suffering from it. It was a foolish
hope. Many experiences might have shown me that the

effect would be mischievous.

   My nervous affection had been from the beginning of
such a nature that disturbance of the cerebral circulation

was caused by whatever necessitated persistent mental
action, no matter of what kind. Often when at a loss

202

/Et. 47J AN IMPRUDENCE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

not read a novel?" But the effect of reading a novel is
just the same as that of reading a grave book. When at
my worst, half a column of a newspaper as surely brings
on head-symptoms as do two or three pages of meta
physics. Whatever involves continued attention produces
the effect. Dr. Ransom, who had suffered from a similar
affection, told me that he brought on a relapse by too
persistently watching, through the microscope, the early
changes in the fertilised ova of fishes ; and he further told
me that disorders akin to his own and to mine, were
common in Nottingham among the lace-menders -- a class
of women who, all day long, have the attention strained
in looking for, and rectifying, small flaws which have
been left by the lace-making machines. Hence I might
have known that continuous attention to a reader would
have nearly the same result as continuous reading.
This presently proved to be the case. My restless
nights were very soon made more restless. Without

thinking what I was doing I nevertheless persevered ; and
by and bye found that I had brought about one of my

serious relapses.

  I have nothing to remind me of the date, but I imagine

that this disaster occurred early in December.

  In a previous chapter I named the fact that I had

recourse to morphia when my nights became much worse

than usual ; and doubtless on this occasion I sought thus

to bring on again the periodicity of sleep, which, once
broken through for some time, had to be re-established by
artificial means.

   And here it occurs to me to describe, for the benefit
of those who have not experienced them, some of the

                                                   203

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867

coherence to the ideas evolved. Unlike the actions and

events of an ordinary dream, which are linked on by

accidental suggestions in such wise that they form a

rambling series, the actions and events of a morphia-

dream are almost like those of the waking state, in their
rationality and orderly connexion. For a long time the

thoughts which arise bear a logical relation to some pri

mary thought, and the actions performed continue to be
in pursuance of some original intention. Occasionally

this trait was so stiking that I next morning recorded the

dream illustrating it. Here is an account of one.
" Another peculiarity that has occasionally struck me is the

continual occurrence of events or thoughts which, though
coherent, are unexpected and do not seem accounted for by
any simple process of association. Last night, for example,

I happened just to awake at a moment when I was able to

lay hold of a portion of a dream presenting these peculi

arities. I imagined that I was reading the review of some

book which the reviewer brought to a close by condemning
the extremely strong language used by the writer, and then

proceeded to give an example of it. The example com
menced thus :--

   ' Has this cur the slightest tender-heartedness -- is he even

hearted at all?'

   Immediately on reading this I was startled by the oddity
of the word ' hearted ' thinking to myself-- What made the
man use such a word ? I supposed he meant to write, ' Has
he any heart ? ' This was a parenthetical thought, and I

remember that the paragraph went on to a considerable

length ; and then that the reviewer wound up by two or three
lines, in which he made a quite unexpected parallel, of

which, though unexpected, I soon saw the meaning.
   In these cases it seems as though there were going on,

quite apart from the consciousness which seemed to consti

204

/Et. 47] AN IMPRUDENCE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

as though one part of myself was an independent originator

over whose sayings and doings I had no control, and which
were nevertheless in great measure consistent ; while the
other part of myself was a passive spectator or listener, quite

unprepared for many of the things that the first part said,

and which were nevertheless, though unexpected, not

illogical."

· When thinking them over I have put different inter
pretations on these phenomena. At first I ascribed them

to a double consciousness. But as in the word tender
heartedness there occurs the fragment " hearted ;" and
as in such instances as " wrongheadedness " the word
" headed," included as a component of the compound

word, is also used by itself; it seemed possible that by

association in a consciousness active enough to be influ

a
      it,

                  I
                                                              ;
                                                  is

                                                                                            a
enced by  but not active enough to perceive in time

t"hhaet atrhteedw"ormdigshutggbeesteevdolbvyedanalaongdy       not used,                                         the word
                                                          that then its                                          unfamil-

iarity might suddenly arouse attention to its strangeness.

Afterwards, however, reverted to the hypothesis of

double consciousness arising from independent action of
the two hemispheres of the brain -- independent action

due to lack of that complete co-ordination which exists

during the waking state.

In ordinary dreams, thoughts which seem valuable or

witty, turn out on awaking to be nonsensical or inane;

but in morphia-dreams there sometimes arise thoughts

which would not discredit the waking state. have made
a

                                                                            '
                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                              :

                                                                       it

                                                     is a I
memorandum of one which occurred in an imaginary

circle of friends, one of whom, referring to recently-
published book, said-- " Oh, have you seen the Rev. Mr.

So-and-so's story called The Lily                                                                                the most

                          205

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                               [1867

dream, I remarked -- "Ah, I see : a sermon that ' cometh
up as a flower '." This happened shortly after the pub

lication of Miss Broughton's first novel; and evidently
the title of it partially determined the course which my
dream took.

   It is an interesting physiological inquiry, what pe
culiar state of the circulation it is which combines the
implied activity of brain with closure of the senses to

external impressions.

   Various efforts were now made to restore my consti

tutional equilibrium. In the latter part of December I

went to Malvern for some 10 days--not to undergo

hydropathic treatment, though I went to a hydropathic

establishment. No great advantage resulted. Then,

dated London, 2nd January, 1868, a letter to Youmans
says :--

" To-morrow I am going off into Glostershire, where, if the

frost which has now set in, lasts, I hope to get some skating;
and I count upon this for doing a great deal towards setting

me right again."

Shortly after I reverted to another form of exercise,

previously found beneficial. In reply to an invitation
           written on January 25 :--
from Lott  I returned from Standish I  was  considerably  bet
   " When

ter, and recommenced work ; and, though I have since been

worse again, still I do not think that Derby life, even though

joined with the pleasant circle of No. 7, would have been

quite the thing for me.

   I have resorted to my old remedy of playing rackets, and

have to-day derived considerable benefit. By continuing this,

and doing a little work, I hope to restore again my easily

           206

JEt. 47] AN IMPRUDENCE AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

state, brought on in December and continued through

January, persisted till the end of February ; and it then

seemed needful to make a thorough change in my life.
                                  29 Feb., says :--
A   letter to Youmans, dated                           two  months,
   After losing a great deal of  time during the last
"

hoping to get into working order by using half-measures, I

have been at length compelled to take a more decisive course.

I start to-morrow morning for Italy, where I propose to spend

some two months -- expecting that by the end of April, by the

combined effects of desisting from all excitements, intellec

tual and social, and getting the exhilaration due to so much

novelty, I shall regain my ordinary state."

   An incident of moment to me, affecting greatly my
daily life throughout future years, occurred just before I

started. I was elected into the Athenaeum Club by the

Committee. There are two modes of election : the one by

ballot, and the other under what is known to the mem
bers as Rule 2 -- a rule allowing the Committee to select

from the list of candidates nine annually who have spe

cial claims: the purpose being to maintain the original

character of the Club, which, at the outset, brought

together the chief representatives of Science, Literature,

   207

                     CHAPTER XLII.

                         A TOUR IN ITALY.

                         1868. Mt. 47.

   Beyond the usual interests which attracted me to Italy
as a country in which to pass an interval of relaxation,

there was an unusual interest : Vesuvius was in eruption.

This fact determined not only my choice of Italy as a
recruiting ground, but also the route I chose. Already
the emission of lava and vomiting of molten fragments

had been going on for a month or more; and I feared
the eruption might cease before I reached the place if I
delayed on the journey. I therefore went to Marseilles

and thence took steamer for Naples.
   This was during the first days of March ; and early in

the morning of the 6th, I think it was, the passengers

were, in response to a request made over night, called on
deck to see the dull red glow of the long lava-stream,
then visible at a distance of some 20 miles, amid the
scarcely decreased darkness. The sight was impressive;
and it was strange to remember it afterwards on observ
ing that by day the lava-stream appeared to emit no light
at all.

   My first day at Naples, where we arrived before the
bustle of the streets had commenced, was passed in an
uninteresting way -- lying on the bed in a state of ex

                                                   208

Mt. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

the wear and tear of the journey, and partly by the bad

feeding on board the vessel, belonging to the Mcssagerics

Imperialcs, which brought us, a vessel which, not subject

as others of its class are to competition with the Penin

sula and Oriental line, had a very bad cuisine: making

me, among other things, better acquainted with the large

Mediterranean fish called tunny than I wished to be.
Only in the evening did I feel sufficiently recruited to
walk out, and then I caught a cold which remained with

me during the whole of my stay in Italy.
   How careless people are in their statements about

climate. Thinking that I was going where mildness
reigned, I had hesitated about taking my Inverness cape.
It was fortunate that I did take it. During the five weeks
I passed in Italy I needed it daily, sometimes with a

spring overcoat underneath ; and at Florence, during the

first week in April, I saw many others similarly clad.
But it was an exceptional winter, I was told. Yes, it

seems always to be an exceptional winter. Friends with

whom I afterwards compared notes had the same
weather, and heard the same excuse. I may add that my

experiences elsewhere in later years have been no less

disappointing: so much so, indeed, that I have come to

doubt whether a model climate exists anywhere.

  Twice during my week in Naples I was led to endanger
my life by that trait with which, as I have said at the

outset, my father reproached me when a boy-- the tend
ency to become for the moment possessed by a single
idea, or, as he phrased to think of only one thing at

time.
   The first of these occasions was on the day after my

arrival. The Hotel des Etrangers, at which was stay

                  57 209
         it,

                                  I
                                                                     a

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1868

ing, is at one angle of a triangular space to which the
shore of the bay forms a rude hypothenuse. In the after

noon I was walking across this place to the hotel, un

aware that anyone was near me, when my train of

thought was broken by a sudden relief from a slight drag

on my shoulder, caused by an opera-glass in my coat-

pocket. I turned round and a young fellow, some two
or three and twenty I should think, rushed away and
dropped the opera-glass : probably thinking that I should

pick it up and be content with having regained it. He

was mistaken, however. I gave chase. Either he must
have been a bad runner, or I must have still retained a

good deal of that fleetness which distinguished me as a

boy. Perceiving that his course would presently bring

him to the Chiaja, where there were many persons about,
he apparently lost his head, and I came up and seized

him by the collar. He went on his knees, kissed my
hand, and begged to be let off; and some working-class

women who quickly came up interceded for him. But I
disregarded what I suppose were entreaties ; and when,

the moment after, two young Leghornese gentlemen, who

had witnessed the pursuit, appeared on the scene, and

volunteered to accompany me to give evidence, we moved

away into the city : my captive submitting unresistingly.

Meeting after a time one of the police, I delivered him

over, and, the crowd which accompanied us having dis

persed, we went with the policeman and his charge to the
station. There the man was recognized as an audacious
thief who had been known to pick the pockets of the
police! Speaking, as I did, no Italian, and but bad
French, the taking down of my statement was a long
business. When at length the deposition had been cor

210

/Et. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

amused at being asked what punishment I should like in
flicted. The reply of course was that I was concerned

only to deliver over the culprit into their hands : leaving
them to decide on the punishment. And thus the matter

ended.                           frequently people were

   Next day, when I heard how    conscious of the risk I
stabbed on the Chiaja, I became

had been running. Most likely, had the young fellow

had a knife about him, I should have suffered, perhaps

fatally, for my imprudence. Had I not been so exclu

sively possessed by the thought of bringing him to jus

tice, I should have been content with regaining my opera-

glass.

   The other incident to which I have referred as illus

trating the trait named, or rather, perhaps, in this case

the trait of rashness, which I begin to think is somewhat

characteristic of me, occurred a few days later, when

exploring the area of the eruption on Vesuvius.

  For several days during which I was recruiting, I had

been content to witness the doings of the mountain as

visible from Naples ; observing bursts of lava-spray, dark

by day and bright by night, and collecting from my
window-sill some of the smaller particles of this spray,
about the size of coarse gunpowder.* During these days,

  * I use the phrase lava-spray advisedly. It is clear that in the lower

part of the vast volume of molten matter filling the crater of a volcano,
there is contained a large amount of matter which, at ordinary tempera
tures and pressures, would be gaseous : probably carbonic acid and
water, which, notwithstanding the high temperature, are, by the im
mense superincumbent weight, kept either in the liquid state or at the
"critical point." As the lower portions of the column are thrust up
wards, and the pressure these matters are subject to diminishes, they
assume the gaseous state : forming small bubbles distributed through

          211

                                                AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY     [1868

conversation round the table-d'hote had enlightened me

respecting the impositions practised on all who ascended.

I learnt that at the place where the road up to the

Observatory diverges from the high road running round

the base of the mountain -- Resina I think it was --there

stood guides and ponies, and that it was imperative to

take one of each and pay a prescribed high price. I am

intolerant of coercion in such matters, and am always

prompted to defeat its aims, if possible. A clergyman,

some ten years my senior, who had been a fellow-passen

ger from Marseilles, had the like feeling; and we con

sulted how to give effect to it. On examining the map,

we found that by diverging to the left from the high road

some mile or two short of Resina, we might cut into the

road which leads up to the Observatory. Taking a vehicle

as far as the bye-way selected, we pursued this for some

distance until, to our dismay, it trended off towards the

East. But a small gift to some people in a vineyard, pur

chased the permission to cross                  I                as well as directions
                                                           ;
how to proceed, and we presently found ourselves where      it,

we intended. Free from the noises of the usual caval

cades, we pursued our ascent now pausing to contem

plate the Bay of Naples below us, and now gathering

flowers not seen before. Our arrival at the place where

branch lava-stream had, suppose some weeks before,
a

                                             :
obstructed the path, caused, among the guides and others

pand and aggregate by and bye making large ones, which increase inaa
ascending power as in size. At length, on approaching the top of the
molten column, there have resulted vast ones of many feet in diameter --
chambers filled with gases which, though no longer of such high tension,
are still of tension like that of the gunpowder-gases in cannon. And

then at some point, perhaps 20 or 30 feet below the top of the molten
column, each gigantic bubble as bursts propels the superincumbent
                                                it

                                                212

&t. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

assembled there, much astonishment. How we came un

attended was a mystery to them.

   Our purpose was, of course, to reach the place at which
the lava-stream emerged from the base of the cone, about
half a mile off : the intervening space being covered with
cooling portions of the stream, which had now taken this

course and now that. The guides around proffered their

services ; but we declined them, and set out over the black

rugged tract to be traversed. After some fifty or hun

dred yards, finding proof that the hardened lava was

hotter than he anticipated, my companion turned back.

I saw no danger, however, and as the air, though dis
agreeably warm, was not sulphurous, I went on alone;

thinking it would be time to pause when some risk was

before me. Half walking, half climbing, I slowly ad

vanced ; now passing easily along a tolerably solid and

smooth surface, now with difficulty surmounting gnarled

masses of lava contorted while moving and semi-solid,

now scrambling over heaps of scoria, and now having to
cross certain long strange-looking trenches, the sides of
which consisted of loose fragments of vesicular lava torn
into pieces, looking like a mineral " pulled-beard." Mean
while Vesuvius was thundering above me, sending high
into the air at each explosion a cloud of fragments of all
sizes; some of them falling back into the crater, while
most fell on the sides of the cone--too far from me, how

ever, to be a source of danger. Presently, as I dimin

ished my distance from the source of the lava-stream,
and the blurring effect of the hot and wavy air did not
so much obscure distant objects, I discerned a solitary

figure near the place towards which I was moving; and
after a time he discerned me. As I approached he left

         213

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1868

freshments, and over the last thirty or forty yards showed
me the way. While doing this he drew me aside and

pointed out a place where, through a hole broken in the

black smooth surface of a seemingly cold lava-stream, I

looked down into a red-hot tunnel of some six or eight
feet in diameter. Several times in the course of my
scrambling walk the sound of my footsteps had suggested
hollowness below ; and now the cause was manifest. I
had passed over some of these tunnels. Further, it was

manifest that the trenches I had crossed had resulted

from the subsidence of the scoria overlying some of
them. Thirty or forty paces more now brought me to
the object of my dangerous expedition. It was not, after

all, particularly imposing. The stream of molten matter,
issuing from a low cavern-mouth at the base of the cone,
was, I should think, not more than ten feet wide, and
moved at from one to two miles per hour: its surface

being so covered with chilled fragments of lava, as in
great measure to prevent the emission of light. The heat,
however, was great -- so great that approach was diffi

cult. I wished to burn the end of my alpenstock in the

lava-stream ; but, finding that my eyes strongly resented

the endeavour to go near enough, I got the man to burn

it. This he did by crawling and crouching behind blocks
of cooled lava till he was within reach.

   And now there came an extremely absurd act. After
paying the man for his trouble, and after duly contem
plating the sights around, from time to time looking up
wards to watch another burst from the cone, I com

menced my return. The man proposed to guide me along

the usual route, which traversed the chaotic tract I have
described, higher up the valley. I declined his guidance,

214

fci. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

should have done so is a matter of astonishment to me.

Though I had previously passed safely over treacherous

places, it by no means followed that on retracing my
steps one of these hidden tunnels, crossed at a somewhat

different point, would not give way. Had one done so,
then, though no longer red-hot internally, it would, by its

retained heat, have caused death after terrible torture.

How to account for the judicial blindness thus displayed,
I do not know ; unless by regarding it as an extreme

instance of the tendency which I perceive in myself to be

enslaved by a plan once formed --a tendency, in this case

co-operating with that above illustrated, to become for

a time possessed by one thought to the exclusion of

others.

   My clerical friend had waited for me. We descended

unharmed, and returned as the dusk came on: looking
over our shoulders occasionally to watch the bursts of

lava-spray, which, as the day-light decreased, became

gradually more luminous.

  To the things of interest in and around Naples I did
but scant justice. Of course I saw the Museum, and I

ascended to a monastery standing high up behind the

city -- I forget for what, unless it was for the view. After

that came an excursion to Pompeii.

Nothing which I saw in Italy impressed me so much
Ias this dead town.
                     take but little interest in what are

called histories, but am interested only in Sociology,

which stands related to these so-called histories much as

a vast building stands related to the heaps of stones and
bricks around it. Here, however, the life of two thou

sand years ago was so vividly expressed in the objects

                     215

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  (1868

them, that they aroused sentiments such as no written
record had ever done. The steps of the public buildings
worn away by the passage of countless feet ; the tracks
of wheels deeply cut into the flag-stones with which the
streets were paved ; the shops with their fronts open
from side to side like those still extant at Naples ; and the
household utensils of all kinds found everywhere ; made

one easily see in imagination the activities once carried
on. While here and there traces of prevalent usages sug
gested the characters of those who once thronged the

streets.

   One of the things which interested me was the struc
ture of the Roman house ; and this for reasons deeper
than the architectural and aesthetic. Its relations to
primitive types of habitations and to modern types, serv
ing to link the two, make it a good example of super-
organic evolution. From the outset of social life, defence
against enemies has been a predominant thought -- may

we not say the predominant thought ? Hence when, pass
ing over earlier stages, we come to the stage in which
there is a clustering of habitations, or of separate huts
forming one habitation, the general method is to arrange
them round a small area, presenting their backs to the
outer world while their doors open upon the inner space,

which has but a single entrance. In a South African
kraal the chambers of a chief's wives, the store-houses,

and so forth, are thus arranged : as are also the vehicles

of a traveller or a migrating Boer. A more complex

form of this arrangement was hit upon by the Pueblos
of North Mexico, who thus shut out invading tribes less
civilized than themselves. The prevalent house through
out the East down to our own day, similarly consults the

216

JEr. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

outer wall, and a court into which its component rooms

open. And a like construction survived with modifications

in the Pompeian house, after safety against enemies had

ceased to be so imperative a consideration. Throughout

times subsequent to the burial of Pompeii, this type per

sisted, with modifications dictated by the requirements.

The feudal castle had its parts thus related. So, too, as

we may see in both Italy and France, had the town-hotel

of the great noble. The Inn of the middle ages displayed

a like arrangement. The bed-rooms opened upon bal

conies running round the courtyard ; and this arrange

ment survived until recently not only in the Tabard, of

poetic fame, but at the Black Bull in Holborn, where,

when a boy of fourteen, I once slept in one of such bed

rooms. Large town-houses in old Paris, and still more

in Italian cities, show us the transition from this type, in

which the rooms of the same dwelling open into a central

court, to a type in which these rooms have developed into

separate dwellings -- houses round the court built with

their front doors opening into it. And we may readily

see how the court as thus composed, is transformed into

the narrow passage opening out of a main street, which

now bears that name. One of these internal squares with

its independent houses, needs but to have its sides

brought close together at the same time that it is

elongated, to produce one of the modern courts, so-called,

such as Dr. Johnson's Court and others opening out of
Fleet Street. Evidently there is an interesting chapter

of social evolution to be written about these progressive

modifications.                                  I did not

   Shortly after seeing Pompeii I left Naples.  to Capri ;

visit Sorrento or Amalfi, nor did I go over

          217

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                  [1868

est in the neighbourhood. But the " Eternal City " was

in prospect and tempted me away.

   A tedious railway- journey took me to Rome. Here the
aspect of things, and chiefly of the City itself, impressed

me very differently. Especially charming was the colour

ing, which seemed everywhere harmonious : each turn

round a street -corner disclosing a combination of tints
such as an artist might have devised, father Secchi, an
astronomer then of some note, to whom I had a letter of

introduction, and through whose telescope I saw some

star-spectra, ascribed this peculiarity in Rome to the
brightness of the light ; but as no such peculiarity struck

me in Naples, and as I did not see how more light could

give harmony to colours which were not otherwise har

monious, I could not accept the interpretation.

   Something like a fortnight was spent in Rome with

much interest : though probably not with so great an in

terest as that felt by most. For in me there were very few
of the historical associations. What Roman history I had

read in my boyhood had left but faint traces in my

memory. Even had it left clear images I doubt whether

my appreciation of the things seen would have been much
enhanced. To me the attractiveness of ancient buildings

is almost exclusively that resulting from the general im
pression of age which they yield, and from the pictur-

esqueness of decay. When I go to see a ruined abbey or
the remains of a castle, I do not care to learn when it was

built, who lived or died there, or what catastrophes it

witnessed. I never yet went to a battle-field, although

often near to one: not having the slightest curiosity to
see a place where many men were killed and a victory

218

JEi. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

that, if need were, I would rather pay him for his silence
than for his talk : much disliking, as I do, to be disturbed

while experiencing the sentiments excited in me by the
forms and colours of time-worn walls and arches. It is
always the poetry rather than the history of a place that
appeals to me. Such being the case, I, of course, looked

with uninterested eyes on many things in Italy which are

extremely interesting to those familiar with the incidents

they are connected with.

   I will not weary either the travelled or untravelled

reader by detailing my seeings and doings while in Rome.

One thing only am I prompted to do--to seize the occa

sion for venting my heresies concerning the old masters :
probably to the satisfaction of a few and the anger of
many. I have long wished to do this, and cannot now

let pass so convenient an opportunity.

  In Kugler's Hand Book of Painting I read, in the ac

count of Raphael's death :-- " Men regarded his works
with religious veneration, as if God had revealed himself

through Raphael as in former days through the

prophets." A feeling of this kind relative to Raphael,
widely diffused I suppose, has co-operated with another

feeling, also widely diffused, relative to the old masters

at large. Just as the paper and print forming a Bible

acquire, in most minds, such sacredness that it is an
offence to use the volume for any trivial purpose, such as

stopping out a draught ; so a picture representing some

Scriptural incident is, in most minds, placed above fault

finding by its subject. Average people cannot dissociate

the execution from the thing represented ; and condem
nation of the one implies in their thought disrespect for
the other. By these two feelings, criticism of ancient

          219

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                   [1868

faculty has been mesmerised by the confused halo of

piety which surrounds them.

   Hence when, in Kugler, I find it remarked concerning
Raphael's " Transfiguration " that " it becomes us to offer
any approach to criticism with all humility "-- when I

see the professed critic thus prostrating himself before a

reputation ; my scepticism respecting the worth of the

current applause  of the old masters is confirmed.   And
when those who    have " taken exception " to " the  two
fold action contained in this picture " are called by Kug
ler " shallow critics," I have not the slightest hesitation

in classing myself with them ; nor have I the slightest hesi

tation in rejecting the excuse that this fatal fault " is ex
plained historically " by the circumstances of the depicted

incident. As though a fundamental vice in a work of art

can be got rid of by learning that it is involved in the

scene represented ! As though one's eyes, gravitated now
to one, now to the other, of the conflicting centres of in

terest, can be prevented from doing so by any such ex

planation !

Detailed criticisms cannot be made intelligible when

the painting criticised is not before us ; otherwise many
might be passed on " the Transfiguration." For the same
reason it is difficult to deal in any but a general way with
Michael Angelo's frescoes in the Sistine Chapel. Were
they of recent date, we might marvel that the conception
of the Creator is made so little to transcend the concep
tion of the created as in the figures of God and Adam ;
and might say that the emergence of Eve out of Adam's

side is effected by a being more like a magician than a
Deity. But when we find the contemporary Protestant

Luther saying in his Table Talk that God " could be rich

                  220

^t. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

deny us the use of his creatures," and expressing his
belief that " it costeth God yearly more to maintain only
the sparrows than the yearly revenue of the French King
amounteth unto "-- when we find ideas so grossly an
thropomorphic in a reformer of the faith, we cannot ex
pect from Michael Angelo, holding the faith in its un-

reformed state, ideas that are other than grossly
anthropomorphic. Passing over criticisms of this class,
therefore, and admitting that there are many figures and
groups finely drawn (though they exhibit too much his

tendency to express mental superiority by supernatural
bigness of muscles) let me say something concerning the
decorations at large. Here the fault in art is of the same
kind as that which is common in the reception-rooms of

English houses, where the aim is to achieve two ends
that are mutually exclusive -- to make a fine whole and
to include a crowd of fine parts. Continually one sees

saloons so filled with paintings or engravings, statuettes,
vases, objects of vertu etc., that they have become little
else than picture galleries or cabinets of curiosities ; and
the general impression is lost in the impressions produced

by the multitudinous pretty things. But if a room is
to be made itself a work of art, as it should be, then the
paintings, statuettes and minor ornaments, must be rela

tively few in number, must be so distributed that they

fall into their places as component parts, and must none
of them be obtrusive enough to distract attention from
the ensemble. The like is true of every interior, no matter
what its size or purpose, and, among others, of such an

interior as the Sistine Chapel. If this be considered as

a receptacle for works of art, then it is faulty because it
displays them, or at any rate the greater part of them,

         221

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY              [1868

a work of art, then it is bad because the effects of its

decorative parts conflict too much with the effect of the

whole. Its fault as a whole is like the fault of one of its

chief components --the fresco of the Last Judgment ; over

which the eye wanders unable to combine its elements.

   Were there anything like discrimination in the praises
of pictures by the old masters -- were they applauded only

for certain merits at the same time that their demerits

were recognized, I should have no objection to make.

Or were each of them more or less approved as being

good relatively to the mental culture of its age, which

was characterized by crude ideas and sentiments and un

disciplined perceptions, I should agree that many of them

deserve praise. But the applause given is absolute instead

of relative; and the grossest absurdities in them are

habitually passed over without remark.    Take, for ex
ample, Guido's much admired fresco,      " Phcebus and

Aurora." That it has beauty as a composition is undeni

able. That the figures of the Hours are gracefully drawn

and combined is beyond question. Some of its unobtru

sive faults may fitly be forgiven. That the movements of

the Hours are such as could not enable them to keep

pace with  the chariot, and that, being  attached to figures
which are                                their own speed,"
            exposed to " the wind of

some of the draperies could not assume such forms as

are given, are defects which may be passed over ; since,
when the subject is supernatural, there are traits, such as

running on clouds, which are not to be tested by con-

gruity with observable facts. But as utter divergence

from the natural in the drawing of the figures, etc. would

not have been excused by the supernaturalness of the

subject ; so, neither should utter divergence from the

           222

Mt. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

the first place, the country over which the chariot is ada
vancing, instead of being shown as dimly lighted by                it,
shown as already in broad daylight-- daylight utterly                  is
unaccountable. Far more remarkable than this, however,
is
    the next anomaly. The entire group, -- the chariot and
         is !                              is
horses, the hours and their draperies, and even Phoebusis

himself, --are represented as illuminated from without:is
are made visible by some unknown source of light --
         a
some other sun Stranger still the next thing to be
noted. The only source of light indicated in the composi

tion --the torch carried by the flying boy--radiates no

light whatever. Not even the face of its bearer, imme
diately behind, illumined by it! Nay, this not all.
The crowning absurdity that the non-luminous flames
of this torch are themselves illuminated from elsewhere!
The lights and shades by which the forms of the flames
are shown, are apparently due to that unknown luminary
which lights up the group as whole, as well as the land
scape! Thus we have absurdity piled upon absurdity.
And further, we have them in place of the splendid
effects which might have been produced had Nature not

been gratuitously contradicted. If Phoebus himself had

been represented as the faintly-outlined source whence
radiated the light upon the horses, the hours, the drap
eries, the clouds, and the dimly-visible Earth, what
magnificent combination of lights and shades might have
been produced not taking away from, but emphasizing,
the beauty of the forms

   " You must not criticize the old masters in this way,"
  hear said by some. " You must consider the ideas and
sentiments expressed by their works, and the skilful com

position shown in them, and must overlook these tech
I
                                            :
                                                                      !
                                                                                                            a

         223

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1868

how many cases the merits thus assumed exist. But

without entering any such demurrer, I will limit myself
to the defects classed as technical ; and I reply that these

are not to be overlooked. When it is proved to me that,

on reading a poem, I should think only of the fineness of

the idea it embodies, and should disregard bad gram

mar, halting versification, jarring rhymes, cacophonous

phrases, mixed metaphors, and so on ; then I will admit
that in contemplating a picture I may properly ignore the

fact that the light is shown to come in various directions
or from nowhere in particular. After I have been per

suaded that while listening to a piece of music I ought

to ignore the false notes, the errors in time, the harshness
of timbre, as well as the lack of distinction between piano

and forte passages, and that I should think only of the
Ifeeling which the composer intended to convey : then

will agree that it is proper to pay no regard to the fact

that the shades in a picture have been all so unnaturally

strengthened as to make them everywhere alike in degree
of darkness, (a defect which cannot be explained away
as being due to the alleged darkening of the shadows by

time). Quite admitting, or rather distinctly affirming, as

I do, that truthful representation of the physical aspects of

things is an element in pictorial art of inferior rank to the

truthful representation of emotion, action, and dramatic

combination ; I nevertheless contend that the first must

be achieved before the second can be duly appreciated.

Only when the vehicle is good can that which is to be

conveyed be fully brought home to the spectator's con
sciousness. The first thing to be demanded of a picture
is that it shall not shock the perceptions of natural ap

pearances--the cultivated perceptions, I mean. If, as in

224

/Et. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

ing out of doors is represented with in-door lights and

shades upon it; and if a spectator who has looked at

Nature with such careless eyes that he is unconscious of
this incongruity, does not have his attention distracted
by it from the composition or the sentiment ; this fact is
nothing to the point. The standard of judgment must be

that of the observant -- not that of the unobservant. If we

may fitly take the verdicts of those who cannot distin
guish between truth and untruth in the physioscopy of a
picture, we may fitly go further, and make our aesthetic
ideas conform to those of the cottager who puts on his
mantel-shelf a gaudily painted cast of a parrot, and sticks
against his wall a coloured print of the Prodigal Son in

blue-coat and yellow breeches.*

   In rejoinder to all this, there will doubtless come from
many the question --" How about the experts ? how hap
pens it that they, who are the most competent judges,
applaud these same works of which you speak so dis

respectfully ?"

   My first reply is that, were the truth known, the ques

tion would be less unhesitatingly put; for by no means
all experts think what they are supposed to think. As

   * I venture the new word just used, because there exists no word ex
pressive of all those traits in a picture which concerns the physical ap
pearances of the objects represented. Under "physioscopy" I propose

to include the rendering of the phenomena of linear perspective, of aeriel
perspective, of light and shade, and of colour in so far as it is deter
mined not by artistic choice, but by natural conditions -- e.g. that of
water as affected by the sky, the clouds, and the bottom. The concep
tion, the sentiment, the composition, the expression, may some or all of
them be good in a picture of which the physioscopy, in some or all of
its elements, is bad ; and vice versa. The characteristics included in the
one group are entirely separate from those included in the other ; and
there needs a word by which the distinction may be conveyed without

          58 225

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1868

there is a religious orthodoxy so is there an aesthetic

orthodoxy ; and dissent from the last, like dissent from
the first, brings on the dissenter the reprobation of the
majority, which usually includes all who are in power.

Hence it results that many artists --especially when
young and afraid of offending the authorities -- refrain

from saying that which they secretly believe respecting

traditional reputations. As I can testify, there are those

among them who do not join in the chorus of applause
commonly given to the painters of past times, but who

know that their aesthetic heterodoxies, if uttered, would

make enemies. When, however, they have reason to
think that what they say will not bring on them the
penalties of heresy, they express opinions quite unlike

those they are assumed to hold.

   My second reply is that, so long as the professed ap
proval of artists is unaccompanied by adoption of the
practices of those approved, it goes for little. Imitation
is said to be the sincerest form of flattery --or rather, it

should be, not of flattery, but of admiration ; and there
are many traits of the old masters perfectly easy to imi
tate, which artists woud imitate if they really admired
them. Let us again choose illustrations from light and
shade. In the great majority of cases, ancient painters
represented shadows by different gradations of black :

making a tacit assumption like that made by every boy
when he begins to draw. But modern painters do not
follow this lead. Though the artist of our day may not
have formed for himself the generalization that a place
into which the direct light cannot fall, being one into
which the indirect and usually diffused, light falls, must
have the average colour of this diffused light (often

                                                   226

/Et. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

qualified by the special lights reflected from particular

objects near at hand), and that therefore a shadow may

be of any colour according to circumstances ; yet his
empirical knowledge of this truth makes him studiously

avoid the error which his predecessor commonly fell into.

Take another case. An assumption quite naturally made

at the outset, is that surfaces which retreat from the

light must in retreating become more deeply shaded ;

and, in conformity with this assumption, we usually see

in old paintings that while the outer parts of shadows

are comparatively faint, the parts remote from their

edges are made very dark--a contrast which must have

existed originally, and cannot have resulted from age.

But now-a-days only a tiro habitually does this. The

instructed man knows that the interior part of a shadow,

often no darker than its exterior part,
              is                                under some
                                           is,
conditions, even less dark than the part near its edge;

and he rarely finds the conditions such as call upon him

to represent the interior part of the shadow by an opaque

black. Once more there the kindred mistake, usual

in old paintings, that curved surfaces, as of limbs, where

they are shown as turning away from the general light,

are habitually not shown as having the limiting parts of

their retreating surfaces lighted up by radiations from

objects behind; as they in most cases are. But in mod

ern paintings these reflected lights are put in and true
                                          ;
appearance of roundness given.                                   ;
          I
                                                                     a
                                 is
Thus, as say, in respect of some most conspicuous

traits, easily imitated, the artist of our time carefully

avoids doing as the ancient artist did and such being the

case, his eulogies, he utters them, do not go for much.
          if

                                     227

                         AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                          [1868

from words and the evidence derived from deeds, we may
fitly prefer the evidence derived from deeds.*

  Concerning what I did and saw during the rest of my
tour, I need say but little. Those who have not seen Italy

have read about it. The subject has been so well worn by
generations of travellers that it is threadbare.

   My journey from Rome to Florence, like my journey
from Naples to Rome, of course gave me impressions of
Italian scenery. There was much to be admired, joined
to something with which to be disappointed. While the
colouring of the sky and clouds and the hills on the

horizon was more brilliant than any I had before seen,

the surfaces near at hand were generally unattractive:

being nearly always so ill covered with vegetation that the

  * The opinion of several experts to whom I have submitted in proof
the foregoing expressions of dissent from current opinion, show that I

am not without the sympathy of some who must be regarded as compe

tent judges. An R. A. writes: -- "Art amateurs often seem to me quite

' daft ' in their worship of old art, simply because it is old, without any

reference to its merit either of conception or execution. But this wor

ship is so deeply rooted, and so much esteemed ' the right thing ' that
any reformation in our own time is almost hopeless. Is it not The Au

tocrat of the Breakfast table who says that ' the mind of a bigoted person
                                                                   it,
is like the  p"upilAnof   the eye,  the more light you throw into              isthe more
contracts.'                         in whose opinion the works of  the old mas
                         A.R.A                                                            it
             I
                 I

                                  ,

                                          I
ters should be judged in connexion with the sentiments, ideas, and per

ceptions, of their respective times, and not from our point of view, pro

ceeds thus: -- "Now have said what had to say in vindication of the

old masters, but believe that what you have said against them cal

culated to do unmixed good, for no subject exists that has hitherto been

set forth to the world by persons so ignorant, so affected, or so impotent

as the scribbling critics of the last generation." Another A.R.A., who
says of certain ancient artists that " with all their faults we can see the

hand of genius," also says of what have written above that he hopesI

  "will help to stop some of the nonsense promulgated by the Kuglersit

                                    228

JEt. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

soil was everywhere visible between the leaves of the

plants and the blades of grass. I felt inclined to say of

Italy, that it is a land of beautiful distances and ugly

foregrounds.

  Florence I saw very incompletely: staying there, as I

did, only a week. From the collections of paintings

I derived more pleasure than from those in Rome, which
consists so largely of mere rubbish. I observed, however,
when going through those of the Pitti Palace and the
Uffizj, that some of the works I chiefly admired were by

painters whose names were unfamiliar to me : another

manifestation, I suppose, of my habitual nonconformity.
But, as I say, I gave inadequate attention to the attrac
tions of the place and its neighbourhood -- did not even
visit Fiesole. I was companionless and impatient. Going

alone from church to gallery and from gallery to church,

had become wearisome ; and, disappointed as I was in
the hoped-for benefits to health, I was anxious to get

home.

   Leaving Florence about the end of the first week in

April, while it was still very cold, and spending half a

day at Pisa, I went by night steamer from Spezzia to

Magazine of Art for July, 1888, a paper by Sir John Millais called

"Thoughts on Our Art of to-day," containing the following significant

utterances: -- "To say that the old alone is good betrays great lack of

judgment and is an ingratitude to the living. Ability and talent are
more abundant than ever ; but in forming an opinion of them the critic
falls into two great errors -- the first, in forgetting that the form and de
mands of Art have changed and expanded with the advance of time ;
and the second, in failing -- unconsciously, of course -- to judge of the
great works of the past, with which he compares those of the present, in
a fair and proper manner. He makes no allowances for the charm of
mutilation or the fascination of decay. . . . Time and varnish are two
of the greatest of old masters, and their merits and virtues are too often

attributed by critics --I do not of course allude to the professional art-

          229

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1868

Genoa. Two days were agreeably spent there; for the

city, like other Italian cities, has an individuality which

gives it interest. Thence I proceeded to Turin, which

was not attractive enough to detain me more than a day.

A railway journey to the Mont Cenis, and a journey by

night over the Pass, partly by diligence and partly by

sledge (for the tunnel was not yet made), brought me in
an exhausted state to Chambery, where I remained a day
and a half to recruit. Ending the next day at Medoc
and the day after that at Paris, I reached home without

further stoppage ; having been absent about six weeks.

   What I thought and felt about this expedition and its

results, may best be told by quoting a letter on the subject
written to my American friend on May 3. It ran as
follows :--

   " I cannot say that my hopes that a journey through Italy
would put me into working order were realized. I came
back no better than I went: in fact in some respects not so
well. I have, however, been improving very considerably

during the last week; especially in sleeping, which is my

great difficulty. Indeed I now feel pretty sanguine that with
tolerable care I shall shortly get into my usual state.

  IThanks for your reminder about my visit to America.

fear, however, there is no prospect of my soon responding

to your wish. My recent experience has given me very

conclusive proof that with my irritable nervous system, I
am quite unfit for travelling. I was greatly exhausted by
my journey to Marseilles, although I stopped a night at

Paris and a night at Lyons. My voyage to Naples did me

further damage. Sleep was quite out of the question. What

little I got during these nights, I owed to morphia. And

during the last three weeks of my stay abroad, a leading

230

JEt. 47]  A TOUR IN ITALY

with the least amount of injury--which was the shortest
route, and how it might best be broken into short stages.
After this experience you will see that it is out of the question
for me to commit myself to a ten or twelve days voyage, or
to such railway journeys as travelling through the U.S.

would involve. If I should ever again get into a normal
state, which does not seem very probable, I may decide
differently; but while I remain as I am I must give up the

idea of extensive journeys.

   A further reason for thus deciding is that, quite apart from
fatigue, I find the penalties of travelling greater than the
pleasures. In early days I had a considerable appetite for
sight-seeing; but now-a-days my appetite is soon satiated --

especially as, not looking at things through the spectacles
of authority, I often find but little to admire where the world

admires, or professes to admire, a great deal. The chief

pleasure I get in travelling I get from fine scenery; and of

this there is plenty to be had without leaving Great Britain."

   It should be added, however, that in this case, as in

many cases, a benefit not appreciable during the journey

itself began to be appreciable after it was over. One
may figuratively express the results of such experiences
by saying that after being hardly used for a time, the

          231

                   CHAPTER XLIII.

             DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY.

                       1867-- 70. /F.t. 47 -- 50.

   My daily efforts for some four months before the Italian

tour just narrated, had been expended on the " Data of
Psychology "-- the first division of the treatise in its de

veloped form. With this I struggled to make some

progress notwithstanding my nervous relapse; and to
that end, as already described, took Mr. Duncan with me
to the racquet court, and alternated between dictation
and games.

   Some of my friends have expressed surprise that I
should be able to carry on my work by dictation; and
others have expressed surprise that I should be able to
interrupt a course of thought, for the purpose of taking
exercise, and then resume it. " I do not think properly

until I take pen in hand," said one of them ; " and I am

at a loss to understand how you can reel off your ideas
to an amanuensis." Another described himself as unable
to bear interruption when once he got his thoughts bent
to a subject.

   The solution is much simpler than at first appears. In

an early chapter of this volume I described the way in

which my conceptions on this or that subject developed

themselves. I said that my method was not that of sit

                                                   232

/Et. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

to some conclusion, but was that of letting my ideas

about it slowly take shape. This process usually went on
for years. As the time approached when the conception
had to be set forth, it was of course more frequently

dwelt upon. The divisions of it gradually made them

selves clear; and presently a scheme of chapters was ar
ranged. Then each chapter, as I came near to
                                                                               it it,  fell

more or less completely into sections and eventually,
                                        ;

before writing section, the ideas to be set down in as
is
sumed tolerable distinctness. Thus the essential part of
          Ithe work -- the thinking -- was done before-hand and the
                                                                               ;
                     is
                           a                                                            It
process of writing or dictating became simply that of

putting into words the thoughts already elaborated.

was therefore easy to take up the thread when broken,

and to any idea that had been set down, join the idea

already internally arranged to follow it.            felt no such
                                        if

                                                  I
difficulty as doubtless felt by those who evolve their

ideas while writing; and who, interrupted, lose their

hold on thoughts which are just rising into consciousness.
   And here, while comparing these two modes of com

position, see that the contrast explains some traits of

style respectively accompanying them. Setting forth

ideas already reached         is is is  accompanied by but little

emotion; whereas evolving ideas from moment to mo

ment, while writing, inevitably causes exaltation of feel
ing. In the one case there calmness; in the other there

   fervour. But calmness not favourable to strong and

vivid forms of expression; whereas fervour prompts pic

turesque phrases, and vigorous metaphors. The telling

expressions used by my friend who says he does not
think to purpose until he gets pen in hand, have often

                              doubtless true that for purposes
raised my envy.               It

                                    is
                                                                           is
of philosophy, clearness rather than strength the desid-

                              233

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

eratum. But for writing of a not strictly philosophical
or scientific kind, one may fitly desire to use those modes

of embodying thoughts which result from emotion and

are calculated to excite emotion.

  Resuming the thread of my narrative, I have to add

that when, after partially recovering from the effects of

my Italian tour, I recommenced work, I reverted to the

alternation of exercise and dictation-- substituting row
ing for racquets. The part of the Serpentine above the
bridge is within 10 minutes walk of Queen's Gardens;
and here, on fine mornings in May and June, and again

in the Autumn, I passed two or three hours: the shrub

bery overhanging the water on the west bank, affording
convenient shelters under which to moor the boat while

dictating.

  My journey to the furthest point South I had hitherto

reached, was followed, three months later, by a journey

which carried me to the northernmost point of my vari

ous excursions. In July I went as far as Sutherlandshire

in search of fishing, and stayed for a week at Inverann
at the mouth of the Shin. But the long drought of that

summer continued, and I came away disappointed.
  On my way back I bethought me of Inveroran, a place

between Tyndrum and Glencoe, where there was salmon
fishing free to all staying at the hotel. Common sense
had told me that free salmon fishing must be bad salmon

fishing; but common sense had misled me. Common
sense, which would reject as monstrously absurd the
statement that a whale is more nearly akin to a man

than to a shark, always proceeds upon the assumption
that the insides of things are just what the outsides might

234

Mi. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

are unlike appearances. So it proved at Inveroran;

owing to circumstance which no longer exist. A letter
to Lott, written thence on Aug. 13, must here be quoted --

" You were quite right in your opinion, given to G. Holme,

about my standing for Derby. If they would pay my ex

penses and give me a salary into the bargain, I would not
go into parliament. I could not do my present work and
parliamentary work too; and my present work I hold to be
by far the most important. Some day, if a constituency
should ask me to become a candidate, I mean to give them

(and the public) " a bit of my mind/' as to the relative

values of those who represent public opinion in the House of

Commons, and those who mould public opinion by books.

How about our excursion? What do you say to a fort

night in North Yorkshire? It would be new to both of us,

and they say there is very fine scenery there. We could

meet there conveniently on my way south, and might diverge

into the Lake district if we did not like it. . .

   As you did not come up to be my guest in London at

Xmas or Easter, I propose that you make amends by coming

to be my guest in Yorkshire, or wherever else we go.     set

  I have had some capital fishing since the wet weather
in-- far better than I looked for."

   Many years elapsed before there occurred an oppor
tunity for carrying into effect the intention expressed

in the first of the foregoing paragraphs. It did eventually

occur, however, and I then fulfilled the intention. My

apprehension was that general reprobation would fall

on me in consequence; but, to my surprise, there came

general approbation. I suspect that a chief cause for

this was that the tone of the House of Commons was

already undergoing that degradation which has since be

come so conspicuous.
   The proposal made in the second paragraph was pres

235

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

ently carried out. My friend and I met at Harrogate,

and, taking rail to Ilkley, walked the first day thence to
Bolton Abbey, where we lingered till the bats were flying
about in the evening. Something more than a week
was spent in our subsequent ramble : ascending the valley
of the Wharfe to Kettlewell ; from there over to Middle-
ham; up Wensleydale to Hawes; down the valley of
the Eden to Appleby; over the moors or fells to High
Force on the Tees ; down the course of that river to Dar
lington; and thence to York, where we parted for our re

spective homes.

   I have not yet mentioned the fact that, for some years,

the Leweses had been residing at The Priory, North
Bank. The distance from Queen's Gardens is but a mile;
and this proximity conduced to more frequent inter

course. There arose a standing engagement to go and

lunch with them whenever I found it convenient. The

motive for the arrangement was in part that we might

have opportunities for conversations, enjoyed on both
sides, which were impracticable during their Sunday-

afternoon assemblies.

  I am led to name here this established usage because

my return from Scotland this year must have been the
occasion for one of those witticisms which George Eliot

sometimes uttered. I had, as commonly happened after

an interval of absence, been giving an account of my do

ings ; and, among other things, had laughingly described

the dismay caused in two fishermen at Inveroran by the

success of my heterodox flies. This led to an inquiry con

cerning the nature of my heterodoxy. I explained that
I did not believe in the supposed critical powers of

236

JEr. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

hungry, saw something it took for a fly, it would rise;

and that consequently my aim was to make the best aver

age representation of an insect buzzing on the surface
of the water. " Yes," she said, " you have such a passion

for generalizing, you even fish with a generalization."

This reference to her good things reminds me of one

which Lewes told me she had uttered at the expense of

Dr. A  , a friend of theirs who was remarkable for his

tendency to dissent from whatever opinion another ut

tered. After a conversation in which he had repeatedly
displayed this tendency, she said to him " Dr. A
                                                  how

is it that you always take your colour from your com
"/pany?"
               take my colour from       m" yYecs,o"msphaenyre?p"liehde,
exclaimed --"                         "
               What  do  you  mean
" the opposite colour."             ?

Our talk, if not very often enlivened by witticisms,

always contained a mixture of the gay with the grave:

good stories and a little badinage breaking our discus

sions, which were generally quite harmonious ; for there

were but few points on which we disagreed. Then after

luncheon came a walk, usually in Regent's Park, in which

I joined: another hour of interesting conversation be

ing the accompaniment.

   Though they were partial adherents of M. Comte my
friends did not display much respect for the object which

he would have us worship. Reverence for humanity in

the abstract seemed, in them, to go along with irrever

ence for it in the concrete. Few of these occasions I have

described, passed without comment from them on the
unintelligence daily displayed by men -- now in main

taining so absurd a curriculum of education (which they

                              237

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                           [1867-70

           legislation, which continually repeat, with but small difqf
           ferences, the follies of the past, now in the irrationalitiesit,
          of social habits.
                                     I
             I have myself often startled people by the paradox that
          A it  it
          mankind go right only when they have tried all possible
          ways of going wrong -- intending of course, to be takenit
          not quite literally. Of late, however, have observeda
          sundry cases in which, instead" going beyond the fact,
                                                                                  :
             falls short of --cases in which, having found the right,
it                  aa                                                  a      a
        itpeople deliberately desert for the wrong. They do this            a
          even in simple household usages, where small modia
          cum of sense might have been expected to prevent them.
                        a
               generation ago salt-cellars were made of convenienta

          shapes --either ellipses or elongated parallelograms the

          advantage being that the salt-spoon, placed lengthwise,
          remained in its place. But, for some time past, fashion
          has dictated circular salt-cellars, on the edges of which
          the salt-spoon will not remain without skilful balancing:

             falls on the cloth. Table-implements afford another ex
          ample. In my boyhood jug was made of form at once
          convenient and graceful. The body of the jug had shape
          deviating but little from sphere, and therefore had the
          advantage that however the jug was inclined the surface

          of the contained liquid had, for considerable time,
          nearly the same area; so that, with increasing inclina
          tion, pouring out went on at tolerably uniform rate.
          The spout, too, was sufficiently large; and of such shape
          that would deliver either small or large quantity
          without waste. And then, within the limits of conveni
          ence, the outline of jug and handle admitted of numerous
          elegant combinations of curves. Now, however, the pre
          vailing-- indeed almost universal -- form of jug in use,

                        238

JEt. 47-S0] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

bines all possible defects. When anything like full, it is

impossible to pour out a small quantity without part of

the liquid trickling down beneath the spout; and a larger

quantity cannot be poured out without exceeding the

limits of the spout and running over on each side of it.

If the jug is half empty, the tilting must be continued

for a long time before any liquid comes ; and then, when
it does come, it comes with a rush; because its surface

has now become so large that a small inclination delivers
a great deal. To all which add that the shape is as ugly
a one as can well be hit upon. Still more extraordinary

is the folly of a change made in another utensil of daily

use. Till within these few years, an extinguisher had

universally the form of a hollow cone. Nothing could be

better. It would fit any candle; it went down upon it

until it was arrested by the melted edge of the candle;

and it then formed a chamber in which the smoke was

shut up and the wick preserved from damage. Now, how

ever, we meet with extinguishers made in the form of a

hollow cylinder with a hemispherical end. When one is

put on a candle  will go over at all) descends
                 (if
                     it
                        is
                                                it
                                                                it
until the hemispherical end squashes the wick into the

melted composition: the result being that when, next
day, the extinguisher taken off, the wick, imbedded in

the solidified composition, cannot be lighted without dif
ficulty. Here, then, are three of the commonest house

hold appliances, good forms of which have been delib

erately abandoned and bad forms adopted.
   One reason why good things thus fail to hold their

ground against bad ones, recently came to my knowl
edge. For twenty years had used with great satisfac
a

                        I
tion kind of inkstand which possesses every desirable

                 239

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY          [1867-70

out the dust, and allows the depth of the dip to be ad

justed to a nicety. I recommended it to some friends,

and tried to buy samples to send them. None of the sta

tioners of whom I inquired knew anything about it. At

length I went to the wholesale producer, Perry; and it

was only because his people had some old stock remain

ing that I obtained it even there, for they had ceased to
make it. I asked the manager why things which, when

they came in, were recognized as eminently good, dis

appeared again -- why the stationers did not keep them.
"Oh! Sir," he replied, "when our travellers go round,

the stationers, after a short time, will not take them.

' We had some of these last year,' they say: ' show us

your novelties.' Always the cry for something fresh."

If we go behind this, it is clear that the stationer wants

the last new things, because his customers want them;

and that they buy them without thinking whether they
are better or worse than the old things. Thus articles

in every way admirable are actually expelled from the

market! And then the insane love of change shown in

such cases, we find accompanied by an insane resist

ance to change in other cases! Where cogent reasons
for giving up established usages are manifest to every

one, people persist in them; and where there is every
reason for adhering to what they have got, they are eager

for something else!                 Let me return to

  But I am getting too discursive.

an account of my doings in the days which were now

passing.

  On preparing to do this I suddenly find that I am
promising more than I can perform. Of incidents dur

          240

/£t. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

the next, my memory contains no traces; and on refer

ring to letters I find scarcely anything to help me. One
solitary fact of significance is named in a letter to You-

mans dated 19 Sept.; and this is of more interest to me

than to the reader -- the fact, namely, that another of my

books had been taken in hand by a French translator:

making three that were simultaneously in progress.

Nothing more worth mention occurs before the 15th of

March   p1a8s6s9a. ge:T--hen  comes a  letter  containing the  fol
lowing

" Certainly, the falling off in the American sales of my books

last year is somewhat unexpected. The Biology, and the second

edition of First Principles, cannot yet have returned to me

the cost of the stereotype plates ; so that thus far I am rather

out of pocket by the American editions than a gainer by

them. It seems odd, too, that with an increased number

of volumes on sale, the return should be much less instead

of much more. I suppose it must all be taken as proof that

the public attention flags when, as you say, nothing has been

done to excite it.

" It is, however, a consolatory fact for me that I have no

longer any reason to complain that public appreciation here
is so much less than it is in America. The relation between
the two is now very decisively reversed. Last year my net
profit from the sale of books (leaving out the subscriptions
for the serial) was considerably more than double that which
the account shows to have resulted from the American sales.
So you must not in future make any comparisons between
the American and English publics to the disadvantage of the
latter."

I should have said, however, that the two sums com

pared did not measure the numbers of books sold; since

my profit per copy from sales in England is double that
yielded by sales in America. Bearing in mind, too, that

        59 241

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

the retail price per copy in America is somewhat lower,
it would seem that the numbers sold in the two coun

tries respectively did not differ much.

   Doubtless the increased sales in England were largely
due to the energetic action taken by my friends Mill,
Huxley, Tyndall, Lubbock, and Busk, in 1866; and to
the consequent attention drawn to my books -- an atten
tion which was doubtless increased when statements

about the American testimonial were made public here.

Let me add that from this time forth I had no adverse

circumstances to contend with. The remainder of my

life-voyage was through smooth waters.

No memories were raised by coming upon the follow
                  a letter written on 14 April 1869: --
ing sentence in   I am still not well, and am leaving town
" Though better,

to-day for a short ramble in the country." But for a

letter written on June 25, I should have failed to identify
the occasion as one on which I went first to Oxford

(whence, before twenty-four hours had passed, I fled to
escape invitations); then walked to Blenheim, where I

rambled about the park, and slept at Woodstock ; and on

subsequent days went through Evesham to Tewkesbury,

and into the country beyond. The passage which re
called these incidents was the following: --

" The most striking fact, perhaps, is that which came to my

knowledge when at Oxford lately. To my amazement I found

that First Principles and the Principles of Biology are being
used as text-books there, and questions for examination

papers taken from them. Dr. Rolleston stopped a student

and asked him, in my presence, whether he had entered on

my books yet. He replied that he was just about to com

                  242

J£.t. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

This passage I quote not so much for its intrinsic in

terest as because it introduces the statement of an anom

alous fact. University College, London, was founded for

the purpose of giving an unsectarian education, free from

the ecclesiastical influences which pervade Oxford and

Cambridge ; and, by implication, it was to be the home of

a liberal theology: tinged even with rationalism, if the

opinions of its leading spirits indicated anything. Hence

there might have been expected a sympathetic reception

to books of an advanced kind, embodying what may be

called a naturalistic philosophy as distinguished from a

super-naturalistic philosophy. But while, in the head

quarters of orthodoxy, my books were being used as text

books, they were not used at the place which, by con

trast, might almost be called the head-quarters of hetero

doxy. More than this. While at Oxford the authori

ties put them before the students, at University College

they were not even included in the Library. Nay more

than this even. Requests made by the students that one

of them might be put in the Library received no atten
tion. Two years after the foregoing extract was written,
Dr. Bastian shewed me, in the book kept for the pur

pose, two requisitions for First Principles; one of them

dated December 1869 and signed by ten students, and

the other dated March 1870, also signed by ten students,
            "               "
and marked     third  time      :  all three,  as it seems,  having

been ignored by the Council ; for the book was not in the

Library in September 1871.
   How many things there are contrary to common sense!

I have already named one in this chapter, and here is

another.

A letter received during this absence from London re

                                              243

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

calls an incident which must be here mentioned -- the

formation of the Metaphysical Society. The letter was

from Sir John Lubbock, asking whether I would become

a member.

   The Society was to have, he said, a somewhat remark

able character; for its members were to be men of the

most diverse opinions, from Roman Catholics like Car
dinal Manning at the one extreme, to agnostics like Hux

ley and Tyndall at the other extreme, and everything

was to be an open question, even to the existence of a

deity: original intentions which were, I believe, fairly

well carried out. I declined to join for the reason that

too much nervous expenditure would have resulted.

Every attendance would have entailed a sleepless night;

and I did not think that any benefit to be derived would

have been worth purchase by this penalty: involving loss

of my small working power next day. After the body

was constituted I was again requested to join, and to at

tend the first meeting; but though Mr. Knowles, the

secretary, through whom the request came, named, as a

special reason for assenting, the fact that the first paper

to be read was one by Mr. Richard Hutton, attacking
my theory of the genesis of the moral sentiments, I per

sisted in my resolution.

   Beyond those named above, various distinguished men
joined the Society-- Mr. Gladstone, Mr. Tennyson (who,

with Mr. Knowles, I believe, had started the idea), the
Rev. James Martineau, Sir J. F. Stephen, Dean Stanley
&c. &c. At each meeting a paper by some member,

which had been printed and circulated, was discussed.

Several years subsequently, during an after-dinner con
versation in which the proceedings were described as re

244

iET. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

by Mr. Knowles that I should join. After referring to

the statement made that many of the members had so
little thought in common that they slid by one another

without grappling, I remarked that Mr. Knowles had
better not press me, since most likely were I one of them
I should insist on grappling, and that possibly the pro
ceedings would cease to be so harmonious. A dozen

years or so brought the Society to an end. Most of the
topics of chief interest had been discussed, and no re
sults produced, save perhaps a certain liberalization in
the estimates formed by the members of one another's
views. No further results being promised, and the ex
citement of novelty having ceased, the attendance flagged
and the Society dissolved.

   I now come upon an incident of which the interest is

more than personal -- an incident, indeed, of which the

impersonal interest is great; since it concerns the cor
rection of a grave error in recent History, and the recti

fication of international feeling. It may be most con

veniently introduced by an extract from a letter three

years earlier in date, which I have reserved for quotation

here, as being relevant to the transaction which now took

place. Writing to Youmans on March 2d 1866, I said: --
" I recently met Mr. [Moncure] Conway, whose papers in

the Fortnightly have been doing good service here, and have

impressed me in his favour much more than when I first saw
him. I took the opportunity of suggesting to him to do what
I have very much wanted to see done, towards correcting

the impressions of Americans respecting the original feeling
of the English when the war broke out, and which, as you
have heard me say, was quite different from what is sup
posed in the United States. Mr. Conway's residence in

                                                   245

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                     [1867-70

was quite aware that the original feeling here was that which

I have described to you; and that it was changed as I told

you. He said that he had been thinking of publishing some
thing in America, giving the result of his experience here,

towards rectifying American impressions. But he agreed
that instead of giving his own impressions, it would be best

Ito take the course named, namely to give, in the order of

their dates, extracts from the leading English periodicals,

showing what the feeling originally was and how it gradu

ally changed, and what were the adverse influences that

changed it. I hope he will persevere in the intention which

he expressed, of issuing in America a pamphlet containing
this evidence."

Either Mr. Conway did not carry out his expressed

intention, or he did it with but little success; for the ill

feeling in the United States not only continued, but be

came exacerbated. During the early part of 1869, the

utterances of the American press against England were

violent ; and I feared that something more than a war of

words might ensue. Knowing that the belief current in

America was entirely untrue, I thought it very desirable

that some attempt should be made to rectify it ; and after

talking the matter over with the Leweses, who encour

aged me to take the step I contemplated, I drew up a let

ter for publication in one of the New York papers, giving
the indisputable facts. With it I sent the following pri

vate letters to Youmans, dated May 22.

" The accompanying long letter, though addressed to you

personally, is of course intended for publication. When you

           think you will agree with me that the facts
have readI it

                    it,

                 I

                                                            it
contains should not any longer remain unknown to your

countrymen.                                                     to such of the New
       must leave you to communicate

           246

Mr. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

Tribune referred to as the bitterest of them all against

England ; and I suppose that some difficulty might hence
arise if you took it there. Or else, in other respects, the
Tribune would seem the most desirable. I suppose simul

taneous publication in more than one, would not be prac

ticable.

   I do not know what may be the result of the publication of

this letter on my personal relations with the American public.

But, if it should be injurious, I am content to bear the injury."
   In due time there came a reply explaining that the

publication had been delayed until he had laid before me

the reasons for withdrawing my letter. Among other
things he said: --

   " I read your letter intended for publication with some sur

prise and with an unhesitating conviction that it would be
unwise to print it. But, as you seemed to think the case both

clear and urgent, I at once complied with your request and

took it to the Tribune. You were quite in error in antici
pating difficulty there; when I named to them its subject
and author they ordered it to be set up at once. By a
singular coincidence, both Fiske and Roberts happened to
be in town, and I met them in the evening at the Century
Club with Vaux, Holt, and Prompelly -- all friends and co

workers. I handed the proof to Fiske, who looked over it and

exclaimed ' What does this mean ? Surely Mr. Spencer isn't
going to publish this !' All the others read it and they were
all of the same mind. As for the subject of the letter, they

were indifferent and agreed, first, that if you had been here

at any time when the question was agitating the American
mind and had been disposed to enter into the subject, you

would not have taken it up in that way; and second, if

you were here now, you would not dream of touching it at
all, as it is a dead subject with us. But their decided ex
pressions of the unwisdom of the publication had reference

                                                  247

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                                                          [1867-70

it seriously; and, granting that you had a perfect right to

sacrifice them if you thought it best, they were of opinion

that you ought not to embarrass your friends in the way that

the publication would embarrass them."

  Eventually, and with a good deal of reluctance, I as

sented to the withdrawal; as witness the following extract

from a letter dated June 25.
" Taking into consideration all that you tell me, I conclude
that it will be best not to publish the letter. It is somewhat

vexing to have bestowed so much trouble to no purpose ; and

I cannot but regret that the facts which the letter contains

should continue unknown to the American public. As, how

ever, the occasion which prompted me to write the letter has

passed by, and as, indeed, the expressions of your press seem

to have misled us here respecting the state of American

opinion, I yield to the representations you make. Of course
I have no wish to damage my position with the American
public, and I should be very sorry to embarrass my Amer
ican friends. If you have no use for the proof of the letter,
you may as well send it to me, as I should like to preserve it."

Though not published at that time, the letter was pub

lished some years after, when more pacific sentiments

prevailed. Even then, however, the statements contained

it,
                                                is

                                                                                        it
in conclusive though they were, and impossible as

was to invalidate them, were treated with but small re
spect. How constantly one misled by the assumption

that incontestable proofs will change men's opinions!

Where there exists strong prepossessions, no amount of

evidence produces any effect.

This letter, as eventually published in the New York

Tribune, reproduce in Appendix  feeling that unless
it

         I

                                          a

                                             E

                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                     a
obtains somewhere permanent place, the history of

our relations with America will be vitiated by perma

248

JEr. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

   Shortly before the close of the London season, I wrote
to John Mill on some matter which I forget, and, refer

ring to my approaching departure for Scotland, sug

gested, more in jest than in earnest, that if he would join

me, I would initiate him in salmon-fishing. The follow

ing passage from his reply refers to this offer.
   " My murderous propensities are confined to the vegetable

world. I take as great a delight in the pursuit of plants as

you do in that of salmon, and find it an excellent incentive to

exercise. Indeed I attribute the good health I am fortunate

enough to have, very much to my great love for exercise, and

for what I think the most healthy form of walking."
               ;

                a

                       I
                                        a
                                                     it,
Having in boyhood had little or no experience of the

ordinary boyish sports, Mill had somewhat erroneous

conception of them. Hence the inappropriate use of the
word " murderous " as though the gratification were

exclusively in killing. But quite agree in the implied

objection he makes to pursuits that inflict pain. Though

so fond of fishing as boy, my dislike to witnessing the

struggles of dying fish, becoming stronger as grew
                                                               II
older, had the result that between 21 and 35 never

fished at all. It was only because, on being prompted to

try the experiment at the latter age, found fishing so
          a

            I

                 it
                               a it

                                             I

                                                           it
admirable sedative, serving so completely to prevent

thinking that took to again, and afterwards deliber

ately pursued  with view to health. Nothing else

served so well to rest my brain and fit for resumption

of work.

Of my doings in Scotland during the Autumn, the fol

lowing letter to Lott, dated Oban, Aug. nth, says nearly
as much as needful: --

" If you had been at liberty
          is

                                             a
                                                                    a

                                                                                   it
                              week or                          fortnight ago

               249

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

   I have been in Scotland a month last Saturday--chiefly at

Inveroran, waiting for fishing which the dry weather would

not let me have. I got only two salmon. Last Friday I left
in disgust before I had intended; for I meant to stay there
till I joined the Smiths, who had left me to fix my own

time. They were to leave town at the beginning of this

month ; and I wrote from Inveroran saying I would be with
them on the nth (to-day). But since my arrival here I

learn that they have not reached Ardtornish yet ! So here

I have to kick my heels again. However they will probably
arrive to-day, and I may possibly join them before the end

of the week.

   After I leave them, sometime early in September, I have

promised to join the Busks, who have taken a house at
Taynuilt; so you see I am fixed. I am very sorry your

holiday was not earlier."

   My fishing this year derived a special interest from the

trial of a new fishing rod, or rather, a fishing rod with a
new kind of joint. Of course it was not in my nature to

rest content with that which I found in use, if it had any

manifest defects ; and both the forms of joint in use were

seriously defective: the simple splice-joint entailed much

trouble, and the socket-joint was heavy, and had sundry

inconveniences. The form of joint which I devised in

place of them proved satisfactory; and having borne the

tests to which it was submitted, I eventually published an

account of it in the Field some time in January 187 1.
The letter is reproduced in Appendix F.

   Aird's Bay House, taken by the Busks for the autumn,

is on the shore of Loch Etive about a mile from Taynuilt

and, leaving Ardtornish towards the middle of Septem

ber, I there joined them.

   Those who have seen Loch Etive only from the rail

250

JEt. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

its beauties. These lie in the part beyond Ben Cruachan,
and with the exception of Loch Hourn, Scotland has
nothing at once so grand and beautiful. Boating excur
sions on this secluded portion, with rambles and picnics

on its shores, filled a pleasant ten days. An island beyond
the ferry was at that time frequented by seals, which it
was interesting to watch through an opera glass. Then

on the sheltered and smooth water there were some

times reflections more splendid than I ever saw else
where --whole sides of Ben Cruachan and his neigh
bours being vividly mirrored. An excursion made to

Loch Awe is linked to my other memories by a natural-
history observation made there. The waters were swarm

ing with the Volvox globator, which I had never seen

before and have never seen since.

   After September 22, when I got back home, the first

trace of any break in my daily routine occurs in a letter
dated February 25, 1870; and this is but an insignificant
trace. Describing myself as "a martyr to indigestion and

consequent very bad sleeping," I speak of a forthcom

ing remedial excursion for a few days with Lewes. We
went round the south of the Isle of Wight. How often
it happens that extremely small things dwell in one's
memory, when great ones disappear. Nothing remains
with me of this excursion save two trivialities -- the one
that we played billiards at Ventnor, the other that, when

sitting down to dinner at Freshwater, I made Lewes

laugh by exclaiming --" Dear me these are very large
chops for such a small island." And here, with this re
mark about the survival of trivialities in one's memory,
I may join the remark that with me any tendency towards

                                                   251

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                   [1867-70

as in this case, caused by pleasurable health-giving

change, or, more commonly by meeting old friends.

Habitually I observed that, on seeing the Lotts after a
long interval, I was apt to give vent to some witticisms

during the first hour or two, and then they became rare.

  To Youmans, on March 9, I wrote a letter of which

some paragraphs must be quoted: --
" Very unfortunately for me, though perhaps fortunately for

himself, Mr. Duncan has been appointed Professor of Logic

&c. at Madras; and leaves me for India some six weeks

hence. It will be a very difficult thing for me to find anyone

to undertake and carry on efficiently the work he has been

doing in preparing classified and tabulated materials for the

Principles of Sociology.

   I remember you telling me that in America, there are

plenty who would gladly undertake the post which Mr.

Duncan fills ; and that so far from having to pay a secretary,

I might, if I pleased, put up the post to auction, and accept

the highest bidder. Without entertaining any such droll

notion, I am led to infer from this statement of yours, that
I might perhaps be more likely to find with you, than over

here, some competent man who would render me the re

quired services in return for the very moderate salary I can

afford. . . .

  I had a pleasant surprise this morning. It came in the

shape of an Essay on Longevity by E. Ray Lankester, one
of the rising young biologists. It turned out to be an avowed

corollary from the Principles of Biology, to which, as the
author says, it might form an additional chapter. But the

pleasant surprise is this, that the prize was offered, and

adjudged to this essay of Mr. Lankester, by the University

of Oxford. Fancy the Oxford authorities giving a public
                                                 "
endorsement  to  the  doctrine  of   Evolution
                                                !

The loss of Mr. Duncan created great inconvenience.

                                252

&i. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

continue until the work undertaken by him was finished.

But I could not, under the circumstances above indicated,

hold him to his bargain. He was engaged; and some
little time before this date, had intimated to me his inten
tion of marrying, narrow as his means were. To have let
him do so foolish a thing, while also giving up a prom
ising career, was out of the question; and therefore,
though he expressed his willingness to abide by our

agreement, I released him. He promised to go on with the

work in India as fast as his professional duties allowed;

and he loyally fulfilled this promise --finishing the divi

sion he was engaged upon without further remuneration.
   The next passage in the correspondence which seems

worth quoting, is dated 26 April :--

I" regretted very much to hear of your having been so

unwell. I have long feared that, like many others who are

anxious to diffuse a knowledge of the laws of health, you
would yourself have to suffer from continuously disregard

ing them. As I sometimes say jokingly to Huxley, a propos
of his transgressions, we ought to erase the proverb--

" Experience makes fools wise," and write in place of it--

" Experience does not even make wise men wise." I hope,

at any rate, that henceforth you will not so lavishly expend
your energies for the benefit of others, taking no care of
yourself. . . .

   In the forthcoming number of The Fortnightly you will
find an article of mine on " The Origin of Animal Worship."

You will at first perhaps wonder why I suspended my
ordinary work to write it. I did so because it lies in the
line of my future work, and because I saw that the matters
with which it deals are now being so much studied, that if I
waited until I got to the Sociology I should probably be

forestalled by some one who had meanwhile reached the

                                                  253

                    AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY       [1867-70

further illustration of Evolution, and also as, by implication,

another heavy blow to current beliefs."

This article was dictated while I was boating on the

Regent's Park water; and my amanuensis was a youth

whose name I cannot recall, but who, a few years ago,

wrote me a letter from the East with the signature

Baron               ; telling me how he had prospered, even to

the attainment of a title (in what way he did not say), and
then reminding me that he had written the above-named

essay to my dictation.

   Of my life between September 1869 and July 1870,
there is nothing more to record than is contained in the

above quotations and comments.

An old manor house called The Argoed, about four

miles below Monmouth on the banks of the Wye, but

high above the stream, had been for some years in the

possession of my friend Potter; who had bought withit,

the surrounding lands, as sanatorium for his children:
                        a
                                        a
the climate of Standish being relaxing. Here, in July,

1870, went with him and two of his daughters. During
  pleasant ten days there occurred droll incident. Tin-
a

                 1

tern had to be seen; and one fine day boatmen from

Monmouth took the young ladies and myself down the

river. The moonlight effects on the ruins of the Abbey

are said to be very fine and, filling the intervening time
                     ;

by going on to the Wyndcliffe, we went to the Abbey in

the evening. There we waited and waited, wondering

how was that the moon made no sign, and frequently
it

glancing with impatience towards the grove through

which we expected to see its light. Presently the mys

tery was explained.     rose above the trees in state
                     It

                                                                         a

                        254

for. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

was supposed that I, interested in all science, should of
course have known that an eclipse was about to take place.
I am reminded of a kindred supposition on the part of the
head-waiter at the Athenaeum, who sometimes, when the
addition of the dinner bill was called in question, smiled at
an error made by a mathematical friend of mine: being
surprised that a distinguished mathematician should err
in his figures. The truth is that wide grasp of the gen

eral is not necessarily connected with great aptitude for
the special.

   After a day at Monmouth, pleasantly varied by a visit
to Raglan Castle, a Sunday at Hereford, some of which
was passed in the enjoyment of Cathedral music, and

days and parts of days at Ludlow, and Shrewsbury, I

joined the Lotts at Llanfairfechan, on the north coast of
Wales. A fortnight spent there has among its remem
brances the rush down to the station every morning to
get papers with the last news of the Franco-German war,
which had just commenced -- a war of which the issues

were so immense that one could not but watch its stages
with breathless interest. Sir William Gull and Sir James
Paget (not at that time bearing the titles they now have)
were staying at Penmaenmawr, near at hand; and one
of my pleasant recollections is of a drive to the Penrhyn
slate quarries, in which they kindly invited me to join
them: a good deal of scientific talk being the accom
paniment.

  I had never seen Ireland; and when my friends left for
Derby, I was prompted, partly by this consciousness and

partly by the desire for the good salmon-fishing which

I heard was to be had at Ballina, to take my departure

for Holyhead and Dublin. But as a drought, which then

                                                  255

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

living, not very satisfactory even in Dublin, threatened
to be unsatisfactory at Ballina; my resolution was aban

doned. Taking train to Belfast and steamer to Glasgow,

I presently found myself at Inveroran. Thence after a
time I returned to London.

    This did not end my Autumn holiday however; or
rather, there followed it something which was half holi
day and half a kind of excitement which tells on me as
much as work. The British Association met at Liver
pool in September, and Huxley was President. Of

course I went there to do what little towards the success

of the meeting, might be done by adding one to the as

sembly. On this, as on other occasions when a member

of the X Club presided, the gathering had a concomitant

pleasure resulting from the quasi-domestic arrangements

made. All members of the X who came, usually bring

ing their wives, took a suite of rooms at the chief hotel
and united their forces: the liveliness of the party being

increased by extending hospitalities to distinguished
members of the Association not belonging to the group.

   Deviating from the ordinary course, which was to give

a summary of scientific progress, the presidential address
dealt with the subject of spontaneous generation, just
then much discussed, and gave an account of the dissipa
tion of the once-universal belief in it. There resulted a

controversy which gave special animation to the Biologi

cal Section. Strangely enough there were some biolo
gists who thought that their experiments verified the old
belief; and further thought that the general doctrine of
Evolution received support from them. But, had the al
leged facts been established, evolutionists would have

256

JEt. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

differentiated in structure as those described, should
have been spontaneously generated, would have been at
variance with their doctrine; which implies that the earli
est living things must have been, if not absolutely struc
tureless, yet with no more structure than is implied by
some scarcely appreciable difference between outside and
inside. Moreover, it has all along been manifest to the
philosophic biologist, that no experiments which, in the
materials used, pre-suppose the existence of organic
matter, can throw any light on the genesis of organic
forms. While believing that such genesis originally took
place naturally, under conditions which no longer exist,
they find no evidence that it takes place now; and do not
believe that it is likely to take place now. And here, let
me add, we have an illustration of the truth that the veri
tably scientific man will not accept evidence which, though
plausible, is open to doubt; even when it supports an
hypothesis he accepts.

   Before the meeting was over, Professor Tyndall and I

departed for the lakes. Sunday morning found us ram
bling along the shore of Windermere on the way to Rydal
Mount. Thence we proceeded to Grasmere; and then,

after dining, took a boat to the base of Loughrigg. A

climb took us to the top and we descended to Amble
side. But a day's walking and talking with Tyndall, who

gets me into discussion, proved too much. A wretched

night, followed by the fear of more such days, prompted
a flight black to Town.

   And now the close of the year brought the completion
of the first volume of the developed Psychology. Com
menced at the end of 1867, this volume was published in

December 1870. Ill health must, I suppose, be debited

                  60 257

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-70

with a large part of the delay. Certainly the long time
taken over the work could not have arisen from any dis
taste for it. Contrariwise, several feelings united in mak

ing me enjoy the resumption of this topic which I had

dealt with in 1854-5.

   At that date, as already pointed out, an evolutionary
view of Mind was foreign to the ideas of the time, and

voted absurd : the result of setting it forth being pecuni
ary loss and a good deal of reprobation. Naturally, there
fore, after the publication of The Origin of Species had
caused the current of public opinion to set the other way,

a more sympathetic reception was to be counted upon
for the doctrine of mental evolution in its elaborated

form.

   Chief, however, was the pleasure of elaborating it--
giving completeness to the theory by building its out
works and filling up lacuna. Here, as before, recogni
tion of the fact that the Data and the Inductions had to be
set forth before proceeding to the work of construction,

led to interesting results. The general views contained

in these first and second divisions would never have been

reached had it not been for the inquiry -- What are the
main facts of structure and function which Biology hands
on to Psychology; and what are the general truths which

mental phenomena present, considered apart from any
theory respecting their origin? Then at the close of the
volume, in the division entitled " Physical Synthesis,"

there had to be set forth the theory named in the preface

to the first edition as being for several reasons withheld.
This was an interesting piece of work; and though it has

since been shown me that, under both its physical and

its physiological aspects, the theory, in the form there

258

/Et. 47-50] DEVELOPING THE PSYCHOLOGY

time to prove, the needful qualifications may be made
without invalidating the cardinal principle.

   I was about to say that the reception of the volume

must have been tepid, since it has left no recollection

whatever; but on looking through correspondence I

find a still better cause for the absence of all recollection.

A letter to my publisher, dated 19 December, says: --

    " The policy of not issuing copies for review, which we
adopted in the case of the second volume of the Biology,
and the second edition of First Principles, answers so well

that we will continue it. I find, on examining the accounts,

that since the adoption of this policy the sale of my books

has about doubled. I do not suppose that the absence of

misleading criticisms has had much to do with this ; though,

as I have learnt from their own lips, some readers have been

deterred for years from looking at my books by the erroneous
impressions of them they had gathered from reviews. But
this large increase of sale may, at any rate, be taken as
evidence that the course adopted is not detrimental.

   We will therefore establish it as a permanent rule. Do
not send out copies of this first volume of the Principles of
Psychology now published, to any of the periodicals--daily,

weekly, monthly or quarterly. And let whatever works I

publish hereafter be similarly withheld.
   Now, or in time to come, copies for review may occasion

ally be applied for. To meet such applications, please keep
this letter; and let a copy of it be sent by way of answer.
This will show that the refusal is not exceptional but

general."

   Subsequent resumption of the ordinary habit was not
due to any change of belief respecting the policy of this

course, but was due to a cause which I cannot here in

dicate without forestalling matters. It will become ap

                                                  259

       CHAPTER XLIV.

       FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY.

       1870--72. Mt. 50--52.

   With the ending of the first volume of the Psychology

and the beginning of the second, a new kind of mental

action was commenced. While the first volume, or, to

speak strictly, the constructive part of  it,synthetic,
                                              is
                                                         it
the second volume  is    analytic. The process of taking

to pieces our intellectual fabric and the products of its;

actions, until the ultimate components are reached, had

now to be undertaken and, among other things, had

to be shown that the structure of Mind, as ascertained in

this way, corresponds with its structure as ascertained

by tracing up its successive stages of development.

   Was this change an agreeable one?      think may
                                I
                                   I

                                            it

                                            II
                                                    I
say that was. Not, indeed, intrinsically, but simply
   it

as involving another form of intellectual activity. And

here, as being relevant to the question whether liked

best the synthetic or the analytic mode of thought,

may say something about my intellectual tendencies in

relation to the two. A few years ago saw remarked

that there appeared to be in me equal proclivities to

wards analysis and towards synthesis. Up to that time

I  had supposed myself to be alone in the recognition of

                           260

Sit. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

   It is a trait which will, I think, be manifest to any

one who looks into the evidence furnished by my books.
While, on the one hand, they betray a great liking for
drawing deductions and building them up into a co
herent whole; on the other hand, they betray a great
liking for examining the premises on which a set of de
ductions is raised, for the purpose of seeing what

assumptions are involved in them, and what are the
deeper truths into which such assumptions are resolv
able. There is shown an evident dissatisfaction with
proximate principles, and a restlessness until ultimate

principles have been reached; at the same time that there
is shown a desire to see how the most complex phe
nomena are to be interpreted as workings out of these

ultimate principles. It is, I think, to the balance of these

two tendencies that the character of the work done is

mainly ascribable.
   Much scope for further exercise of the analytic faculty

was not afforded by Part VI (Special Analysis). But
with arrival at Part VII (General Analysis) there came

the occasion for expanding and completing the concep
tion first briefly and crudely set forth in the " Universal
Postulate," published in 1853, and further developed in
the first edition of the Principles of Psychology in 1855.
To this division, and the divisions succeeding my lim
ited energies were chiefly devoted during the period cov

ered by this chapter.
             I

                                             is
                                                       a

                                                       iIt it,
Already have hinted that great change in the

routine of my life followed my election into the Athe

naeum Club; and what there to say about                         may as

well say here.

   My place of abode was, in several ways, desirable in

             261

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

position. Its proximity to Kensington Gardens made

more constant than it might else have been, a morning's
walk of half an hour before beginning work. Then

when, something like an hour after luncheon, came the
walk into Town, my route lay over grass and under

trees nearly all the way: through Kensington Gardens,

Hyde Park, and the Green Park ; so that I could reach

the Club without more than a quarter of a mile upon
pavement. Once at the Club, a miscellaneous process
of killing time commenced. Having already glanced

through The Times after breakfast, the news-room did

not detain me; save on Saturdays when some of the

weekly periodicals, not found in the other rooms, had
to be looked at. Commonly some little time was spent
in the drawing room in glancing through the contents
of the Monthly Magazines and Quarterly Reviews :

skipping most articles and dipping into a few. I rarely

read one through. Then came the new books, of which

the chief were obtained from Mudie for the convenience
of members who wished, some to read them and others

to see what they were about. I was usually one of the
latter class. Biographies, Histories, and the like, I

commonly passed over without opening them. Books

of travel had an attraction for me ; and I glanced through

them with an eye to materials for my work. Passages
telling me of the institutions, beliefs, characters, usages

&c. of the uncivilized, I not unfrequently copied. Of

course all works treating on this or the other branch
of Science, as well as those which dealt with phil
osophical questions, special or general, including those
on Theology, were looked into. To observe the current
of opinion was one motive ; and another motive was to

262

/Et. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

my own views, which I not unfrequently found objects of
attack. Novels were temptations to be resisted ; for I

dare not expend on them the needful amount of reading

power. Once in a year, perhaps, I treated myself to
one ; and then I had to get through it in a dozen or more

instalments.
   There was a further occupation which filled a con

siderable space. Playing billiards became " my custom

always of the afternoon." I found it a very desirable

way of passing the time : preventing thinking and ex
cluding the temptation to read. Those who confess to
billiard-playing commonly make some kind of excuse.
Change of occupation is needful, they say; or it is
alleged that the game entails a certain amount of bene
ficial exercise. It must not be supposed that the benefits

I have just named are similarly meant as excuses. It
suffices for me that I like billiards, and the attainment
of the pleasure given I regard as a sufficient motive. I

have for a long time deliberately set my face against
that asceticism which makes it an offence to do a thing
for the pleasure of doing it ; and have habitually con

tended that, so long as no injury is inflicted on others,

nor any ulterior injury on self, and so long as the various
duties of life have been discharged, the pursuit of pleas

ure for its own sake is perfectly legitimate and requires
no apology. The opposite view is nothing else than a
remote sequence of the old devil-worship of the bar
barian ; who sought to please his god by inflicting pains
on himself, and believed his god would be angry if he
made himself happy.

    Beyond these habitual occupations at the Club there
were chattings with my old friends, most of whom were

             263

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

newly made; for I am slow to make fresh friendships.
And then as the evening was approaching there was the

walk back to Queen's Gardens, bringing me there in
time for dinner at 7; which was followed by such mis
cellaneous ways of passing the time without excite
ment as were available. Thus passed my ordinary

days.

   The close of 1870, and the first four months of 1871,

furnish no incidents calling for mention. Such quotable

passages as occur in correspondence concern other per

sons in ways which make it undesirable to reproduce

them : one only excepted, which will come more con

veniently in a future chapter. The first letter from

which I may here fitly extract, is one dated nth May.

" It is also pleasant news to me that you are likely to come
over shortly. What time in June are you likely to come ? I

shall probably be away for a fortnight during the latter half

of June, but shall be in town during July. . .
   About a week ago, I received the French translation of

First Principles. It contains an introduction by Dr. Cazelles

which is admirably done, and is perfectly fitted to give the

uninitiated a general preliminary conception. It is just the
thing of which I have long felt the need ; and it could not

have been better supplied than by a sympathetic Frenchman.

A translation of it would be immensely serviceable ; but I
cannot well have it made here. I have ordered a copy from

Paris and will forward it to you as soon as it comes."

   Of the two foregoing paragraphs the first introduces
a matter of considerable general interest. At the time

it was written I did not know that which I soon after

wards learned --the motive of my American friend in

coming over. He was fertile in useful projects ; and the

264

<ET. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

pursuance of which English, American, French, Ger

man, and other authors, who undertook to write works

of a certain class, should, by agreement among the pub

lishers in their respective countries, have certain speci

fied rates of profit secured to them in all these countries.

I gladly did all that I was able in furtherance of his

scheme. One step taken was to give him a letter of in

troduction which should serve to facilitate his negotia

tions with authors and publishers over here. This it

will be not amiss to quote in full.

My dear Youmans,                     " 4 July, 1871.

I am desirous to do all that is possible to extend and

establish the arrangements you are making with English
authors -- arrangements which practically amount to interna

tional copyright.

Having for the last ten years benefited so greatly by the

arrangements you have made with the Appletons on my

behalf, which have put me on a footing as good as that of the

American author, I have the best possible reasons for think

ing that the interests of English authors will be subserved in

a very important degree by the success of the negociations

which you have come over here to carry out. Various of

my scientific friends, who have reaped pecuniary and other

advantages from the contracts you have made for them, will,

I am sure, coincide in this expression of opinion.

   From the conversation I had with Mr. Appleton when he

was here recently, it was manifest to me that he was anxious

to carry out in his relations with other English authors, the
same equitable system from which I, and some others, have

gained. And now that he has given you full powers to make

engagements in pursuance of this system, I think it very

desirable that all should co-operate. Standing so high as

the Appletons do, alike in respect to the character of the
works they publish and in the extent of their business, it

                   265

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

needs only to be known and understood by English authors
to be at once accepted by them.

   Pray make use of this letter in any way that will further
your negociations.

                                            Ever yours sincerely,

                                                        Herbert Spencer."

   The movement thus initiated was one which presently
issued in " The International Scientific Series," of which
more anon.

   I have said nothing of late concerning my social life
in these days, and now that I recur to the topic, I find

little to say.

  I suppose it has been more from inclination than from
principle that I have avoided acquaintanceships and cul

tivated only friendships. There is in me very little of

the besoin de parler; and hence I do not care to talk with
those in whom I feel no interest. Having neither pro

fessional interests to push, nor daughters to marry, and

not caring to show Mrs. Grundy how many people I
know, I have had no motive for multiplying social re
lations. I have thus avoided the weariness of " the so

cial treadmill." My circle, limited to those whose

natures are more or less attractive to me, has ever

yielded me pleasure, and brought to me quite as much

intercourse as I desired -- often too much, in fact.

   Of special incidents belonging to social life which

dwell in my memory two belong to this year. One of

them was a water-party on the anniversary of the mar

riage of Mr. Leslie Stephen to the younger Miss Thack
eray --a party including the elder Miss Thackeray (now
Mrs. Ritchie) whose nature, answering to her father's

estimate, sometimes expressed its amiabilities in amus

266

JEt. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

Some of the Huth family were of the party ; and also a
son and daughter of Sir William Grove. Thames Dit-

ton was our picnicing place ; and taking again to our

boats, which carried us to Hampton Court, we there of

course went the round of the galleries. Although I do

not remember              it,

                           I

                                        I
                                             I

                                                      I
                                                                            I
                          doubtless seized the occasion for

uttering heresies concerning Raphael's cartoons.

As, in foregoing chapters,                         have implied sundry

tastes and pursuits incongruous with the popular con

ception of the philosopher, shall not,                     suppose, sur
prise the reader by indicating another.
                                                           In October

went down for some pheasant shooting to Wykehurst
--an estate in Sussex not long before purchased by Mr.
Henry Huth, and on which few years later he built
                          I

                                a
                                                a
the palatial mansion now existing there. Save once, at

Ardtornish, when utterly failed in black-cock shoot

ing, had not taken gun in hand since was 18; and
I                                                          I

now, though was to my own extreme surprise, and
             I

to the surprise of others, very successful, the sport gave

me scarcely any pleasure. preferred hitting to missing,
                          II
and that was about all. suppose was that the battue
                                                   it, it
system, or whatever approaches to lacks the chief ele

ments of the sportsman's pleasure. Essentially this,

like the pleasures accompanying many other activities,

consists in justified self-estimation. Be in feat of
                                                   is
                                                           it
                                                                        a

                                                                               a
strength, or game of physical or mental skill, or wit
is
                       a
combat, the satisfaction of success caused by proved

adequacy to the occasion. Consciousness of efficiency

an accompaniment of every kind of achievement and,
                                                              ;

accompanying life-subserving activities of every kind,

has roots ramifying everywhere. Hence whatever im

plies efficiency becomes source of pleasure: directly
                          a

                          267

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

more complexly if known to others too. In such a
sport as cover-shooting with beaters, the efficiency is
simply that of hitting a moving mark--divested of all
those efficiencies which go along with the successful
pursuit of scattered birds in a wild state. Hence, ex
cept where there is a love of killing for its own sake, it
yields but little pleasure.

   In the early months of 1871, suddenly passed away my
admired and valued friend Mr. Octavius Smith. Though
of good age, he was constitutionally vigorous and might
have lived many years but for the results of an accident.
He exemplified the truth that where great physical

vigour and mental resource yield daily experience of
efficiency on all occasions there is apt to be generated an
excessive degree of courage. Many years before he had
suffered serious damage from incaution hence arising;
and now, or rather a few years years previously, an acci
dent to which the same trait led, left a slight invisible
injury which obviously originated the malady that

proved fatal. Among my friends of the preceding gen
eration his death made a great gap -- a gap impossible to

be filled up.
   The autumn of this year was passed in a miscellaneous

way. First came a short salmon-fishing expedition to
Inveroran. Thence, when the British Association met

about its usual date, I migrated to its place of meeting

-- Edinburgh. This time the prompting motive was not
that of being present during the presidency of one of
my friends. The motive was that of aiding Prof. You-

mans in his project mentioned above. Sundry steps
were taken which conduced to its success. Profs. Hux

268

Mt. 52-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

mittee to decide on books which should be admitted
into the series ; and whether, with this or that author,

an engagement should be made to write one. Sundry

members of the Association were canvassed with the

view of obtaining promises from them to contribute vol
umes connected with their special subjects : the purpose
being that each of such volumes should be one dealing
with some part of a science capable of being cut out
from the rest, and within the limits of which there had
been recent developments of importance. The consulta
tions and negotiations went on favourably, and by the

time that the meeting closed the scheme had taken

definite shape and organization.

   A house at St. Andrews had been taken by the Hux-

leys for the Autumn, and this led me to go over to an

hotel there for two or three days. Two things only I
remember -- the one that Huxley and I played together
a game of golf, the only game I ever played; the other

that, while sitting on the cliff watching some boys bath
ing, we marvelled over the fact, seeming especially

strange when they are no longer disguised by clothes,
that human beings should dominate over all other
creatures and play the wonderful part they do on the
Earth.

   On leaving St. Andrews I met, in pursuance of an
agreement made at Edinburgh, one whom I have not
hitherto named -- Dr. Hirst, a special friend of Prof.

Tyndall since their early days. Originally engaged on
the Ordnance Survey, they left it for the purpose of
going together to the University of Marburg; whence,
after taking their degrees, they went to Queenwood
College as professors ; and whence, afterwards, they

            269

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

as Faraday's assistant and presently his successor, and
Hirst to University College as Professor of Mathe
matics; which post he held until he became Deputy
Registrar of the University of London, on the way to his
ultimate position as the first Director of Studies at the

Royal Naval College, Greenwich.
   Our tour into the West Highlands proved in all re

spects a success. Days were passed at Oban, at Bal-
lachulish, and at Fort William : our stay at this last place
being varied by an exploration of Glen Nevis up to its

top, where it becomes Swiss-like in character. While

at Bannavie a dog-cart took us to Glen Roy, up which
we rambled to explore the parallel roads, and to dis

cuss the speculations respecting their origin. On our

return south, I remember only the sunny day which

gave beauty to our walk along the shore of Loch Linnhe
from Ballachulish to Appin. And then there came a
junction with our common friends the Busks, who had
again taken Aird's Bay House on Loch Etive.

   Two breaks in the routine of my ordinary work oc

curred soon after I resumed it. One of them was en

tailed by the scheme of my American friend, and the

other by a controversy upon which I had to enter.

   Arrangements for the proposed " International Sci

entific Series " had to be made in France ; and I agreed

to go with Youmans to Paris for the purpose of help
ing to establish them. He knew no French, and though
my French was scrambling enough, it sufficed to give
M. Bailliere the needful explanations, and to make it
manifest to him that it would be worth his while to be

come the French publisher for the Series. There was also

270

/Et. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

cide upon such works as Frenchmen might propose ;

and various other matters were put in train before he

went on to Germany and I returned home.
  While still in Paris I entered upon the piece of con

troversial writing which Fate had just then devolved

on me: Youmans volunteering as amanuensis. The

Fortnightly Review for   eNnotvitelemd be"rAd1m87i1nistcroantitvaeinedNihailn
article by Prof. Huxley

ism," in which, criticising a view of mine respecting the

limitation of State-functions, he put his objection in the

form of a question. I could scarcely avoid giving an

answer; for otherwise the implication would apparently

have been that the question was unanswerable. Com
menced, as above stated, in Paris, and completed after
my return to London, my reply appeared in the Decem
ber number of the Fortnightly, under the title of " Spe

cialized Administration."
   This passage of arms was carried on in a perfectly

amicable spirit, and left the relations between us undis

turbed.

Before the close of the year came two occurrences

of some interest, one of them leading to the other. The

first is explained in the following letter to the Principal

of St. Andrews.

Dear Dr. Tulloch,             "20th Novr. 1871.

Only on Friday night did I hear, and only on Saturday
morning did I see [in the Times'] that I had been nominated

for the office of Rector of St. Andrews.

I regret that some intimation was not given to me before

hand that such a step was contemplated ; because some trou

ble, and possibly some derangement of plans, might thus

                         271

        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY       [1870-72

on me a loss of time which, though not serious to most,

would be serious to me, with my very small amount of work

ing power. My progress with my work, slow enough at the

best, is interrupted much more frequently than I like ; and
I find myself compelled rigorously to negative such inter

ruptions as are not unavoidable. Though, in the position

which some of the St. Andrew's students wish me to occupy,

I might be of some little service, yet I think I can render

better service by devoting the same amount of energy to

executing the task before me.

In conveying to those who have put forward my name the

request that they will withdraw it from the list, will you be
kind enough also to say that I am much gratified by the

sympathetic appreciation implied by the course they have

taken.

                               Very truly yours,
                                            Herbert Spencer."

   I may add that the students, signifying their disap

pointment at the time, signified it afterwards still more
by again asking me in March of the next year : the pre
ceding election having proved invalid. But the reasons
given for declining upon the first occasion remained in

force, and I again declined.

   This incident in November initiated another before
the close of December. There came an intimation, con
veyed through Professor Flint, that the Senatus con
templated conferring upon me an honorary degree. As
my reply contains some general opinions respecting

honorary degrees, which I think it desirable to put on
record, I here give it in full.

Sir, "Deer. 1871.

  I cannot but be much gratified by the fact of which you

inform me -- that " the professors of the United College of

        272

Mi. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY,

Senatus of the University to confer upon " me " the Degree

of LL.D." The remembrance of this mark of their consid
eration will hereafter give me pleasure.

   Certain convictions which have been long growing up in

me, respecting the effects of honorary titles, will, however, I

fear, stand in the way of my acceptance of the degree which

the Professors kindly suggest should be conferred upon me.

I have come to the conclusion that such honorary titles, while

they seem to be encouragements to intellectual achievement,

do in reality, by their indirect influences, act as discour

agements.

   If, supposing due discrimination were possible, men of

much promise received from a learned body such marks of
distinction as would bespeak attention from the world at

large, I can well imagine that such men would be greatly

helped, and would oftentimes be saved from sinking in their
struggles with adverse circumstances in the midst of a

society prepossessed in favour of known men. But there
ordinarily comes no such aid until the difficulties have been
surmounted -- supposing, that is, that they have not proved
fatal.

   Probably it will be said that because honorary titles do

not commonly yield benefits so great as they might yield if

given earlier, it does not therefore follow that when given

they are otherwise than beneficial. I think, however, that
if, instead of considering their direct effects on those older

men who have received them, we consider their indirect

effects on those younger men who have not received them,

we shall see that to these they become, practically, an addi
tional obstacle to success. Always the impediments in the
way of one who, without authority, enters the field of intel
lectual activity, in competition with those having established
authorities, are sufficiently great. The probability that he
has nothing to say worth listening to, is so strong, that he
is almost certain to receive for a long time scarcely any
of the attention he may well deserve. But this unavoidable

                  61 273

                             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY              [1870-72

difficulty is made artificially greater when, bearing no stamp

of value, he has for competitors those who, to the advantages

of known achievements, add the advantage of officially-

stamped values. The larger reading world, and the narrower

critical world which leads are greatly biassed by whatever
it,
                                is

                                               a
                                              it,

                                                                           a

                                                            if
                                                                                  it

                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                     a
bespeaks respectful consideration. And           the presence of

an honorary title gives this positive advantage to one bearing
     its absence involves positive disadvantage to one not

bearing it.                  not one reached  priori; but        one

   This conclusion

that personal experiences have forced upon me. During
career of more than twenty years, most of which has been

passed in writing books that entailed on me successive losses,
   have had many opportunities of observing this artificial

aid given by honorary titles to those who least needed aid,
and the consequent artificial hindrance to those without titles
who most needed aid. And has come to be an established
belief with me that the advance of thought will be most
furthered, when the only honours to be acquired by authors
are those spontaneously yielded to them by public which
left to estimate their merits as well as can.
I
    It

                              a

                                               it
                                                               it

                                                                                         a

                                                             if

                                                                                                           is
would be source of much regret to me this response

to the sympathetic recognition which the Professors of St.

Andrew's imply by their proposed step, were interpreted as

undervaluing the feeling shown by them. But hope that
                                 it
what have said will make
                                                     II
                                                           I is
A                                  clear that my course          one
   I
determined by general principle, entirely without reference
                          :
to the particular circumstances."
                         a
   To save references to them in future chapters, may
add here that on various kindred occasions took the

like course assigning these and sundry other reasons

for declining.

letter of 8th Jan. 1872, saying " was better for
                                              I

                             274

/Et. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

the Christmas week of 1871 was spent in company with
my friends Busk and Allman in walking and driving

round the south coast from St. Helens to Yarmouth.
Of incidents during the season of 1872, the following ex

tracts from correspondence give some traces. The first

is dated 2nd Feb.

   " Haeckel's assistant, of whom he speaks highly, a Dr.
Vetter, has undertaken to translate First Principles, and

proposes afterwards to translate the Biology and the Psy
chology. It seems that Brockhaus hesitates about undertak

ing the publication ; but Haeckel speaks as though there will

be no difficulty in finding another publisher, if Brockhaus
should not shortly agree . . . We had an X dinner last

night at which Lowe was our guest. He takes an intelligent
interest in scientific matters."

Correspondence also recalls the fact that when over

here in 187 1, my American publisher, Mr. Appleton, had
asked me to sit for a portrait to be painted for him. As

he left me to choose the artist, I assented ; and some

progress was made during the Autumn.   A letter of
8th April 1872 says :--

" The portrait has been standing still up to the present

time. Since his return from Spain, Burgess has had scarlet
"...fever in his house.
                         I am going to day to give him a
sitting

  My reasons for fixing on Mr. J. B. Burgess, were

two. One was that he was not a professed portrait

painter: my impression being that he would feel more
interest, and take more pains, than an artist who had

made portrait painting his business. The other was
that he had shown a remarkable power of rendering

expression. A picture of his, entitled " Bravo Toro,"

                         275

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

representing spectators at a Spanish bull-fight, had
greatly struck me by its truthful and varied represen
tations of character and emotion. No picture by an

old master which I have seen or heard of, exhibits this

kind of success in anything like as great degree. His
artist friends told Mr. Burgess that success of this kind
was not to be aimed at -- was not an element in high art.
To me it seems, contrariwise, that such success is the

highest. I know a novelist, skilful in devising plots,

who holds that a good story is the thing, if not of sole
importance, still of chief importance, in fiction ; and who

accords small praise to characterization, and the delinea

tion of those lights and shades of thought and feeling
which give individuality: components that are, in fact,

the flowers to which the story is but the stem. I would
as soon believe him as I would believe these artists who

pooh-pooh the vivid pourtrayal of moral natures and
states of mind in the faces of the personages they rep

resent.

  " I have been away at Boulogne," says a letter of
June 12; and now that I meet with this sentence, I re

member that my old engineering friend, Loch, whose

name has for a long time disappeared from the record,

was staying there with his wife and family, and that to

join him was the motive for going. He and I renewed

our habit of early years, and took country rambles in

land and along the coast. One of them left a perma
nent impression. We passed a wayside shrine, at the
foot of which were numerous offerings, each formed of
two bits of lath nailed one across the other. The sight
suggested to me the behaviour of an intelligent and
amiable retriever, a great pet at Ardtornish. On com

276

JEt. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

wagging her tail and drawing back her lips so as to sim
ulate a grinning smile, she would seek around to find a
stick, or a bit of paper, or a dead leaf, and bring it in
her mouth : so expressing her desire to propitiate. The
dead leaf or bit of paper was symbolic, in much the same
way as was the valueless cross. Probably, in respect of
sincerity of feeling, the advantage was on the side of the

retriever.

  Though I had arranged to go abroad with friends for

my autumn holiday, yet my habit of visiting Scotland

annually was too strong to be resisted. The beginning

of August found me at Taynuilt, where I went for some

salmon fishing in the Awe. But the weather was dry,

the river low, the days bright, and after a week of dis

appointments I returned.

   An excursion to Switzerland with Mr. and Mrs. Busk

and their daughters shortly followed. After brief pauses
at Cologne, Heidelberg, and Berne, we made our way

to Miirren, where a week or perhaps more was spent in
face of the Jungfrau and the Silberhorn. No more on

this occasion than on the first, did I find Switzerland
physically beneficial. On neither occasion did I expe

rience the invigoration which many feel ; and Miirren

was positively enervating.

   There is much yet to be learnt respecting the effects

of atmospheric conditions. It seems to me that it is
with these as, according to a physician I quoted some

distance back, it is with drugs: cases prove that under

different conditions they may produce opposite effects.

Certainly, the air of great altitudes, which is exhilarating

to some, is depressing to others. I was not alone in

             277

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1870-72

nished clear proofs of enfeeblement. Evidently that
state of exhaustion which the rarified air of very high
mountains causes in all, begins to be felt by a few on
lower mountains. The decrease of atmospheric pressure

accompanying an ascent of 6000 feet, produces on the

respiratory process effects which, not manifest in some
are conspicuous in others. May it not be that two
factors which come into play, work, by their joint
actions, diverse results in diverse constitutions? Dimin

ished atmospheric pressure causes augmented exhala
tion from the skin and lungs: water turns into vapour
more rapidly. One of the consequences is that the cur
rents of liquids through the tissues are accelerated ;
change of matter is furthered ; and exaltation of energy

results. At the same time the charge of oxygen which

the blood contains is lessened, and greater action of the

lungs is required to compensate for this. If the lungs

are well developed, a small amount of extra activity

enables them to meet the requirement, and then the
benefit of a more rapid evaporation of water is felt. If,
contrariwise, the respiratory system is below par, then

more is lost by decreased oxygenation than is gained by

increased evaporation.
   While the heights of Switzerland were not favourable

to me, neither were the depths. Our descent to Grindel-
wald was not followed by any improvement, but rather
the contrary. After a few days it became evident that

I must escape into the open country. Bidding good-bye
to my friends, I made my way to Vevay ; and after a few

days at St. Evian les Bains, and a few others at Geneva,

I reached home a week before the end of September.

Not long after my return was published Mr. Darwin's

                                              278

JEt. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

work on The Expression of the Emotions. As my ac
knowledgment of the copy he was good enough to send

me contains some expressions of opinion concerning a

point on which we differed, it may be not amiss to quote

it here.              somewhat            " Nov. 16th, 1872.
                                longer than I intended, ac
Dear Darwin,
     I have delayed,

knowledging the copy of your new volume, which you have

been kind enough to send me. I delayed partly in the hope

of being able to read more of it before writing to you ; but

my reading powers are so small, and they are at present so

much employed in getting up materials for work in hand,

that I have been unable to get on far with it. I have, how

ever, read quite enough to see what an immense mass of

evidence you have brought to bear in proof of your propo

sitions.

   I will comment only on one point on which I see you differ

from me; namely the explanation of musical expression, in

respect of which you quote Mr. Litchfield. I think if you

would trace up the genesis of melody, beginning with the

cadences of slightly emotional speech and passing through

recitative, you would see that melody is quite comprehensible

on the principles I have pointed out. The fact that melody

proper, has been evolved in comparatively recent times, is

strong evidence of this. That recitative is a natural expres

sion of emotion is abundantly proved. I remember having

read of Australians who used a kind of recitative in talking

to themselves when walking along, about things that in

terested them ; and I have heard children, when engaged in

any play that interested them, or such occupations as gather

ing flowers, talk to themselves in recitative. Join this with
the fact that many inferior races have never risen above

recitative (as the Chinese and Hindoos) and that there is
reason for believing that even among the Greeks, melody had

                      279

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                      [1870-72

add, too, the fact that even now in the Highlands you may

hear Gaelic songs that retain very much of the recitative

character ; and I think you will see that melody
                                                      is            as have

contended, an idealized form of the natural cadences of      iIs, is,
                                                                     II
emotion. Indeed could point out musical phrases which
I
   I

             I
would, think, clearly prove this to you. Ask your daughter
to play to you " Robert toi que j'aime," and you will think

see this.   do not mean to say that this all; for there are

other elements of effect in melody. But this                        think, the

cardinal element.

                                                 Yours very truly,

                                                      Herbert Spencer."

      have long intended to add to the essay on the Origin
and Function Music, postscript dealing with objec
tions its chief purposes being, first, to dissipate the
misapprehensions of Mr. Edmund Gurney, and second,
to criticize the hypothesis of Mr. Darwin. But do
not suppose that shall now ever be able to fulfil my
intention.
I                                                                        I
                                                                             I
           :

                    of

                   I
                                          a

   Shortly before the date of the above letter (which
have transposed for convenience) came the completion

and publication of the volume to which this chapter owes

its title.  have not very much to say concerning it.
a

            I

                      is
                          a
                                              §
   Beyond the verbal improvements made on nearly all

the pages throughout part VI, " Special Analysis," not

many changes were made. Only one of them calls for

mention here, namely, the enunciation of the paradox

that Logic         science of objective phenomena, and not

science of subjective phenomena, as hitherto assumed.

The proof as given in 302, still appears to me con
clusive. Save one writer in Mind, who expressed his

                                                                    it,
surprise that no attention had been given to every

                                                 280

Mt. 50-52]  FINISHING THE PSYCHOLOGY

doctrine without remark. It should, I think, be either

disproved or admitted; for clearly the issues involved

are of some philosophical importance. Does not one

of them touch fundamentally the entire system of

Hegel? I express the thought interrogatively, because

I know so little of the Hegelian philosophy. My im

pression is that it sets out with a proposition impos

sible to conceive. If this proceeding is legitimate, it is

no less legitimate to make each step in the reasoning
that follows, of like nature ; and to assert that though a

particular conclusion appears necessary, and the oppo

site conclusion impossible to conceive, yet the opposite

conclusion is true. As this course, actual and potential,

is one against which I feel an obstinate prejudice, I

never read further any work in which it is displayed.

But I wish some one would put the proposition that
Logic is an objective science, side by side with the

Hegelian philosophy, and see whether the two can

co-exist.

  Concerning Part VII, I may here remark that the

elaboration of it illustrated in an extreme degree a habit

of thought which I have before described. The germ

was contained in the essay on the " Universal Postu

late," published in the Westminister Review for October
1853. In the first edition of The Principles of Psychology,
this essay grew into four chapters ; and now, in the sec

ond edition, its thoughts had so developed in various

ways that nineteen chapters were required properly to
set them forth. How to arrange these chapters long re

mained a perplexity. For some two or three years, I
think, I occasionally thought over the general argument

in my morning walks or at other times, and tried to find

            281

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  I1870-72

after this long period did they slowly gravitate into their
respective places, and form a coherent whole.

   How happened it that the volume was so long in hand :
commenced, as it was, in 1870, and not completed till

October 1872? I find in correspondence various refer

ences to ill-health -- being obliged to work only at " half-
speed," or to be " very careful of my head." While the
delays hence arising partly account for the long time
taken, it is also in part accounted for by the fact that
the work was interrupted by the execution of other
work presently to be mentioned. But I was nearly for
getting a further cause. The volume ended with an

additional part (Part IX " Corollaries "). Psychology

underlies Sociology ; and there had to be specified a
number of those more special truths in Psychology
which have to be handed on to Sociology as part of its
data. The deduction of these special truths from the

general truths set forth in the preceding parts of the

282

       CHAPTER XLV.

       AN EXTRA BOOK.

       1872--73. Mt. 52--53.

Another overlap in the narrative, like two already

made, has to be made here. Without causing some con

fusion, I could not, until now, give any account of work

which was undertaken before the second volume of the

Psychology was finished ; and which, as lately implied,

was one cause of its long-postponed publication. Going

back some six months, I must here say something about

an extra book then commenced.
   " Why an extra book ?" thinks the reader. " Surely

the remaining volumes of the Synthetic Philosophy

formed a sufficiently large task, and to attempt more was

unwise, if not, indeed, absurd." This reflection is per

fectly just, and I have nothing to say in mitigation of
censure save that, though very reluctant, I was in a man

ner forced to commit myself to this extra book.

I have already described the scheme of Prof. Youmans
       resulted in " The International                      "
which                                   Scientific  Series      ;

and I have noted some efforts I made in aid of it. In

the course of his negotiations with one or other author,

he urged me to contribute a volume to the series. I
felt, as the reader above imagined feels, that I had quite

enough on my hands, and for some time resisted the

       283

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1872-73

der great obligations to him for all that he had done on

my behalf in America, I could not utter that decided
" No " which I should have uttered to any one else.
Eventually I yielded ; not, however, without making such
modification of the engagement as would, I thought,

enable me to do what was asked without seriously re
tarding more important work. It occurred to me that

I might obtain a fit collaborates, who should give literary
form to the ideas with which I furnished him. It was

a wild notion, to be excused only by the pressure and

hurry which prevented deliberation. Had I reflected, I

should have seen that no one could be found who would

prove adequately subordinate at the same time that he

had sufficient vigour of thought and style to satisfy me.
During the time in which this idea was entertained, Mr.
C. E. Appleton, founder and editor of The Academy,
came to me proposing himself as joint author; and it

was his proposal more than anything else which opened

my eyes to the impracticability of the scheme. I fore

saw that we should disagree and part over the first chap
ter; and it became clear that neither anyone else's ver
sion of my thoughts nor anyone else's expression of

them would satisfy me.

   Very shortly, therefore, the notion of collaboration

was abandoned, and I undertook to do the entire work

myself.

   Before he left England my American friend volun

teered to arrange for the carrying out of a suggestion

Iwhich had arisen, do not remember how, that the suc

cessive chapters of The Study of Sociology -- the extra
book in question -- should be first published serially, in

284

/Et. 52-53]     AN EXTRA BOOK

temporary Review, then owned by Mr. Strahan and edited

by Mr. Knowles, was the contemplated medium ; and a

fit medium in the United States, Prof. Youmans pro

posed to negotiate with as soon as possible after his

return. With this explanation the meanings of the fol

lowing extracts from correspondence will be clear. The

first is dated  8th Jany. 1872.      you left, arranged  with

" I have, as    I proposed before

Knowles for publication of the Study of Sociology in the
Contemporary, in successive instalments. He, and the pub

lisher, Strahan, express themselves as rejoicing to make the
                ...No difficulty appears to arise respecting the
arrangement.    publication in America.       I was the
simultaneous

better for my excursion to the Isle of Wight, but am not

well, and am obliged to be careful as to work."

   I may remark in passing, that the last sentence gives
me the date of an excursion which otherwise I should
have been puzzled to fix-- an excursion made, partly

driving partly walking, in company with Huxley, Tyn-

dall, and Hooker, round the south of the Island and then

from Freshwater across the hills to Newport. The next

letter which    I extract from  is dated 16 February, 1872.
                                32 of my Serial, and am about
" I have just   completed No.

to commence the first chapter for the Contemporary. It

will appear on the 1st April. . . .

   The successive chapters will be in great measure inde

pendent, and will be popular both in manner and matter. I
find that I have got a large amount of interesting and piquant

illustration that can be worked up in them."

And now there arose an unlooked-for result from the

understanding that had been made for simultaneous pub

lication in America. Negotiations which Youmans had

carried on with one or other periodical in the United

                                285

                          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                        [1872-73

ter had been put in type, neither he nor I saw how our

plan was to be carried out. When the proof of this

first chapter reached him it caused prompt and surpris

ing action, as witness the following extract from a letter
of his dated April 3, 1872: --

" A thousand thanks for your favour of March 13th, with
article on Study of Sociology enclosed. I was beginning to

be worried about            and was on the point of telegraphing
                          it, it,

                                  II
you to telegraph me as to what you would do. You did

wisely in sending           and decided upon our course in ten

minutes after getting it.             determined to have monthly
                                                           a

                                                                 I
at once, and in time to open with this article . . .                   re

ceived your article less than week ago. We have started
                                      a

it a  monthly of 128 pages. The first part of  it       now printing;
                                                   is

    the last pages will be closed up tomorrow, and we will have
       out in few days more. Of course we had to go in on
            a

    selected articles here. With yours for original, and trans
                                           a
lation by my sister from the French,                              a

                                                                    a
                                               short article by

myself, and fragments by my brother, we shall make very
fair show. . . . Nothing happens as expected, but often

the unexpected            best.  am utterly glad that things have
            I
                                                           medium of
                     is

                            I

                                       I

                                        I
taken the course they have.                have wanted  a

speech that can control, and now shall have it."

      The magazine thus suddenly started was The Popular

Science Monthly; which, under the editorship of my

friend, has had prosperous career and done very goodis

work. His brother, Dr. W. Youmans, for many yearsa
                                      J.

                                              is

                                                                  :

                                                           I
                                                                                    is
his assistant,            now the Editor. The next extract

from letter of mine dated 29th April --
is
         a" Thanks for the cheque, which ample.         had intended,

before receiving to write and ask whether this magazine
                   a
      pecuniarily      it,speculation of your own; or whether the

Appletons run the risk. If                 your own, then propose
                                      it
                                          is

                                                               I

                                      286

                              AN EXTRA BOOK

   It turned out, however, that the magazine was to be

the property of the Appletons. I consequently accepted

the cheque, and continued to receive payments from
America equal to those which publication here
brought me.

   A digression, within the digression constituted by the

Study of Sociology, occurred after the issue of some chap

ters. I then wrote, and published in the Contemporary,

an article entitled " Mr. Martineau on Evolution," which
was called forth by some strictures of his made in a lec
ture uttered and printed not long before. A reference

to it had, I see, been made in a letter to Youmans on 8th

April 1872.

   " Martineau has published in the Contemporary that essay
of which you sent me a report. Its concessions are large,
and its criticisms feeble. It illustrates what continually hap

pens with all parties who stand by the old. If they do
nothing, things go against them ; if they stir, things go

against them still more."

   As is implied by this extract, the attack did not seem

to me to call for any notice. Afterwards, however, I was

prompted to reply. Mr. Knowles is well known for his
editorial tact, and it did not in this case fail him. In the
course of an after-dinner conversation at Prof. Huxley's,
Mr. Martineau's criticisms were referred to, and a re
mark made by Mr. Knowles :-- " The general opinion is
that you gentlemen are getting the worst of it,"-- served

its purpose effectually. I forthwith took up Mr. Mar

tineau's gauntlet and suspended other work for an
interval.

    The refutation of his arguments was an easy task.

                                                   287

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  (1872-73

-- logic, metaphysics, and psychology, -- his compe
tence was undoubted ; but his knowledge of molecular
physics, chemistry, and biology, was not such as fitted
him for dealing with the general question of Evolution,

and he had consequently laid himself open in fatal ways.

   The absence of a rejoinder from him was, I believe,

caused by an illness from which he did not recover till

the matter had drifted by. Otherwise I dare say he would
have attempted a defence. A capable man can always find

something to say; and the majority of readers, never
referring back to see whether the main points have been
dealt with, accept what he says as adequate. " Oh, that
has been answered," is the subsequent remark ; and

the answer is assumed to be, as a matter of course, a suf

ficient answer.

    Such small incidents as the remainder of 1872 brought,

have been already narrated in the last chapter, which this

chapter in part overlaps. There do not occur in letters

any passages worth quoting until the beginning of 1873.
The first of them, dated 8th February, runs thus :--

   " It turns out to have been in all respects a lucky thing
that I yielded to your pressure, and undertook to write this

Study of Sociology. The successive chapters in the Con
temporary are having a great effect on the sale of my books.

Strange to say, I am getting quite popular with women."

The second of them bears date the 7th March, and is

as follows: --
   " Tyndall was saying last night at the X that religious

liberality is now greater here than with you. And many
facts imply it. While, as you tell me, your papers are shrink
ing from saying anything about the chapter on the Educa

tional Bias, here it has met with more open approval than

288

JEt. 52-53]  AN EXTRA BOOK

theological thaw, you will find in the copy of the Noncon

formist I send by this post, or the next. In a review of a late
metaphysical book -- Graham's Idealism --you will find a pas

sage expressing sympathy with the doctrine of the Unknow

able, as probably the theology of the future.  Think of that
for the leading organ of the Dissenters ! "

   Doubtless the theological liberalization was then, and
is still, progressing at an unexpected rate; but it is ac

companied by great energy and activity in upholding and
propagating the old beliefs. Though in many circles it

is now possible to say, without producing great astonish

ment, all that one thinks, I hear of other circles in which

the reactionary feeling is carried so far that even ordi

nary liberality is inadmissible. I do not regret this. The
change is quite as rapid as is desirable -- perhaps even

more rapid than is safe.

   Another two months brought me a serious deprivation.
An intimacy which had, within a few preceding years, be

come well established, and from which I expected pleas

ure and profit during years to come, was suddenly
brought to an end. On May 10, 1873, there came from

Avignon the news of the death of John Stuart Mill the
day before. Erysipelas, consequent apparently upon a
little over-exertion and exposure, carried him off quite
suddenly, while yet he was still active in body and

mind.

   During a considerable period his had been the one con
spicuous figure in the higher regions of thought. So
great, indeed, was his influence that during the interval
between, say 1840 and 1860, few dared to call his views
in question. Beyond the intrinsic causes for this pre
dominance there were two extrinsic causes. The time

                 62 289

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  I1872-73

 was one in which the deductive method had fallen into

 such disrepute, that in the concrete sciences nothing be
 yond the accumulation and colligation of facts was tol
 erated. Hence the System of Logic, which, though it did

 not ignore deductive reasoning, was mainly occupied
 with the methods of inductive reasoning, served as an

 authoritative embodiment and justification of the beliefs

 and practices of most cultivated men. The time was also
 one in which the Free-trade agitation had imparted to

 politico-economical discussions an interest much greater
 than they ever had before. This, of course, gave to his

 work on Political Economy, which furnished weapons

 to the Free-traders, an unusual currency. A yet further

 cause possibly was that the Experiential Philosophy, of

 which he was the leading exponent, did not, at that time,
 meet with much criticism from the Transcendentalists,

 who have since become active antagonists.

   To the extent of attending some meetings, I had taken

 a small part in his election as Member of Parliament for
 Westminster: being desirous that his views should find

 expression in the House of Commons. There was, I

 suspect, on my part and on the part of others, too high
an expectation of the results. One who has produced by

his books a strong impersonal impression rarely produces

 a personal impression to correspond. The faculties which
 have caused his superiority as a writer are not, in all
 cases, accompanied by the faculties which give supe
 riority in personal intercourse or in debate; and this is

 especially the case when he has to address those with

 whom he is so little in sympathy as Mill was with the

 humdrum rank and file of our legislators. When, on a

 subsequent election, he lost his seat, I happened, while

290

^Et. 52-53]  AN EXTRA BOOK

lief that on the whole he was better out of the House of

Commons than in it ; and he replied that he was inclined
to think so himself.

   Had he lived longer there would doubtless have been,
beyond further writings of importance, further efforts to
advance social welfare; for Mill was not content to do
this by word only: he sought to do it by deed also. I
wish some one would compare him as a typical utilitarian
with Carlyle as a typical anti-utilitarian. As measured,

alike by his domestic relations and his public activities,
the utilitarian would have much the best of the com

parison; and his conduct as husband and citizen would

constitute a sarcastic comment on his competitor's de

nunciations of his ethical creed.

   In a letter to Youmans, dated 16th May, I find the
passage: -- " In a day or two I shall send you a copy of

the Examiner, in which, along with other accounts of
John Mill's life and works, you will see something from
me." In Appendix G, I have resuscitated this long-

 buried sketch.

  If not about this time, then a year or two earlier, I was

compelled to restrict the hindrances to work caused by

correspondence. To do this I drew up a circular which
I had lithographed, and copies of which I used in as many

cases as possible. It ran as follows: --
   " Mr. Herbert Spencer regrets that he must take measures

for diminishing the amount of his correspondence.
   Being prevented by his state of health from writing more

than a short time daily, he progresses but slowly with the

work he has undertaken, and his progress is made slower

by absorption of his time in answering those who write to

him. Letters inviting him to join Committees, to attend

             291

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                            [1872-73

requesting interviews and autographs; letters asking opin
ions and explanations-- these, together with acknowledg

ments of presentation copies of books, entail hindrances
which, though trivial individually, are collectively serious --

serious, at least, to one whose hours of work are so narrowly

limited.

As these hindrances increase Mr. Spencer is compelled to

do something to prevent them. After long hesitation he

has decided to cut himself off from every engagement that is

likely to occupy attention, however slight, and to decline all

correspondence not involved by his immediate work.

To explain the absence of a special reply to each com

munication, he sends this lithographed general reply, and he

hopes that the reasons given will sufficiently excuse him for

not answering in a more direct way the letter of Mr.  ."

   The mention of correspondence which had to be thus
abridged, reminds me that from time to time I received
letters of startling kinds -- now vituperating me for my

opinions and now going to extremes of laudation. A few

have been astonishing, and even amusing, as exhibitions

of vanity. One of these seems worth reproducing here.

I suppress not the name only, but the place and date,

lest the writer should be identified.
   " Dear Sir, -- As the head of my own school of thought and

effort, I take the liberty of forwarding you for publication

or any other use you think desirable, three copies of a paper

read by myself before the Philosophical Society here on the
I I th inst. You will see its nature by its title: " The Theory
of Gravitation ", " The Neb. Hypothesis ", the " Tidal theory
of Evolution and the Dynamics of Elliptic motion," all stand

disproved.

   The apparatus was too cumbersome to forward, but I

think there will be no difficulty in constructing another :
should you consider that I should be at the expense myself,

          292

&t- 52-53]  AN EXTRA BOOK

you to      but I do not think you will consider ref

erences necessary.

   I am not by any means monied; a few hundreds, (some

six or so) recently inherited, being the sum of my posses

sions. Between an inebriate father, and dyspepsia, and

neglect, and want of opportunities at home, plus hard work,

poverty, religious and sexual troubles out here, my life has

not been altogether sunshine.

  I am now an atheist of a fairly contented mind, but

resolved, (for no selfish reasons) that for every inch I have
been thrust down, I will go up a mile.

  I am only fairly read, but have a good grasp of the

Universe that is daily improving. I have also a pretty good
knowledge of the world; and having seen some vicissitudes

and mixed with some variety of men, and foreigners, and

travellers, though comparatively untravelled myself, I have
few prejudices and an enlarged understanding. I must ask

your pardon for thus introducing myself, but I know you will
grant it when I tell you that I have labored most diligently

these last four or five years entirely with the object of
benefiting my fellow-man -- though the practical turns one

sometimes takes, make one feel as if laboring for an unde

serving and unworthy being

   In my endeavours to win for myself a name, I have made

sallies into military, political (have written a little) and other
matters where I thought my powers of origination would
Iserve me.
            believe if I had means and appliances I could

bring aerial navigation and one or two useful inventions to

useful issue. I have been a hard thinker for seven or eight
years, and have not been young since 16 years of age,--
when I became dyspeptic.

  I suppose if the Theory of Gravitation falls, some theo

logians will again plead for direct divine interference : their

day is drawing to a close.

  One object I had in view in making the investigation, was

            293

         AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY            [1872-73

used against myself in religious controversy, that the great

est scientist that ever was or ever would be, was a Christian !

The hammer of the Iconoclast     has fallen, and behold  their
                                 Newton " ought to be    wor
fetish ! I was once told that

shipped as a fetish " !

   I will trespass on you no longer, but hoping you will derive

pleasure and our cause will benefit by my work, and that I

am not but asking an agreeable favor of you in entrusting
my paper to your hands and pilotage, -- Believe me, a worker

for truth, and yours sincerely,  ."

Perhaps it will be thought that the writer was insane;

but the photograph which he inclosed betrayed no mark

of insanity, technically so called. He was insane only as

being swayed by an enormously disproportionate self-

esteem.

   There needs a local meteorology which shall take ac
count not only of the modifying effects which the surface

of each considerable area produces on the weather, but

also of the modifying effects produced by adjacent sur
faces. The climate of a region is in no small degree de
termined by its position in relation to regions around,

unlike in character. A striking illustration occurs in

Strath Spey. Between it and the western seas lies a
mountainous tract some 50 miles wide; and, coming over
its chilly high lands, which form good condensers, the
westerly winds deposit much of their contained water.
Hence, when they reach Strath Spey, which is a broad
open space, they have comparatively little water to de
posit, and cease to send down rain. It results that there
the westerly winds are not rainy winds, and the climate

is comparatively dry.

   Why do I make this remark here? Well, the reason

         294

  Mr. 52-53]        AN EXTRA BOOK

  with Strath Spey, and heard of its peculiarity. The

  daughters of my friend Potter, all of whom I had seen

  grow up from infancy, were now, several of them, mothers

  of families. The eldest had married Mr. Robert Holt of

  Liverpool, who rented the Dell of Abernethy and the

                                         it,

                                                                       I
  extensive moor appended to             which includes Cairn

  Gorm, one of the four peaks of the Grampians. Here

had been invited to visit them: one of the offered tempta

tions being that the Spey, which borders part of the

estate, affords good salmon-fishing. To fix the dates of

my several visits, respecting which was uncertain, Mrs.
                                         I

                                                                               :
  Holt has furnished me with some entries from their
  record of which here one dated 2nd August --
    ;

                                a

                                is
  " Mr. Spencer, Mr. Potter, and Robert, went to Advie by

  early train and after pleasant, cloudy but fine day, returned

  with seven salmon and grilse."

  Another entry, dated the 6th, has little more interest.
                                         a

  Some or 10 miles from the Dell there      is     loch con
    8                                           a
                 a
taining an island on which exist the ruins of castle, saida
to have been one of the strongholds of " The Wolf of
Badenoch "-- name with which my acquaintance, now

made, served me in future years as illustrating the gene                          :
sis of certain superstitions. The entry referred to runs --

   " Drove over in two carriages to Loch an Eilan. Mr.

  Spencer, Kate, and Robert went by train to Aviemore and

  walked thence. The Martineaus joined us at lunch."

Ia   For the recovery of his health Mr. Martineau had taken
     house near Aviemore, where he has since spent his
  summers. The recent passage of arms between us did

  not interfere with friendly intercourse during our picnic.

        had never seen anything of the East coast, and de

  cided to return south by that route. A day was spent

                                    295

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1872-73

surroundings. Thence I journeyed to Inveroran, where I

followed my usual occupation for a short time only, as

the dates imply; for I was in London again early in

September.

   Before I had got two-thirds through The Study of
Sociology, I became conscious that, for more reasons than
the one above named, it was well that I had undertaken

to write it.

   One reason of undeniable validity was that the accumu
lation of materials for the Principles of Sociology, which
I was carrying on by proxy, though it had been progress
ing for four years, was not yet advanced far enough to
meet with my requirements; and it became clear that a
delay of a year and a half or so, before entering on this
larger undertaking, would give me a better equipment.

   Another reason disclosed itself. Sundry general con

siderations touching Sociology which I had seen would

be needful as preliminaries to a scientific discussion,
and which yet could not be included in the Principles of
Sociology, or if prefixed would make it too voluminous,
could now be treated of with advantage. There was fur
nished for them a fit place in the Study of Sociology,
which stood in some sort as an introduction.

   A further reason was that but few persons had any

conception of a Social Science ; and that the diffusion of
such a conception would usefully precede the publication
of the Principles. The possibility of Sociology was not

only not conceived by historians, but when alleged was
denied. Occupied as they had all along been in narrat
ing the events in the lives of societies, they had paid little
or no attention to the evolution of their organizations.

296

Ex. 52-53]         AN EXTRA BOOK

life did not admit of scientific prevision, therefore said

that there is no science of Man, ignoring all the phenom

ena of bodily formation and function; he would parallel

the ordinary historian who, thinking of little else but the

doings of kings, court-intrigues, international quarrels,

victories and defeats, concerning all which no definite

forecasts are possible, asserts that there is no social

science: overlooking the mutually-dependent structures

which have been quietly unfolding while the transactions

he writes about have been taking place. The mere fact

that during all these centuries he, in common with his

readers, has been in nearly every case unconscious of

that increasing division of labour which characterizes so

cial evolution everywhere, shows how much need there

was to explain the scope and nature of the social science.

   A still more cogent reason presently became manifest

to me. While describing and illustrating the various

forms of bias which a student of Sociology must guard
Iagainst,
            became conscious that I myself needed the

warnings I was giving. The result was that, while re
taining my social ideals, I gained a greater readiness to

recognize the relative goodness of forms which have

passed away, and a greater preparedness for looking at

the various factors of social development in an unpreju

diced manner. Without losing my aversion to certain

barbaric institutions, sentiments, and beliefs, considered

in the abstract, I became more impressed with the neces

sity of contemplating them calmly, as having been in

their times and places the best that were possible, and

as unavoidably to be passed through in the course of

social evolution.

The last chapter of The Study of Sociology was pub

                                              297

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1872-73

lished in the Contemporary on the 1st October, and the

volume was issued on the 1st November. Respecting

its reception I remember nothing; and all I find in cor

respondence about it is the second paragraph of the fol

lowing extract from a letter dated 2nd December,

 1873:-
" Mr. Gladstone, a little nettled, I suppose, by my criti

cism upon him as a type of the anti-scientific public, has
published an explanatory letter in this month's Contem

porary. I am appending his letter to the end of the vol
ume, with some comments. I will send you a proof in a few

days.

    Inclosed is a notice of the Study from this week's Saturday

Review, quite sympathetic in tone. If the reviewer is right,

you will see that you have a good deal to answer for in
tempting me to misemploy my time ! However, I think the
book is desirable, as preparing the way for what is to come.
Moreover, had it not been for the large returns it has
brought me, I should have been unable to go on with the

Descriptive Sociology."

    The closing sentence of this extract prompts me to
remark that The Study of Sociology has been, pecuniarily
considered, unusually successful for a book of its kind.
When, to the sums received from England and America
for the separate chapters as they appeared serially, there
are added the sums since received as royalties on the
successive editions of the volume, the amount reaches
between £1300 and £1400; and, as editions are still called

for with tolerable regularity, I suppose the total will
eventually be £1500 or more. For a five-shilling book

on a grave subject, such a result was hardly to be ex

pected. A further amount, indirectly accruing, has to be

named. As already intimated, the publication of the chap

298

/Et. 52-53]  AN EXTRA BOOK

mand for my books; and the increased demand proved
to be a permanent one.

   Referring back to the first paragraph of the above

extract, I may say here that this brief controversy be

tween Mr. Gladstone and myself led to a private corre

spondence which ended quite amicably, and established

             299

                     CHAPTER XLVI.

                       SOME MINOR INCIDENTS.

                                 1873. 2Et. 53.

    Essays from time to time published after the issue
of the second series of Essays in 1864, had now become
sufficiently numerous to fill another volume. Written,
like preceding ones, not about matters of temporary in
terest, and originally designed to have eventually a per

manent form, these essays I now decided to re-publish.

Not unfrequently one who thus reproduces articles con

tributed to periodicals is reprobated; but I suppose that

in my case sufficient justification has been yielded by the
demand for successive editions of this volume, as of the
preceding volumes.

   Partly because I wished to include it in this third series

of essays, and partly because the interval between the
ending of the Study of Sociology and the commencement
of the Principles of Sociology afforded a convenient oppor

tunity, I devoted myself, after my return to town, to an
episodic work which I had long contemplated. This was

a piece of polemical writing, which, after so many years
occupied almost exclusively in producing books of a

purely expository kind, I entered upon with some zest.

As the reader has probably already inferred, argumen
tative contests are not wholly disagreeable to me.

   Since the publication of First Principles in 1862, nu

                                                  300

/E-r. 53]  SOME MINOR INCIDENTS

merous criticisms of that work and of subsequent works

had from time to time appeared: most of them not worthy
of notice; either because of their triviality or because
they were anonymous or by writers of no mark. But
there had been some which asked attention; either be

cause of their seeming validity or because they came
from men of acknowledged weight --the Rev. H. L. Man-
sel (afterwards Dean of St. Paul's), Principal Caird, the
Rev. James Martineau, Mr. H. Sidgwick, Mr. Shadworth

Hodgson. The objections raised by these I undertook
to answer ; and I published the answers in the November

and December numbers of the Fortnightly Review under
the title of " Replies to Criticisms".

   This article, or rather these two articles, had an unex

pected sequence, which entailed on me much trouble and

some annoyance. Before they were out of hand there

appeared two lengthy criticisms upon First Principles
and other books of mine -- one in the Quarterly Review
and the other in the British Quarterly Review. The first
of these, though partly dissentient, was civil in manner
and not unappreciative ; but the second, making much of

some small flaws which did not in the least affect the gen
eral conclusions, was written with evident animosity and
in an intemperate manner. Under ordinary circum

stances I should have let both pass without remark; but,
as I was then publishing replies to criticisms, I could not

well keep silence respecting these without making the

tacit admission that the objections they urged were valid.

I therefore added some pages dealing with them --with

the first briefly and with the second at greater length.
   In the next number of the British Quarterly Review

           301

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1873

wrangler, as it turned out) in which he sought to justify
his assertions. As some of these, touching the natures

of our mathematico-physical cognitions, tacitly called in

question the philosophical method pursued by me, I

thought it needful to go further into the matter: defend
ing my own positions and making assaults on those of
the reviewer. The result was the publication of a pam

phlet which I distributed widely among leading men in

the scientific world.
   This pamphlet, which was issued early in 1874, would,

I supposed, end the matter; but it did not. It initiated a

controversy in the pages of Nature (chiefly concern
ing the bases of the mechanical axioms), into which other
combatants rushed; and, broadening out as all contro

versies do, this continued during the spring. As left
standing in Nature, the results were unsatisfactory. De

termined as I was that the main question, obscured in
the dust raised, should not be lost sight of, I drew up a

second pamphlet, consisting chiefly of the letters pub

lished in Nature with explanatory notes, and ending with
a summary of the results: pointing out that my several

theses, which I prefixed to the summary, remained out
standing. Of this pamphlet, too, I sent copies to nu

merous competent men who might feel interested. The

final result was not unsatisfactory ; as witness the sec

ond paragraph of the following extract from a letter to

Youmans.

" On Tuesday I had a little dinner to bring together the

publishers and the Committee of the International Series.
The Kings and the Appletons seemed on very friendly terms
--there was no sign of any misunderstanding, as you seemed

to imply.

   Last night Hirst gave me the satisfactory information that

                                                  302

^t. 53]  SOME MINOR INCIDENTS

Cayley, who is Ai among mathematicians, entirely agrees

with me in the controversy with M  , and thought M

deserved all he got."

As I had also the suffrages of Prof. Sylvester (who, if

Prof. Cayley is Ai among mathematicians, may be dis

tinguished as A2) as well as of Prof. Tyndall and Dr.
Hirst (the last of whom was at that time president of the

Mathematical Society), I was content with the result.

  Another incident, dating back to this time, I should
probably have omitted had I not been reminded of it by
the following note from Mr. Edward Miall; whom I have,

in some of the earlier chapters, referred to as proprietor

and editor of the Nonconformist, and originator of the

Anti-State-Church movement. Dated Oct. 29, 1873, the
note runs:--

  " On Friday next, at three o'clock p.m. I will hope to meet
you and Mr. Morley, to whom I have written, for some

preliminary conversation on the question of Disendowment."

   At that time it seemed not impossible that the question

of disestablishment might suddenly come to the front, in

the form of a proposal for separating the Church from

the State, and assigning to it all the property it now holds
in trust; and that those who were opposed to any scheme

of the kind might find themselves taken unawares unless

they were ready with specific plans for disendowment.

Already Mr. Miall and I had talked over the matter; and
I had spoken to Mr. John Morley and Mr. Frederic Har

rison. The meeting took place as arranged, and a gen

eral understanding was come to. It was thought that it

would be a fit division of labour if the agitation for dises

tablishment on religious grounds were left to dissenters,

                       303

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1873

one should deal with the disendowment problem. Re
specting the measures to be proposed, too, common

views were arrived at. It was agreed that disendowment

should be effected by the dying out of life-interests in
the mass of cases; by the compensation of lay patrons;
by the making over of parish churches to parishioners,
to be used at their discretion for religious purposes ; and,

after the satisfaction of all equitable claims, by the appro
priation of the remaining funds towards the liquidation
of the National Debt. And it was also agreed that the
property which has accrued to the Church from volun
tary sources since the Reformation, should be dealt with
by the State exclusively in its judicial capacity; that is
to say, the State should, in each case, decide in what way
the property should be settled so as best to fulfil the in

tentions of the donors.

   Some little time afterwards we had a dinner at the
Westminster Palace Hotel, to which, besides those al

ready named, there came sundry others interested in the

matter; among whom, I remember, was Mr. Joseph

Chamberlain, at that time known only as a Birmingham
notable. It was decided that a draft Bill should be pre
pared, embodying in specific shapes something like the
general proposals above indicated. This was done; and

I suppose this draft Bill somewhere exists in a state --
I was going to say, of suspended animation; but, as it

was never born, the phrase would be inapplicable.

   What happened subsequently I do not remember.

304

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

             VOLUME II

                                 CONTENTS     PAGE

   CHAITER .                                   452
                                               457
 LVII. Coming Events                           482
LVIII. A Visit to America

  LIX. Conclusion

                         PART XII.             489
LX. Reflections Written Four Years Later

                              APPENDICES.      553
                                               557
      A Note Concerning the Life and Letters   565
            of T. H. Huxley
                                               573
A. Programme of the Synthetic Philosophy .     576

....B. Letter to Mr. G. H. Lewes               580
                                               591
C. Documents Concerning the Cessation of       594
            the Issue of the Philosophy . . .  598
                                               605
D. A New Invalid-Bed
E. English Feeling about the American

            Civil War
F. A New Fishing-Rod Joint

....G. Obituary Notice of J. S. Mill

H. Letter of Prof. Youmans

       Index

vn


                    CHAPTER XLVII.

              THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY.

                   1867--74. JEt. 47-- 54-

  In the last chapter but one I had to make an overlap in
the narrative, and here I have to make a double overlap.

For not only while there were occurring the incidents set

down in many preceding chapters, but also while there
were occurring those set down in the chapter described
as an overlap, there was being carried on an undertaking,

the progress of which I could not continually refer to

without confusing the accounts of doings which mainly
occupied me.

  In Chapter XLI I briefly described certain prepara

tions, then commenced, for the Principles of Sociology:
saying howrI had arranged to have collected for me, and
put in fitly classified groups and tables, facts of all kinds,
presented by numerous races, which illustrate social evo
lution under its various aspects. Though this classified
compilation of materials was entered upon solely to facili
tate my own work, yet, after having brought the mode of
classification to a satisfactory form, and after having had

some of the tables filled up, I decided to have the scheme

executed with a view to publication : the facts being so
presented, apart from hypotheses, as to aid all students
of Social Science in testing such conclusions as they have
drawn and in drawing others. 7

                63 305"

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-74

   This undertaking, commenced at the close of 1867, had
been quietly progressing from that time to the time now
reached-- 1874. The chief occurrences connected with
the prosecution of it down to the latter date, must here

be set down.

   The loss of Mr. Duncan's services was followed by a

considerable interval during which the work stood still :

no successor being discoverable. As already shown by

an extract from a letter dated 9 March 1870, I sought for
aid in the United States as well as in Great Britain. A
passage preceding the one quoted, which I had reserved
for use here, runs as follows :--

   " The accounts of the uncivilized races have been in a

great measure digested, and the facts they present duly

arranged ; and Mr. Duncan will, I hope, be able to complete

them within a moderate period after he reaches India. We

have agreed, too, that he shall, while in India, carry on the
second part of the work, dealing with the extinct and

decayed historic races. But I see that it will be needful,

with a view to the completion of the undertaking in such

time as to render it available for me, that the modern historic

races should be undertaken by some one else."

   Of course the required qualifications, which were high,
excluded the mass of applicants. At length there came

to me, on recommendation, a young Scotchman, clerical

by education and ambition, but who was, I suspect, " a

stickit minister." He had not abandoned his ambition,

however ; for I afterwards learned that during his

engagement with me he occasionally preached: an
anomalous combination of functions. He was a dull

fellow. So wanting in ability to do anything requiring

more than mechanical intelligence did he prove, that I

306

jEt. 47-54] THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

   And here I seize the occasion for expressing my belief

that not only does education, as at present carried on, fail
to increase the power of independent thought, in those
who have little, but it tends to diminish such power of

independent thought as they naturally have. Of sundry
instances which have fallen under my observation, I will
name only the most striking --that of a University gradu

ate who had recently taken his degree with honours,
though not high ones. Along with the knowledge thus
implied there went almost incredible ignorance. He asked
me whether the disappearance of a distant vessel at sea
was due to failure of vision, or whether, as some said, it
was consequent on the curvature of the Earth. On a
reference being made to the increase of the population in
England, he proved to be unaware of the fact that our
population is increasing. He spoke of the gizzard of a
dog; and was surprised on being told that mammals
have no gizzards. But the most astonishing example
disclosed itself the moment he began to write to my dicta
tion. He did not know that the commencement of a
paragraph is invariably shown by the setting back of the
initial word ! He began the first line of each paragraph

level with the other lines; and, until I explained it to

him, did not see that when the preceding paragraph hap
pens to fill out completely its last line, a new paragraph
cannot be marked at all unless its first word is thus set
back. Here was one who, during his school career and
college career, had been daily occupied with books for
many hours, and who was so unobservant that he had
never remarked this uniform trait in them ; much less
had perceived how such a trait arises ! .

   Everybody nowadays hears of the mischiefs of

                                                  307

                        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                      [1867-74

     no effect whatever. Though it has become manifest thatit,is
           is
     the accumulation of knowledge in excess of power to                 I
                                              ;
     use not only no aid to efficiency, but an impedi
     ;ment to efficiency yet the quantity of knowledge ac
     cumulated continues to be used as the measure of effi

     ciency. In pursuance of the law-established conceptions
     of education the system has practically become unalter
     able and the minds of the young, overburdened with
     useless knowledge, will presently exhibit the effects of
     measures which might fitly be called measures for the
     increase of stupidity.

a            was not until after many months had passed that

   Itsucceeded in finding, in the person of Mr. James Collier,
       capable successor to Mr. Duncan. Educated partly at

     St. Andrews and partly at Edinburgh, Mr. Collier,

though he had not taken his degree, possessed in full

     measure the qualifications requisite for the compilation

and tabulation of the Descriptive Sociology; and the third

division of the work, dealing with the existing civilized

races, progressed satisfactorily in his hands.

     Thereafter, correspondence yields no trace of the prog

ress of the work until 27 April 1871, when                    find in                a
letter to Youmans the following passage --
                                                      :

                                                           I

     " In so far as immediate personal results are concerned, this

     [product of American sales of my books]          is      matter of
                                                          a

     comparative indifference to me. Now, and for the future,

     the realization of profits interests me mainly as facilitating

     this large expensive undertaking which, as you know, am
     having carried on by proxy partly with view to the facili
                                                 ;

                                                   a

                                                       I

                                                              a
                                                                            a

                                                                                  I
     tation of my own work when come to the Sociological

     division of but still more with view to wide and perma
                It it,
     nent use.      is  now nearly year since the printing of the

                                                 308

.St. 47-54] THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

 moulds) was commenced. On a rough estimate, something
 like £600 will have to be laid out before any returns can
 begin to come in; and the rate at which the work can be
 carried on, is limited by the rate at which the surplus
 returns from the sale of my books enable me to pay printers'

bills. With a view to more rapid progress with this work, I

 am therefore interested in the advance of the American
 sales."

    Evidently the prosecution of the scheme, irrespective of
the immediate needs of my own work, had come to in
terest me greatly.

   The undertaking had now so far advanced that the
tables embodying the classified facts presented by some
of the uncivilized societies, were in type; and when my
friend Youmans came over in July 1871, he saw a num
ber of the proofs. Unlike those who have not dropped
their educational blinkers, he was in all cases quick to
recognize things lying off the beaten track, and to see
their relative importance. It became at once manifest
to him that exhibiting sociological phenomena in such
wise that comparisons of them in their coexistences and
sequences, as occurring among various peoples in differ
ent stages, were made easy, would immensely facilitate
the discovery of sociological truths. To have before us,
in manageable form, evidence proving the correlations
which everywhere exist between great militant activity
and the degradation of women, between a despotic form
of government and elaborate ceremonial in social inter
course, between relatively peaceful social activities and
the relaxation of coercive institutions, promises further
ance of human welfare in a much greater degree than
does learning whether the story of Alfred and the cakes

                                                  309

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-74

 with Essex or not, where Prince Charles hid himself,
 and what were the details of this battle or the other siege
 -- pieces of historical gossip which cannot in the least

 affect men's conceptions of the ways in which social
 phenomena hang together, or aid them in shaping their
 public conduct. Without recognizing such sociological
 correlations as those just instanced, which, indeed, at that
 time did not " jump to the eyes," as they did when a

 large number of tables had been prepared, my friend
 anticipated much help in rationalizing men's conceptions

 of civilization and guiding their actions in politics.
    It resulted that he became anxious to have the under

 taking pushed forward with greater rapidity. The first
 division, dealing with the uncivilized races, was in prog
 ress ; as was also the third division, dealing with the

 existing civilized races ; but nothing had been done, or
 was about to be done, towards executing the second divi

 sion, dealing with the extinct and decayed civilized races.
 On learning this he urged me to put this division also in

hand. I explained that already my resources were taxed

 to the uttermost by payments for compilation and print

 ing, and that more rapid progress was impossible. Eager

 to have useful things done, as he always was, he presently

made me a remarkable proposal. If I would superintend

 the execution of the second division, he undertook, on

 behalf of the Americans, that they would furnish funds

 for paying the compiler and the printer. In what way I
 received this proposal I cannot remember. Indeed, until
 correspondence recalled it to me, I had forgotten it. Evi
 dently, however, as shown by subsequent occurrences, I
 finally assented. For when, after making arrangements

 with M. Bailliere for the publication of the " Interna

310

&t. 47-54] THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

and he for Germany, it was with the understanding that

he should advertise in German newspapers for a fit com

piler.

   In most cases the answers to advertisements are any

thing but satisfactory. Ordinarily there come many

blanks and no prize; but in this case there came one

prize and no blanks. The solitary respondent was Dr.
Richard Scheppig, at that time a teacher at Hoffwill

school. He accepted the engagement, and joined me at

the end of the year. Writing to Youmans on Feb. 2,

1872, I said of him :-- " Scheppig is beginning to get into
his work, and, as I gather, likes it. He seems to me a

clear-headed fellow, and              think, likely to succeed."
I4

         it

                         I
                                                   is,

                                  II
                                                             It

                                                                                    is

                                                                        I
This expectation was fully verified. He turned out to be

admirably adapted for the work he had undertaken.

   The financial arrangement made with Youmans, how

ever, was not carried out. Mis-statements which had

become current in America respecting the continuance of

my work, which was represented as having been made

possible exclusively by the American testimonial, in

creased the reluctance originally felt. The following

letter refers to the erroneous impressions that prevailed

and to the course consequently taken by me.             dated

"  May, 1872.                 absurd  statements  that  are current
     heard lately of certain

in America respecting the aid rendered to me by Americans,

and the difficulties from which was rescued by them. The

copy of the New York Evening Mail of April 15, which

received from you this morning, serves indirectly to verify

the report that had reached me respecting these statements;

since makes statements, nearly akin to them, that are no

                              3"

        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1867-74

Ishould be checked.  at first thought, on reading the article,

of writing a letter myself to the New York Evening Mail on

the matter. But on second thoughts I see that the statement

will come better from you. Inclosed I give you an outline of

the facts, sufficient to dissipate the erroneous beliefs that have

been spread among you, and are likely to become exaggerated

as well as confirmed if they pass uncontradicted. . . .

IUnder the circumstances must cancel the arrangement made

with regard to the payment of Scheppig, and the American

publication of the second division of the Descriptive Soci

ology. I see that whatever precaution may be taken it is
sure to be misapprehended and mis-stated. I see that I shall
be able to pay Scheppig myself-- especially now that the pro

ceeds of these sociological articles have come to help."

  Writing on the 10th August, I said :-- " Your letter

was just the thing needed, and the circulation of it

through the Tribune will be quite sufficient." Most of

the facts contained in this letter are already known to the

reader; but as there are joined with them some not be

fore stated, I have decided to reproduce it in Appen

dix H.

   The work proceeded without incident until the suc
ceeding midsummer, when a letter of July 31, 1873,
says :-- " The first number of Descriptive Sociology was
published yesterday." On the 27th September, time hav

ing been given to contemplate my position, I sent my

friend a discouraging report :--

" I have just been going through my bills, and I find that

this first number has cost me for the--
Composition, Correction, Stereotyping, Dupli

   cate Plates and Printing One Thousand Copies £351 15 10
Cost of authorship [i.e. payments to compiler] . . 296 7 2

                                                                                        £648 3 o

                                                  312

Mt. 47-54I THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

   You will see at once that to reimburse myself for this large

outlay (which would reach £700 were I to add loss of

interest) will require either an extensive sale or a pretty

high rate of profit on a small sale ; and I see little chance of

being able to go on with such returns from America as even

your last letter seems to imply." . . .                                               I am

" I am quite content to give my labour for nothing.

content even to lose something by unrepaid costs of author

ship. But it is clear that I shall not be able to bear the loss

that now appears likely. In addition to the sum of £648

named above, I have already spent on the first division of

Duncan, " Uncivilized Races," in printing and authorship,

about £400; and on the second division about £280. So that

you see I am more than £1300 out of pocket without getting
a penny back. I must now, being in the middle of
                                   is                                                 com

                                                        I it,
plete the first part of the " Extinct Civilized Races " and the
first part of the " Savage Races," by which time
                                                                                      shall

have laid out more than £2000. It will then be time to

stop for, as now infer, there      but little probability
;

              a

           I
of getting return that will approximately meet my out

lay."

   At the close of the subsequent March, find passage
implying further discouragement: --

   " No. of the Des. Soc. out, and have ordered copy

to be sent to you. It will be very valuable instalment for
          2                   is
                                  a
                          of
                                          I
                                                I

                                                                      a
                                                                                   a

all people sufficiently rational to appreciate it; of which,

however, there are unfortunately but few. The third volume

of Forster's Life             Dickens sold 10,000 copies in ten days.

The first part of Descriptive Sociology has been asked for by

the public to the extent of not quite 200 copies in eight

months."

        was thus becoming clear that had greatly over
estimated the amount of desire which existed in the
public mind for social facts of an instructive kind. They
It

                                        I

                              313

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                             [1867-74

   My American friend had, I suppose, been naming to

some of those likely to be interested, these adverse re

sults, and the consequent probability that I should shortly

bring the undertaking to a close ; for, early in the au
tumn, he transmitted to me a letter from Mr. Edwin W.
Bryant, an actuary of St. Louis, showing something more
than ordinary sympathy. This letter, dated 27 June,
setting out with remarks of a complimentary kind con

cerning the importance of the undertaking, went on to
say:--

"But, leaving to you all this argument, to amplify, supple
ment, or suppress, as you may think best, I propose this :
that we try to get £1000 (or more if we can) to send to Mr.
Spencer, to be used by him as he chooses, in aid of the work
-- to pay for assistance, printing or whatever else there may
be to pay for. Of this amount, you may count on me for one
half --five hundred pounds -- any time at call, and without

reference to what you may get or fail to get from any one

else."

   This drew from me the following response in a letter

dated 23 Sept. 1874:--

" Bryant's proposal is a very noble one, and the more noble

because he is not, I suppose, a man of very extensive means.

I suspected that there was behind the question in your pre
vious letter, some scheme of the kind ; as I concluded that it

was not likely to come from the Appletons.

While fully appreciating the feeling with which Mr. Bry

ant's proposal is made, and that which has previously

prompted others to offer to bear part of the expenses, I still

cannot yield to such an arrangement as that proposed. There

is,
                     a
                                         it

                                         I
however, plan which occurs to me might possibly be

practicable, and which would,                think, serve the several

ends aimed at, in an unobjectionable way. Mr. Bryant and

314

Kx. 47-54] THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

the Descriptive Sociology, are also anxious that local insti
tutions should have copies. Both ends would be subserved

if they were to purchase from me, and were to distribute to

these institutions; and this arrangement might be made in

such a way as to divide the advantages. It would yield me
an ample return were I to supply copies at half the retail

price. Instead of absolutely giving copies to American libra
ries, schools, &c, my American friends might offer them
to such buyers at, say, i-3rd the retail price. In this case
they would themselves have to lose on each copy only i-6th
of the retail price; and thus a moderate sum would go a

long way. Even if they offered copies to these institutions

at 1 -4th the retail price, themselves paying the other 1-4A
the distribution of, say, 300 copies, would go far towards
covering the printing expenses, and would leave the English
sales to do something towards returning cost of authorship
[i.e. payments to compilers]."

   Three weeks later, however, I wrote withdrawing this
qualified assent, as follows :--

"After several times thinking over again the reply I made
in my last to the generous proposal made by Mr. Bryant, I

have decided to decline even that modified mode of aid which

I described as one that might perhaps be adopted. On

considering my accounts and probable resources, I conclude
that the amount of loss entailed on me will not be greater
than I can bear. Manifestly, the undertaking will become

easier as it goes on ; since, besides the proceeds of my books

at large, which seem likely to go on increasing, I shall have

the proceeds from the Descriptive Sociology itself, which, in
adequate as they may be, will go some way towards defraying

the cost of each succeeding number. As I have been able to
meet the expenditure up to the present time (for I have now
settled my printer's account) I may fairly calculate upon
being able to do so in future--especially as the parts are

                                                  315

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY               [1867-74

half year. Concluding, thus, that I shall be able to do the
work myself by devoting to it such part of my income as
remains after defraying personal expenses, I prefer to do
this. I have no motive for accumulating."

   Nothing further passed ; and thus ended all plans for

lightening the burden I had taken upon myself.

A foregoing extract, dated 27th Sept. 1873, intimates
                                   soon as I
my intention   of stopping    as              had printed and
published the  first part of  the  " Extinct  Civilized Races "
and the first part of the " Savage Races." This in

tention, however, I abandoned for more reasons than

one.

   The understanding in pursuance of which the compil

ers were working, stood in the way of so prompt a cessa

tion. To each of them I had given a double incentive

beyond the direct payment for work done which he re

ceived. One was the publication of his name as compiler

and abstracter, and consequent obtainment of credit for

such skill and labour as were implied. The other was a

promise that, as soon as the sales repaid me for printing

expenses, I would give him half the net returns, without

waiting to repay myself for the cost of compilation. This

undertaking I felt bound to carry out in respect not only

of those parts which were completed or far advanced, but

also in respect of those which were commenced. Of the

" Uncivilized Races," compiled by Prof. Duncan, such

parts as were not wholly or partially through the press

were in manuscript.    Dr.    Stchheep"piHgebhreadws alarenaddyPhmoeandi e
considerable progress  with

cians." And Mr. Collier had been for some time at work
on the " French." To have stopped at the point above

                              316

JEt. 47-54] THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

wholly still in part, the engagement I had made ; so that

I was obliged to continue.
  A further reason for continuing was that if I did not

do so, a large amount of collected, classified, and digested

information, extremely valuable to the sociological stu

dent, would be thrown away. That I was leaving in a

useless state the products of years of labour, would have

Ibeen a thought scarcely tolerable to me.  should have

been restive under the consciousness of what would have

seemed a serious loss to social science.

Thus I found myself committed to more than I at first
Iforesaw.
           accepted the situation ; and, disastrous as was

the undertaking pecuniarily considered, I persisted in it

           317


          PART X.

XLVIII. A Retrospective Glance.
  XLIX. Vol. I of the Sociology.
       L. A Series of Articles.
      LI. The Da ta of Ethics.
     LII. Ceremonial Institutions.


                    CHAPTER XLVIII.

                  A RETROSPECTIVE GLANCE.

                         1874. Mt. 54.

   Before saying anything about my next book, or rather

about my life during the time it was in hand, it will be
well to look back from this advanced stage of my under
taking to the earlier stages. This retrospective glance
discloses a certain trait not hitherto named.

  For now I had come round a second time to the topic
with which I commenced my career as a writer; after

having made, first a narrower, and then a wider, circuit
of exploration. In 1842, while but two and twenty, the

predominant interest I displayed, apart from interests in

subjects bearing on civil engineering, was an interest in

the politico-ethical question --" What are the duties of the

State, and what are not its duties". There resulted the
letters, and subsequently the pamphlet, on The Proper
Sphere of Government. In the interval between 1842 and
1848, a consciousness that the conceptions set forth in
this pamphlet were crude and incomplete, prompted me
to enter on new fields of thought and inquiry. Various
readings in politics and ethics, joined with some excur
sions into biology and psychology, gave to these concep
tions more developed forms and more satisfactory

foundations. A desire to set forth the ethical principles

reached, and the derived conclusions respecting the right

                   C4 321

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY    [1874

limits of governmental action, led, in 1848, to the com

mencement of Social Statics. At the close of 1850 the
results of this widened range of inquiry, as embodied

in that work, were published: the completion of the first

circuit having brought me round, in the latter chapters,

to my original topic.
   In the subsequent seven years, less from intention than

from unconscious proclivity, this process was repeated.

Not only subjects nearly allied to the politico-ethical, but

;also subjects remotely allied to occupied my attention

      Iand were dealt with in various essays. This extension of
                                  a
the range of inquiry, leading to more general conclusions,
                              I it,
ended in those most general conclusions set forth in the
                                                                          is
programme of the Synthetic Philosophy, written out in

the first days of 1858. In this the doctrines concerning

social organization, and after them the ethical doctrines,

were, by their positions in the series of volumes de

scribed, represented as the outcome of the doctrines in

cluded in the volumes on Biology and Psychology, as

well as of those included in First Principles. That to

say, the politico-ethical conclusions held, had come to

form the terminal part of system the earlier parts of

which prepared the way for it. From that date, 1858,

down to the time now arrived at, the years had been

spent in writing the volumes in which the simpler sci

ences, forming the true bases of the most complex

sciences, were dealt with. At length, in 1874, the sec

ond circuit, immensely wider than the first, had been

traversed and had come round once more, not imme

diately to the topic with which  set out, but to the

science of Sociology at large, which eventually rises to

this topic.

Beyond this long and elaborate preparation, which, at

             322

JEt. 54]  A RETROSPECTIVE GLANCE

first pursued without conscious reference to an end, was,

during the preceding 16 years, consciously pursued with

such reference, there had been a preparation not contem

plated. The Descriptive Sociology had been for seven

years in progress ; making me gradually acquainted with

more numerous and varied groups of social phenomena,

disclosing truths of unexpected kinds, and occasionally

obliging me to abandon some of my pre-conceptions.

And then, lastly, I had been incidentally led into writing

a book which, ostensibly for the instruction of others,
served at the same time for self-instruction -- The Study

of Sociology. In setting forth the difficulties to be en

countered and the varieties of bias to be guarded against,

I became myself better disciplined for the task I was

about to undertake.

This second recommencement, forming a new depart

ure in my work, seems to call  for some   definite division
                               therefore  thought it well
in the narrative ; and I have

here to commence Part X. 7

                     323

                      CHAPTER XLIX.

                  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY.

                     1874--77. JEt. 54--57-

  With the entry on this new division of my work, the

marshalling of evidence became a much more extensive
and complicated business than it had hitherto been. The
facts, so multitudinous in their numbers, so different in
their kinds, so varied in their sources, formed a hetero
geneous aggregate difficult to bring into the clear and
effective order required for carrying on an argument ; so

that I felt much as might a general of division who had

become commander-in-chief; or rather, as one who had
to undertake this highest function in addition to the
lower functions of all his subordinates of the first, second
and third grades. Only by deliberate method persist

ently followed, was it possible to avoid confusion. A few

words may fitly be said here concerning my materials,

and the ways in which I dealt with them.

   During the five and twenty preceding years there had
been in course of accumulation, extracts and memoranda
from time to time made. My reading, though not ex
tensive, and though chiefly devoted to the subjects which
occupied me during this long interval, frequently brought
under my eyes noteworthy facts bearing on this or that

                                                   324

**. 54-57]  VOL L OF THE SOCIOLOGY

ideas, were jotted down and put away. The resulting

mass of manuscript materials remained for years un

classified ; but every now and then I took out the con

tents of the drawer which received these miscellaneous
contributions and put them in some degree of order --

grouping together the ecclesiastical, the political, the in

dustrial &c. ; so that, by the time I began to build, there

had been formed several considerable heaps of undressed

stones and bricks.

  But now I had to utilize the relatively large masses of

materials gathered together in the Descriptive Sociology.

For economization of labour, it was needful still further to

classify these ; and to save time, as well as to avoid

errors in re-transcription, my habit was, with such parts

of the work as were printed, to cut up two copies. Sup
pose the general topic to be dealt with was " Primitive

Ideas." Then the process was that of reading through

all the groups of extracts concerning the uncivilized and
semi-civilized races under the head of " Superstitions,"

as well as those under other heads that were likely to
contain allied evidence -- " Knowledge", " Ecclesiastical "

&c. As I read I marked each statement that had any

significant bearing; and these marked statements were

cut out by my secretary after he had supplied any refer

ences which excision would destroy. The large heap

resulting was joined with the kindred heap of materials

previously accumulated ; and there now came the busi
ness of re-classifying them all in preparation for writing.

During  taopcioc nsoidfer"abPlerimpitrievceedinIdgeaspe"riodhadthebeseunbdtivhiosiuognhs t
of the

about ; and various heads of chapters had been settled--
" Ideas of Sleep and Dreams," " Ideas of Death and

            325

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

other World " &c. &c. Taking a number of sheets of

double foolscap, severally fitted to contain between their

two leaves numerous memoranda, I placed these in a

semi-circle on the floor round my chair : having indorsed

each with the title of a chapter, and having arranged
them in something like proper sequence. Then, putting

before me the heap of extracts and memoranda, I as
signed each as I read it to its appropriate chapter. Occa
sionally I came upon a fact which indicated to me the
need for a chapter I had not thought of. An additional

sheet for this was introduced, and other kindred facts

were from time to time placed with this initial one. Sev

eral sittings were usually required to thus sort the entire

heap. Mostly, too, as this process was gone through

some time in advance of need, there came a repetition, or

several repetitions, before the series of chapters had as

sumed its final order, and the materials had all been dis

tributed.

   When about to begin a chapter, I made a further rough
classification. On a small table before me I had a large
rude desk-- a hinged board, covered with green baize,

which was capable of being inclined at different angles

by a moveable prop behind. Here I grouped the col

lected materials appropriated to the successive sections of

the chapter ; and those which were to be contained in

each section were put into the most convenient sequence.

Then, as I dictated, I from time to time handed to my

secretary an extract to be incorporated.
   Concerning the start made with this division of my

work, the only information I have is contained in the
following extract dated 5 March 1874:--

" But for various minor bothers, and chiefly these replies to

criticisms, I should have been by this time pretty far ad-

326

**- S4-S7]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

vanced with the first number of the Principles of Sociology.

As it is, about 50 pp. of MS. are ready; and I shall give the

first two chapters to the printer immediately. . .

   I received this morning from the Prof, of Philosophy at

Messina, a proposal to translate my books into Italian in
conjunction with his brother. He seems a fit translator,
and I have assented. . .

  I suppose I shall hear of the Appletons soon after their
arrival. I must ask them to meet Huxley, Tyndall and King
at dinner. To night I expect to meet President Eliot of

Harvard, who is coming to dine at the X."

  Respecting the second of the foregoing paragraphs, I

may remark that the proposal to translate into Italian did

not then take effect, because the translators were unable

to find a publisher who would run the risk.

  On turning over my papers I find that in 1874 I made
an abortive attempt to keep a diary. I say abortive,

because the entries, irregular while they continued,
ceased altogether in March. The diary sets out with
mention of the usual New Year's Day dinner at Hux
ley's: the joining in which, commenced in 1856, still con
tinued. On Jan. 24 occurs the entry :--
" Went to the Burrs at Aldermaston. Met there Reeve of
the Edinburgh Rev., Lord Aberdare, Lord A. Russell, Miss

Thackeray &c."

This was not the first, but the second or third, of my visits
to Aldermaston Court, the seat of Mr. Higford Burr --
or rather, one might almost say, of Mrs. Higford Burr;
who took the lead and who habitually gathered together
on such occasions circles of agreeable people. The place
has attractive surroundings : notably the " Chase,"
which is said to date back to the time of Doomsday Book.

On two occasions when I was there, visits were paid to

                                                  327

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

Silchester, an adjacent old Roman town of which the re

mains are very striking. It must have been nearly as

large as Pompeii: the surrounding walls, which are still

almost if not quite complete, showing its dimensions.

After contemplating the uncovered basements of public
buildings, baths &c, and seeing the entrance-steps

deeply worn by passing feet, and noting, too, the remains

of an amphitheatre, I conceived far more vividly than

before the hold which Roman civilization had obtained

in England.

  While mentioning these visits into the country, I am
reminded that Spottiswoode (one of our X Club) had,

before this time, purchased Coombe Bank near Seven-

oaks. Here I occasionally spent the time from Saturday

to Monday: usually in company with others of our com

mon friends. After his mathematics, Spottiswoode es

pecially devoted himself to researches in electricity; and,

as a natural consequence, he early made domestic use of

electric lighting. I believe he was the first to have his

dinner table lighted by the Swan-lamps.

   I may here add the fact, recalled by letters of this date,
that I avoided social gatherings of a public kind. The
last public dinner I attended was in 1865; and several

motives then prompted a resolution never to attend an

other. In pursuance of this resolve I invariably declined

not only such dinners as those given in the City but

more select dinners; even including those of the Royal

Academy, which are, with good reason I believe, re

garded as particularly enjoyable. Though not from de

liberate resolution, I also fell into the habit of neglecting

invitations to public soirees. Those of the Royal Acad

emy were the only ones which I went to a few times

328

/Et. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

go, which occasionally happened, my intention melted
away when the hour for dressing came.

In May of this year I was elected a member of the

Committee of the Athenaeum, and for a long subsequent

period continued to take an active part in the administra

tion of the Club. I say an active part, because I attended
the committee-meetings with regularity. Save when I
was away from town, I believe I missed only one, and

then forgetfulness was the cause.

   Certain traits of nature, made manifest to me by ex

periences of myself as a committee-man, I may here set
down. The most conspicuous is want of tact. This

is an inherited deficiency. The Spencers of the preceding

generation were all characterized by lack of reticence.
Things thought were habitually said; and there was little
prudence in the expression of them. My mother was

distinguished by extreme simple-mindedness: so much

so that, unlike women in general, she was without the

thought of policy in her dealings with other persons. In
Ime these traits were united.
                               tended habitually to undis

guised utterance of ideas and feelings: the results be

ing that while I often excited opposition from not re

membering what others were likely to feel, I, at the

same time, disclosed my own intentions in cases where
concealment of them was needful as a means to

success.

   On one occasion my attention was irresistibly drawn

to this trait and its effects. Some proposal -- I do not
remember what --which I had made in committee, I had

urged with my usual bluntness ; with the result that those

whose prejudices I had not duly respected, voted against

             329

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

the late Sir Frederick Elliot, a man whose official life

had disciplined him in cautiousness of expression, and

who, judged by his manner, was also diplomatic by na

ture, brought forward substantially the same proposal;

and, taking care not to tread upon anybody's toes, he car

ried it without difficulty. But though I recognized the les
son, it wrought, I fancy, little or no alteration. We say

that experience teaches ; but experience is practically pow

erless to change by its teaching any marked organic tend

encies. Let me add that, though I sometimes failed in
my aims from want of tact, I frequently succeeded by

persistence.

   The term of service on the committee is three years,

and a rule provides that one who has served is not again

eligible until after the lapse of a year. During the year
which intervened between my two terms of service, I was

one of a special committee appointed at the annual gen

eral meeting to investigate a matter respecting which the
committee and the Club at large differed. Hence resulted

the anomaly that I was concerned with Club-business for

seven consecutive years.

   While speaking of committees I may name the fact
that I had been, for some time before this date, and for
long afterwards continued to be, a member of the Lon
don Library committee. At this my attendances were far
less regular: I suppose, in part, because the administra

tive business, neither so extensive nor so complex, at
tracted me less.

  This autumn I made an observation that interested

me much, as demonstrating a physical truth which is dif
ficult to believe.

  While I was at the Dell of Abernethy we had a picnic

                                                  330

*t. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

on the shore of Loch Garten, some four or five miles off.
This loch is from half a mile to a mile long, and perhaps

a quarter of a mile broad. A breeze of moderate strength

was blowing; so that, on the sandy beach next to us,
there broke small waves, say of eighteen inches wide and
three inches high. After our picnic we rowed towards
the other end of the loch. As we approached it the waves

diminished in size, gradually becoming ripples; and fin
ally we came to still water. On arriving at this glassy

surface I saw, to my great surprise, feeble undulations,

discernible only by the aid of reflections, moving in a
direction opposite to the wind. No other origin for these

could be assigned than the recoil-waves from the sandy
beach at the opposite end, which had persisted through
all the intervening rough water, and finally made their re

appearance in this remote smooth water. Many must
have occasionally observed how, when a breaker bursts

against a sea-wall, the recoil-wave rushes out seawards;

and some have learned that this wave continues its
progress out to sea, invisibly modifying the forms of the
incoming waves, until at a great distance it is dissipated

by fluid friction. Though theoretically accepted by me,
this truth had been but vaguely conceived. Now it was

brought home very clearly.
   My stay at Ardtornish this year was abridged to little

more than a fortnight; for I was due at Belfast on the

19th of August. The British Association met there.

Tyndall was president; and I felt bound to be present.

As on the occasion of the meeting at Liverpool, the mem

bers of the X Club, with their wives, made a family party

at the chief hotel; and this of course gave an enjoyable
character to our sojourn. Many will remember that

            331

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                   [1874-77

Science which bring it into relation with Theology, was
a very bold one, and produced a strong sensation fol
lowed by a good deal of controversy. My remembrance
of the address is further strengthened by a personal in
terest it had for me. Some passages in it referred to the
evolutionary character of the Principles of Psychology,
and aimed at correcting current misapprehensions re
specting the origin of the evolutionary doctrine, in so
far as it applies to Mind. I have before exemplified
Prof. Tyndall's chivalrous desire to see justice done
where he thinks it is not done, and it was here manifested

on my behalf. Not much effect was produced, however.
The public mind, difficult to impress, having once taken
an impression, retains it right or wrong, and resents any

effort to change it.
   The pleasures of my stay at Belfast were increased by

the presence of my friend Lott. At its close he and I had

a further week or ten days of companionship at

Llandudno on our way south. Departing thence, I

sojourned for a while at Standish before returning to
London.

Neither correspondence nor memory furnishes me with

anything to set down until the close of the year.  A letter
of 8. December says :--
                                                   business-
" I am dreadfully bothered with an increasing

correspondence, and with increasing private correspondence,

and with presentation copies of books. I am now deciding

to do the replying and acknowledging by deputy, whenever

it can possibly be done. One-third to one-half of my morning

has been of late cut off by these distractions.

Otherwise things are going on remarkably well. The sec

ond volume of the French translation of the Psychology is

332

&*. 54-57]    VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

the Education, and am expecting shortly to have their trans
lation of First Principles."

Winter passed and the early spring passed without

incident. Here is a passage written to Youmans on
April 10, 1875: --
" Thanks for your untiring advocacy, and for your defence
in the last number of the Monthly. It is droll to find myself

described by some as not being inductive, while by others I

am blamed for overburdening my arguments with illustra

tive facts."

And here is another  from   a letter dated  April 14: --   on
" Though I wrote to  you a  few days ago,   I write again

receiving your letter of the 3rd, to say how glad I shall be to

see you. Irrespective of other ends, I doubt not you will

derive physical and mental benefits from the change of

scene and from the enforced rest of the voyage. I shall be
in town till towards the end of July ; after which date I shall
probably be away for some six weeks, so that if you come

in May there will be some six weeks during which we may
be together (for of course I shall expect you to come and
stay at Queen's Gardens as my guest) and there will be a

further interval after my return to town."

This programme was partially carried out : he arrived on
July 14, and joined me as proposed.

   Very little more has to be said concerning the inci
dents of the season. There were the usual perturbations
of health, and short absences of a week or so to obtain,

partly by fresh air and partly by quiet, better nights and
restored power of working. Letters show that during

two such absences in February and May I was at
Brighton; and at Easter I was at Clifton, where I was

joined by Lott.
   But the fact perhaps most worth mentioning is that in

                                                  333

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

May I commenced dictating the rough draft of this auto

biography. How came I to take such a step at so rela

tively early a period? may be asked. The cause was this.
Not long before, a friend referred to a not unimportant
scheme I had several years previously suggested to him,

for furthering a public movement then in progress.

By the help of his reminder I recalled the incident ; but

it was clear to me that, had it not been for his reminder,

it would have disappeared absolutely from my memory.
There afterwards resulted the reflection that if a biogra
phy was to be written, either by myself or any one else,

the materials for it should be collected at once ; otherwise

there would probably be serious omissions.
   " But why a biography at all? " will perhaps be asked.

The question is reasonable enough, considering how

often I have uttered unfavourable opinions concerning

biography at large. The reply is that in these days of

active book-manufacture, when there are so many men
each of whom, having completed and sold one work, forth

with casts about for the subject-matter of another, no one

whose name has been much before the public can escape

having his life written: if he does not do it himself some
one else will do it for him. This induction from current

experience brought with it the conclusion that in either
case it was desirble that a connected narrative of events,

such as I alone could furnish with anything like com

pleteness, should be written; and that the verifying and
illustrative materials should be put in order along with it.

    How to execute this task remained for some time a

problem. I could not think of suspending my ordinary

work for the purpose -- sacrificing the important for the
relatively unimportant. And yet, if I postponed setting

334

**- 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

pletion of the Synthetic Philosophy, it was pretty clear
that they would never be set down at all. At length I hit

upon a compromise. Each successive week I prepared

myself by looking through the correspondence and docu

ments referring to the period to be dealt with, and then,

for an hour on Saturday afternoon, I dictated to a short

hand writer: narrating in brief form the chief events, with
my comments upon them, without regard to literary form
or even correctness of expression. The transcribed
notes, which the shorthand writer handed to me the next

week in the shape of a large-sized copy book of twenty

or thirty pages, I took from him, and inserted between

the leaves in their respective places all the relevant let
ters and other papers. How long this process continued

I cannot remember: for something like a year I think.

Eventually the narrative was brought up to date and the

process ceased.
    This rough draft, with its incorporated materials, re

mained for many years in the same state; changed only

by an occasional addition, and in a few places by redic-

tating portions in somewhat more complete forms. It
would have remained in this state to the present time had

it not been for the utter breakdown of health which made
it impossible to do any but the lightest work, and lim
ited me to extremely little even of that.

   In the middle of July, as already indicated, arrived my

friend Youmans with his sister and nephew ; and a week

afterwards, leaving them in possession, I departed for

the North.

   Little needs be said concerning my month at Ardtor-

nish. I may set down, however, an interesting elucida

            335

                      AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY               [1874-77

    Along the shore of Loch Aline, between the new house

and the ferry, there is a tract of shelving beach on which

grows a zone of bladder-weed, covered at high tide, dry

at low tide, and at mid-tide partially floating, in such wise

that the upper fronds of each plant lie on the surface.

As we drove by one day, when a fresh breeze was blow

ing from the other side of the loch, producing waves of

moderate size, the surfaces of which were of course cov

ered by wavelets and ripples, my attention was drawn to

the fact that all the wavelets and ripples were stopped

by this belt formed of the patches of partially-floating

bladder-weed, while the larger undulations passed

through this belt, and, traversing the smooth water inside

    it,
                  is
of reached the beach. This struck me as illustrating

that which said to happen with luminiferous undula

tions. Passing through air containing impurities--dust,
smoke or thick vapour -- the shorter among these are

stopped, while the longer pass through. The result
                                                     is
that under such circumstances the Sun appears red: the  a

red rays being those formed of the longer undulations.        it is

Doubtless the waves are of utterly different natures, so

that nothing more than analogy may be alleged; but

is  an interesting analogy.

    The transition from the scientific to the comic  vio

lent one; but am led to make here by remembering
              I

                           a

                       I

                                           a it
that during my stay verified rather amusing story

which dated back some dozen years or more. The head

gamekeeper's son, young man of twenty, was quizzed

by me one day when we were out fishing, concerning this

story of his boyhood and, as he looked sheepish and
                      iIt,
                                          ;

                                           a it
did not deny          presume was true. At the time in
question Lord Kirkcaldy -- very unimposing sample of

                             336

iEt. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

cident -- was staying at Ardtornish for a little salmon-

fishing. One day during his stay this gamekeeper's son,

then perhaps some six or seven years of age, ran in to his
mother exclaiming-- " O mither, mither, I've seen the
Lord, and he's just like a man! "

  Leaving Ardtornish towards the close of August I

broke my journey south by a week at Llandudno and

reached London early in September. When I add that

the latter part of October and beginning of November

were spent at Standish, I have sufficiently indicated my

autumn doings.

   Late in the autumn my friend Youmans, after return
ing to America, sent me a discouraging account of him

self. Already extracts from my letters have from time

to time shown that I expostulated with him for his dis

regard alike of health and of personal interests while pur

suing his aims--aims largely directed to the propagation
of Evolution-doctrines and diffusion of my works. He

had now illustrated afresh this tendency to undue self-

sacrifice, and I wrote to him strongly on the subject. My

letter, dated 18. Dec., while it may serve as a general

lesson, I quote here partly because it illustrates this

trait of his nature, and partly because it illustrates a trait

of my nature --a somewhat too candid expression of

opinions.

" Turning to your letter, let me say first that I have regretted

greatly to have an account of your state that is so unsatis
factory, alike by what it says and by what it implies. To
think that you should have come over here mainly to recruit,
and now that you should be apparently no better than when
you left ; and all because you would go on working and
worrying instead of resting ! Your intention to be careful

                65 337

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

now amounts to nothing --you have all along been intending
that and doing the contrary. That you will either cut short
your life, or incapacitate yourself, is an inference one can

not avoid drawing; seeing that in your case, as in a host of

other cases, experience seems to have not the slightest effect.

It is a kind of work-drunkenness; and you seem to be no

more able to resist the temptation than the dypsomaniac

resists alcohol. Excuse my strong expressions. I use them

in the hope that they may do some good, though it is a very
faint hope. The only course which could give me any confi
dence that you will not bring your career of usefulness to a

premature close, would be to learn that you had put yourself

under the despotic control of your sister ; and even if you did
this, I suspect you would quickly break the agreement under
the pressure of some fancied necessity. As though fulfilment

of some passing purpose was necessary and maintenance of
life unnecessary ! What is the use of all this propagation of

knowledge, if it is to end in such results?"
   Unhappily the opinion above expressed that he would

bring his life to a premature close was verified. Though

he reached the age of sixty-six, yet that his death at that

age was premature is shown by the fact that both his

parents were then alive.

  In a letter to him written ten days later, I find the fol
lowing passage about another matter:--

" Since I wrote I received some news from Russia which will
interest you. A professor at Kiev proposes, in conjunction

with his colleagues and pupils, to translate the Descriptive
Sociology. He tells me, to my surprise, that all my books
have now been translated into Russian with the exception
of the Descriptive Sociology, which will thus soon be added
to the list. Further, he tells me that he has proposed to the
Historical Society of Kiev to make a like classification and
tabulation of Russian history. The name of this Russian is

338

*t. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

Whether this project was carried out I could not at first
remember, but I have since found proof that it was.

  While I am quoting from letters I may as well add a

passage from one to my friend Lott dated a week after,

namely Jan. 5, 1876. This I give chiefly for the sake

of its second paragraph: --

" I am sorry to hear your plans are interfered with. How
ever, next week will suit me just as well. If Mr. Earp is

sufficiently recovered you might come on Saturday. You

would not, indeed, find me at home in the evening; for we

shall be celebrating our hundredth meeting of the X club;

but Miss Shickle will take care of you until my return.

  I am glad you like No. 40. It is surprising what an effect

is produced on one by this tracing out the natural history

of beliefs. I feel, even myself, more completely out of the

wood now that the whole thing is accounted for : not having

been conscious that I remained at all in the shade of the
wood, until now that I have got into broad daylight."

   The process here described as at length ended had

been a long one, for it commenced when I was in

my teens.

   The first volume of the Principles of Sociology might
have been issued before Midsummer 1876, had it not

been for the discovery of a serious lacuna in my original
scheme. Up to this time the programme of the Syn
thetic Philosophy, issued in 1860, had been in all respects
adhered to; but now it became clear that an addition

must be made. I had, as most do, approached the sub

ject of Sociology on its political side; and though, when
its divisions were set down, there was a clear recognition
of sundry other sides --the Ecclesiastical, the Industrial,
and so forth, --yet all of these were what may be dis

            339

                   AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                     (1874-77

in fact, as we ordinarily conceive
                             I       concerned exclu

                                      it,
                                            is
                                                                  is

                                                                                                         ;
sively with the phenomena resulting from the co-opera

tion of citizens. But now, when about to deal with insti

tutions of this or that kind, suddenly became aware

that domestic institutions had to be dealt with. It was

not that accepted in full the views of Sir Henry Maine
I
     Ifor my studies of primitive societies had familiarized me

with the truths that the patriarchal form of family not

the earliest, and that the relations of parents to one an

other and to children have sundry more archaic forms.

But became conscious that these more archaic forms,

as well as the more developed form supposed by him to

be universal, influence deeply the type of social organiza

tion assumed. Further, reflection made                  clear that
                 I

                       a
                                a

                                      I
                                                   it I it

                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                          1
intrinsically as well as extrinsically, the traits of its family-

life form an important group in the traits presented by

each society; and that great omission had been made

in ignoring them.

   The result was that in the spring of 1876 began to
prepare myself for treating this topic; and further

result was that delayed the publication of Vol. of

the Sociology for the purpose of adding to the new

division required: course which have since regretted;

for now manifest to me that the first volume ought
it
    is

to have included the Data and the Inductions only.

Neither letters nor documents recall anything worthy

of record during the season of 1876; and pass at once
I
                              I

                                   I
                                                     I
to the latter part of July, when left for the North.

had been told of good fishing in the Morar, and while

staying with my friends at the Dell of Abernethy this

information had its effect.       opened negotiations with

                             340

·**. 54-57]   VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

river belonged, and eventually agreed to take the fishing.

Ten days later I started for the west. The drive from

Banavie to Arisaig was new to me; and though I in

ternally grumbled at having to post all the way (more

than forty miles I think), yet I felt before the day was
over that I was amply repaid by the scenery. A letter

describes the drive as " the most beautiful drive in the

kingdom so far as I have seen." As I approached
Arisaig I heard that Lord Lovat was in advance of me;

and, on my arrival, found the hotel occupied by him and

his suite. The factor, coming afterwards, explained that

Lord Lovat, somewhat taken aback that his fishing had

been let, suggested that I might like to try the river

for a few days before finally agreeing to rent                                                 a                   and
                                                                                                              it,
that meanwhile he would take cast himself. Of course
I
                   I is

                                 I

                                                           aa
assented; and next day, not wishing to interfere with

the owner's amusement, postponed going over to the

Morar, which  some miles off, till the evening after his
return. Here  found myself good deal deceived -- not

by the untruth of statements made but by the omission

of something equally true. Success quickly proved the

presence of numerous sea-trout and then, just below the
I

                 in
                     a
                                               a

                                                                                            ;
falls, which could not be leapt by fish for want of water,

had remarkable ocular proof of the presence of salmon.

There,       smooth back water, were lying, unconcealed

and unalarmed, half dozen salmon and score of sea-

trout. While sitting on an overhanging rock with feet

dangling above the water, one could see these large and

small fish quietly sailing about so close that even the

opening and shutting of their gills was visible. The place

was kind of natural aquarium, the like of which have
a

                                                      I

neither seen nor heard of elsewhere. But now the per

              341

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

tending from the falls to the sea, was less than two hun
dred yards in length, and that out of some four salmon-

casts in that distance there was but one at which there

seemed a fair chance of landing a fish when hooked. Join
ing these facts with the fact that after three days' stay
there came no rain, nor at the end of that time any sign

of rain, I decided to relinquish the agreement and leave

Lord Lovat uninterfered with.

   But how to get away? I discovered that next day a

steamer coming south would touch at Armadale in Skye
--a place on the other side of the Sleat Sound about a
dozen miles higher up. Here was an escape. Next

morning a fishing boat which I hired took me, partly

sailing and partly rowing, to Armadale bay in good time.
Here occurred an instructive incident which must be my
excuse for the foregoing details. " Shall we land, sir? "

asked the boatmen. " No," I replied. " See, there is the

steamer coming; she will be here in less than half an

hour." So the men rested on their oars in the midst of
the bay. As the steamer approached they rowed me out

to meet her, and my ascent up her side was watched by

two friends who saluted me as I stepped on deck --a

daughter of Prof. Sellar and an uncle of hers.

    Suppose there had arisen some question the decision
of which turned on my presence in or absence from Skye

that year. My oath or affirmation that I had not been in

Skye might have been met by two witnesses who swore
that they saw me come out of Armadale bay in Skye and

get on board the steamer: the visible fact testified to by

them being identified with the inference that I had come

from the shore. In face of their testimony the explana
tion given by me would have been taken by all as an

342

**. S4-S7J  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

  Three days later I was at Laidlawstiel, the residence,

or rather one of the residences, on the estate of Mrs.
Mitchell (now Lady Reay) -- a lady whose scientific pro
clivities were shown by the establishment of a laboratory,

and for whom Prof. Piazzi Smyth had set up a reflect

ing telescope. The place stands high above the Tweed
nearly opposite Ashestiel, the residence of Scott at one
time. Here, in a pleasant circle, a week passed away,

partly filled with some lawn-tennis playing and a great
deal of talking -- far too much indeed for my welfare.

  Before I returned to town a few days were spent at

Derby with my friend George Holme, who, as narrated

in an early chapter, saved me from drowning when I was

a boy. Other few days were spent with Lott at Quorn-
don, or Quorn as it is commonly called, -- a place about
four miles off, which serves as a sanatorium for Derby,

and where my friend had now taken a house, in which

he continued to reside during the rest of his life. Home

was reached early in September.

  Immediately after my return I made a change in work

ing arrangements; consequent, partly, on the desire to

relieve Mr. Collier from a daily task too mechanical to
be properly assigned to him. As explained in a preced

ing chapter, I had, in earlier years, employed a youth as
amanuensis; and then, after 1867, when Mr. Duncan

came to me as secretary, he was occupied every morn

ing in writing to my dictation from 10 till I, and devoted
the rest of the day to the Descriptive Sociology. This rou
tine had continued: Mr. Collier fulfilling the same divided
functions. For some time he had been occupied with the
French Civilization; and it now seemed to me undesir

            343

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

should any longer be prevented from spending all his
energies on the work for which his powers and culture

fitted him. Having become able to pay for more help,
I therefore decided to emancipate him from his morn

ing's clerk-like duties, and to employ some one else to

discharge them.

   The experience I had recently had while dictating to

a shorthand-writer the rough draft of the autobiography,

opened my eyes to the fact that I might effect some

further economy of brain-power by having an amanu

ensis who could write shorthand. On trial I found that

my anticipations were fulfilled; and thereafter continued
to benefit by the discovery. For letter-writing the ad

vantages proved great. Choice of the best expressions

not being of moment, a marked saving of time and effort

was achieved. For book-writing the advantage was by
no means so great, but still appreciable. Forms of sen

tences having to be as carefully weighed as before, the

required pauses remained unabridged ; and I habitually

kept my shorthand-writer waiting, sometimes for long in

tervals, while I decided on the way in which a thought

should be framed. But, though thus far there was no

gain of time or of effort, there was a gain in the rapidity
with which a sentence, or part of a sentence, once fixed
upon, could be disposed of. With a longhand-writer as
amanuensis, a few words only could be uttered at a time;

and if a whole sentence, or large part of a sentence, had

been mentally prepared, it had to be kept before the mind
while the successive instalments forming it were written
down. When, however, the amanuensis was a shorthand-

writer, the whole sentence, or such part of the sentence

as was ready, could be uttered right off, and the atten

344

/Et. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

was thus saved and a great deal of attention econo

mized.

   Hereafter, if the employment of shorthand-writers in
creases, this proceeding will seem an ordinary one. At

the time of which I speak it was quite exceptional for an

author, though not for a lawyer or merchant.

   During the subsequent two months at home, consid
erable progress was made with " Domestic Institutions,"

by the completion of which I hoped shortly to end the

volume. But either because of my unsatisfactory autumn-

holiday in the course of which an injury to my foot nega

tived the usual amount of walking, or because I applied

myself too strenuously to work, there came, before the

middle of November, a collapse, and I had to desist. My
friends at Standish had recently invited me, and I had
postponed acceptance. Now, however, I revoked my de

cision and went: not with a beneficial result, as is shown

by the following extract :--

" Unfortunately it happened that my friends in the country

had their house full of guests, and that there were large

and elaborate dinner parties nearly every night of my stay ;

so that, so far from leading a quiet life as I had anticipated,
I did the reverse, and ended by making myself worse than
when I went. The climax of the mischief was brought about

by the Bishop of Gloucester, who would get me into meta

physical controversy."

   To this last sentence there hangs a tale, or rather there

hang two tales, not altogether unamusing. On my ar

rival I found that some of the family and guests had

taken tickets for an amateur concert, about to be given

at the Bishop's Palace at Gloucester. I willingly fol
lowed their example (by doing which, however, I after

             345

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                         [1874-77

funds of a Church School!) When, on the appointed

day, we had taken our seats, and were glancing through

the programme, I  was alike pleased and  amused to    find
                  " Mynheer van Dunck                  be
among the pieces                         "-- pleased

cause the music is fine, amused because of the incon

gruity suggested by the words of the glee, which I here
give for the benefit of those who do not know them. If
I recollect rightly, they run thus :--

   " Mynheer van Dunck, tho' he never was drunk, sipped

brandy-and-water gaily; and he quenched his thirst with two
quarts of the first, to a pint of the latter daily ; singing ' Oh

that a Dutchman's draught might be, as deep as the rolling
Zuyder Zee.' "

It struck me that it would be droll to hear these words

amid the ecclesiastical surroundings, sung by a Cathe

dral Choir aided by the Bishop's wife, who was one of the

performers. I was disappointed, however. When the time

came there was a good deal of hesitation and moving

about on the platform, and another glee was sung instead.

A few days later, the Bishop and Mrs. Ellicott were

among the guests at one of the county dinner-parties at

Standish; and, being seated next to Mrs. Ellicott at din

ner, I took occasion to express my regret at the substi
tution: saying that I supposed their courage had failed

them at the last moment. " Oh, not at all " she replied.

" It was simply that we had lost the music." I suspect,

however, that the loss was not accidental; but that the

Bishop, having seen the programme at the last moment,
had " put his foot down," as the Americans say, and

caused the abstraction of the music.

The other incident concerned the Bishop himself.

Being fond of walking, he had, on the day of the dinner

                  346

<Et. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

noon. During a conversation in the billiard-room, refer
ence was made to the fact that I had come down from

London to recruit:       finding   myself unable to work.
" Ah," remarked the      Bishop   to our host, " perhaps it's

quite as well; because otherwise he would have been

promulgating some mischievous doctrine or other."

I replied that, as the Bishop supposed the doctrine I was

setting forth was mischievous, he would, of course, be

prepared to defend the opposite doctrine. His assent to
this I followed up by saying that, as I was then engaged

in writing a chapter showing the great superiority of

monogamy, he was bound to take up the defence of

polygamy. Finding himself thus fixed, the Bishop jest

ingly accepted the situation, and pointed out that at any

rate he would be able to cite the example of the partri-

archs in justification.

   The close of the year was reached without much im

provement in health, and Christmas week, spent with my

friend Lott at Quorn, did not much aid recovery.
Throughout the early spring, too, I struggled with my
work to small purpose. In March, matters were made

considerably worse by an imprudence. I unwisely

yielded to a suggestion to give evidence before the Copy

right Commission, then sitting. Partly by the trouble

taken in preparing my evidence, and partly by the ex

citement attendant on giving it (which I did in great fear

of the consequences, and rushed down to Brighton by
the next train), my nervous symptoms were exacerbated;

and, as may be supposed, they were not much improved
by attending a second time to give further evidence.
At Easter another sojourn at Quorn did but little towards

                         347

                AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                 [1874-77

My friend's partner, a keen fisherman, usually paid one or

two visits to Killin every spring for the purpose of
salmon-trolling on Loch Tay. I was pressed to accom

pany him. Being unable to work, and hoping for bene

fit, I agreed. But the weather was unpropitious. Even

my companion, enthusiast though he was, declined to sit

out in a boat in the midst of bitter East winds with

occasional snow-showers. Three days of this weather

sent me south in disgust ; and, as the following letter to

Lott, dated 16th April, shows, I had no reason to regret
that I was thus driven away: --

" Thanks to Quorn, thanks possibly in some degree to the

few days in Scotland, and thanks to some unknown causes

which I cannot understand, I am considerably better since

my return to town. From time to time one gets rather

shaken in one's determination to be careful in diet &c, by
finding the benefits of carelessness. I continued to be trou

bled by indigestion while in Scotland, and even on my way

back to town. Next day was the X. dinner ; and, contrary

to my habit for a month or six weeks previously, I took a

substantial miscellaneous late meal, with several kinds of

wine. I had no indigestion after               it,and have been excep

                                                      I
tionally well since. This one of the many illustrations of
I
                                                         know no other
                 ;

          II

                                      is
the great effect of mental exhilaration.

cause for this odd change.

   It was well was driven back to town by the weather

when was for, quite contrary to my anticipation, the com

mittee-meeting  for selecting new committee-men was fixed
                IIof after the Rule
before instead                                 election, namely yester
day; and, had
                stayed in Scotland as long as intended, my
                                               it

                                                     I

                                                                              :
plans would have been thwarted. As was, they have an
swered pretty well. We carried eight good men none of

them being of the public-service class, and four of them
                      had fixed upon; -- the others equally
being among those  I

                                          348

iEt. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

   There was a still further reason why I was glad that I
returned when I did; for, on going to the Athenaeum on
Thursday, I found lying there a note from Mr. Gladstone,

asking me to meet Dr. Schliemann at dinner on Saturday.

As you may suppose, I should not have liked to miss it. The

party was a pleasant one. Beyond the guest of the evening

there were present, Lowe, Lubbock, Forsyth (the member
for Marylebone), the Duke of Argyll, Hay ward &c."

   The second of the above paragraphs refers to meas
ures for reinforcing the representatives of Science, Liter
ature, and Art on the committee, with a view of prevent

ing the Rule II. elections from going so largely in favour

of those whose merit was " distinguished public service "
-- a merit which had come to be chiefly found among

retired Anglo-Indian officials. Persisted in for several

years, the course taken completely succeeded, and the

original purpose of the elections under Rule II. was, for

a time at least, fulfilled.

The only further incident of the season to which I may

refer, was my attendance at some of the Wagner con

certs, given in illustration of his musical dramas, at the

Albert Hall. One of my attendances was in company

with some friends who had a box; and, as we came down

stairs, the lady of the party was accosted by an                      acquaint
taoncwe hiwchithhetrhereqpulyeswtioans----""
                                              Well,   how  did you    like it? "
                                                     bore  it pretty  well "--a
                                              Oh, I

reply which went far to express my own feeling.

   Now-a-days it is the fashion to admire Wagner, and

those who care to be in the fashion dare not, I suppose,

say anything in disparagement of him. As the reader

must have pretty clearly seen, it is my habit to say what

I think, though I may so show myself one of a very small

             349

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  I1874-77

ever, the dissentients from the fashion are tolerably

numerous. I discussed the question with the Leweses,

who had been to these same performances ; and though
George Eliot, herself a good musician and a cultivated

judge, said that the music pleased her, yet she confessed it

was lacking in that dramatic character which it especially
aims at -- did not give musical form to the feelings which

the words expressed. I remember observing of two

songs, quite different in the sentiments verbally em

bodied, that the melodies might just as well have been

exchanged. Moreover, I observed that the musical

phrases were very generally of kinds to be anticipated.
They were not like those of true musical inspiration,

which suddenly discloses beautiful combinations one

would never have conceived, but they were of familiar

types.

   On this occasion, as on previous occasions when I lis
tened to Wagner's music, I came to the conclusion that

he was a great artist but not a great musician: a great
artist in the respect that he understood better than other

composers how to marshal his effects. To make a fine

work of art it is requisite that its components shall be

arranged in such ways as to yield adequate contrasts of
all orders: large for the great divisions and smaller for
the sub-divisions and sub-sub-divisions; and that there
shall be contrast not of one kind only but of many kinds.

Wagner, I think, saw this more clearly than his prede

cessors. Complex music as ordinarily written is not suf
ficiently differentiated. Composers for the orchestra
habitually use in combination instruments of all kinds,
having tones with timbres quite unlike in their charac
ters, and tones which are not sufficiently congruous to

35°

^t. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

ing them together, they produce a monotony of general
effect, which would be avoided if there was a more dis

tinct predominance now of tones having this quality, now

of tones having that. Wagner -- certainly in some cases,
but in how many I cannot say -- specialized the uses of his
instruments more than most; and so gave more marked
kinds of effects, each having its distinctive character,

and all of them together constituting a more heterogene

ous whole. I hope that his example will be followed and

bettered.

And now, to my great satisfaction, there came, at the \

end of May and beginning of June, the completion and

publication of the first volume of The Principles of Soci
ology. It had been more than three years in hand: its
progress having been hindered in large measure by ill-

health, and in some measure by digressions. There had,

indeed, been a first issue of the volume early in De

cember 1873 ; but the final chapters, which formed a
somewhat independent portion, were not contained in it.

What prompted the premature issue I cannot now re

member.

This long incubation was in part due to the fact that

the volume was much larger than any of its predecessors.

It extended to nearly eight hundred pages, and con

tained an immense accumulation of facts, the incorpora

tion of which had been a laborious business. Mr. Tedder,

librarian of the Athenaeum Club, who, when the third

edition was in preparation, verified for me all the quota

tions with their references, found that in this first edition
" there
(in the  were 2192    references to  the 379 works quoted"
         new edition  there were "   about 2500 references to

                      351

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-77

aid rendered me by the Descriptive Sociology. Evidently,
had it not been for that compilation, the gathering to
gether of so great a mass of evidence would have been

impracticable.

   With the ending of this volume came a decision to

change my mode of publication. Forty-four numbers of

the serial had now been issued; making, with certain

occasional extra portions which were included, about
three thousand six hundred pages thus covered: a longer
continuance than might have been anticipated. But the

motive for this mode of publication had now become
relatively weak. It is true that, by giving up the distri

bution to subscribers, I sacrificed perhaps some fifty

pounds a year. This sacrifice was, however, of less

moment to me than was the economy of time and atten
tion. Each number of the serial had entailed a set of

transactions with printer, binder, and publisher; and
there were other small worries attendant on the fre

quently recurring issues. To avoid all these evils I

willingly submitted to some pecuniary loss. With No.
44 was therefore sent round a notice of discontin

uance.

   As intimated in a preceding chapter, I eventually

resumed the practice of distributing copies of books to
the press, and did this with the first volume of The Prin

ciples of Sociology. The reasons, which I could not then
give without forestalling the narrative, I am able to give

now. The first was that The Study of Sociology, of which

a qualified copyright was in the hands of the publishers,
was of course sent out by them after their ordinary habit.
The second was that the successive numbers of the
Descriptive Sociology had also to be sent out; since the

352

/Et. 54-57]  VOL. I. OF THE SOCIOLOGY

of the usual course. To have withheld volumes belong

ing to my series while these other volumes were sub
jected to criticism, would inevitably have caused misin
terpretations. Hence I was in a manner compelled again

             66 353

              CHAPTER L.

              A SERIES OF ARTICLES.

              1877--78. Mt. 57--58.

While words are necessary aids to all thoughts save

very simple ones, they are impediments to correct think

ing. Every word carries with it a cluster of associations

determined by its most familiar uses, and these associa

tions, often inappropriate to the particular case in which

the word is being used, distort more or less the image it

calls up. An instance of this is furnished to me by an

incident which occurred when about to commence my

next volume.

Government, conceived apart from any particular

species of    form of control. But, when we think of
            it,
               is
                   a
                                                           a
                                                                                 a
                                                                                   it
                                                                                        is
government, we instantly think of ministry, legisla

ture, laws, and police --we think of that particular kind

of government made dominant in consciousness by the

reading of newspapers and by conversation over dinner-
tables. If, on occasion, we extend the conception of

government so as to include the control exercised over

men by clergy, creeds, and religious observances,

rather by deliberate analysis than by spontaneous asso

ciation that we are led to do this. And neither spon

taneously nor after consideration do we habitually in

clude in our conception of government the regulative

              354

JEt. 57-58]  A SERIES OF ARTICLES

measured by its effects on men's conduct from hour to
hour, this kind of government is more powerful than

any other. While I was not so swayed by current ideas
as to ignore the governmental nature of ceremonies, I

was swayed to the extent of under-estimating its relative
importance. Hence, in the programme of the Synthetic

Philosophy, the divisions III, IV, and V, of the Principles

of Sociology, stood in the order Political, Ecclesiastical,

Ceremonial ; and in this order I was about to write them.

   But the process of reading and arranging my memo
randa brought with it a revelation. There dawned upon
me the truth that political government is neither the
earliest nor the most general; but that, in order of evo
lution, and in order of generality, ceremonial govern
ment precedes it. There are small social groups with
out any kind of political control ; but there are none
without that control which is exercised by established
modes of behaviour between man and man. Even

among the rudest savages there are peremptory rules of
intercourse -- rules more peremptory, indeed, than those
existing among the civilized. Thus it became manifest
to me that Ceremonial Institutions stand first ; and there

was a resulting change in the order of my work.

   In what manner to publish was a question which now
arose. No longer tied to a serial issue, but proposing
to issue the remaining divisions of the Synthetic Phi
losophy in volumes, I still had to choose between certain

alternatives. I might continue writing, and make no
sign until the second volume was completed ; or I might

publish instalments of it in the shape of magazine-

articles.

  This last course was one which I should probably not

                                                  355

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

have thought of, had not a preceding experience sug
gested it. The Study of Sociology made its first appear
ance as a series of articles in the Contemporary Review.

Why should I not in like manner bring out Ceremonial

Institutions chapter by chapter ? In a letter to Youmans,
dated May 26, 1877, I find the following passage refer
ring to the matter: --

  " I think of beginning with the division treating of Cere

monial Institutions, and, in connexion with this, am enter

taining the thought of preliminary publication in chapters.
The subjects will be popular and novel, as well as instruc
tive, and will bear detachment in the shape of magazine-
articles, under the titles of " Mutilations," " Presents,"
" Obeisances," " Salutations," " Titles," " Badges," " Dress

es " &c. I shall probably propose them to Morley for the

Fortnightly, and they would probably suit you also."
   Before anything was settled there presented itself the

further question -- Why should the serial publication be
limited to England and America? Why not publish at

the same time in periodicals on the Continent? Trans

lations of my books had made my name known abroad ;
and it occurred to me as possible that editors would

like to have early proofs of the articles sent them in
time for translation, so that they might be issued in their
respective magazines when they were issued here. My
anticipation proved not ill-founded ; and arrangements

were accordingly made such that, as the successive chap
ters were published in England and America, they were
simultaneously published in France, Germany, Italy,

Hungary, and Russia.

   None of these chapters were, however, as yet written ;

and it was only after the lapse of some six months, occu

pied in preparing them, that the publication thus de

356

iEt. S7-58]           A SERIES OF ARTICLES

During this summer, as during the preceding sum

mer, several picnic water-parties had been given by my
friends the Potters on the Thames above Taplow --

chiefly in the grounds of the Duke of Sutherland, where

a picturesque cottage by the water-side has been pro

vided for those who, on such occasions, obtain permis

sion to use it. Picnics are about the most enjoyable of

social gatherings, and these had been very pleasant.

  Why should not I give a picnic? was a question that

resulted. Entertainments of friends had, up to this time,

been limited, first of all to occasional dinners given at

an hotel ; afterwards to dinners given at the Athenaeum,

which were necessarily restricted to members ; and only

in more recent years, when I had come to have adequate

facilities, at Queen's Gardens. Of course, among the
friends who came to these parties, there were no ladies.

But to a picnic ladies in due proportion might be in

vited. This consideration furnished a motive enforcing

others that arose ; and a picnic was decided upon.

   St. George's Hill, Weybridge, was the place I fixed

upon; and, having obtained permission from Admiral

Egerton to do so, I there, in July, assembled a number
of friends -- between a dozen and twenty I think. The

experiment was a success, but it created considerable
surprise. One of the ladies, I remember, could not re
frain from expressing her astonishment -- " A philoso
                                "
pher,  and   give  a  picnic       She exhibited afresh what I
                              !

have before remarked on : she identified philosophy with

disregard of pains and contempt for pleasures.
   Picnics generally drag a little towards the close; and

to avoid the dragging I adopted the device of changing

the scene. The carriages were ordered to fetch us be

                                   357

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

lands-Park Hotel. After an hour or so spent by some
in playing a game of one or other kind, and by some
in rambling about the grounds, we went indoors for a
" high tea ". The animation was thus kept up to the

last. A like routine was followed on subsequent occa

sions, which recurred annually until my bad health com

pelled desistance.

  A few weeks earlier than this first picnic, I had passed

by Weybridge on my way to Godalming and Witley,
where the Leweses had just bought a country house.
They presently derived much benefit in health from it:

not wholly from the fresh air, but partly from taking to

an outdoor game. Often when at the Priory, I had

urged them not to spend their evenings in reading aloud,

but to find some indoor amusement ; and I suggested a

billiard-table as a resource. They were deaf to my argu
ments. Soon after they bought the house at Witley,

however, a letter from Lewes told me that they had been
following, if not the letter, yet the spirit of my advice,
and had taken to lawn-tennis, with the effect of improv
ing their physical state. It is a great mistake for adults,

and especially for adults who work their brains much,

to give up sports and games. The maxim on which I
have acted, and the maxim which I have often com

mended to my friends is -- Be a boy as long as you

can.

   This mention of a letter from Lewes calls to mind an

earlier one in which he gave me a fact that bears upon

a question recently discussed --the question whether

writers of fiction feel much sympathy with their charac
ters : the consensus of opinion appearing to be that they
do. Certainly George Eliot did. Clear proof was given

358

*r. S7-58]  A SERIES OF ARTICLES

ran :-- " Marian is in the next room crying over the dis
tresses of her young people."

   Two or three incidents of interest dating in the au
tumn of this year, sufficiently justify an account of my

doings during it.

   Rheumatism, which had been troublesome for some
time, prompted me to visit Buxton on my way North.
In the train which took me there about the middle of
July, were Prof. Goldwin Smith and his wife, who were

bound for the same place with a view to benefiting Mrs.
Smith's health. It happened that we went to the same

hotel. The result was that I saw a good deal of them,

and had many pleasant talks during my ten days' stay.

I have never been able to understand him : the manifes

tations of nature on different occasions having been so
widely unlike. When, in 1861, a relapse obliged me to

issue a notice that the next number of my serial must be

postponed, and that subsequent numbers would appear
at irregular intervals, Prof. Goldwin Smith wrote me a
letter of condolence. From him alone, out of 450 sub
scribers, there came this mark of sympathy -- a mark of

sympathy the more surprising, because we were but

slightly acquainted and he was theologically an antago

nist. On the other hand, when, after the Data of Ethics
was published, he commented upon it in the Contem

porary Review, he made misrepresentations so grave,

and, it seemed to me, so inexcusable, that I had to ex

pose them in a subsequent number of that periodical.
How to reconcile the two traits of character thus implied

has always been a puzzle to me. I can only suppose that

he does not perceive the gravity of the statements he

            359

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

   From Buxton I betook myself to Whitby : being

prompted by the prospect of companionship with the
Huxleys, who were about to spend their autumn there.
Unfortunately the greater part of my stay passed before
they arrived ; and the search for ammonites, for which

the place is famed, did not much console me. One inci

dent has remained in my memory, and is worth record

ing. Seating himself at the same table at the hotel one
day, a clergyman of advanced years entered into con
versation with me over our dinner. It turned out that
he had, when young, resided in or near Derby, and had
known my father. This disclosure led to friendly talk,
in the course of which he remarked on the great change

which had taken place in the general state of men's
minds during his life. He said that, whereas in his early

days indifference was the rule, nowadays everybody is in
earnest about something or other. The contrast struck

me as one of great significance.

   An excursion-steamer by-and-by took me to Scar
borough ; whence, after a time, I departed for the North :
staying a day at Edinburgh to see Masson, and then,
after a short pause at Innellan, proceeding to Ardtornish,

where the record shows I arrived on August 15.
   Have I, or have I not, named the fact that yachting

had become one of the recreations at Ardtornish. Mr.
Valentine Smith, to whom the estates had descended
on his father's death, had built himself a fine steam-yacht
of 450 tons burthen, the " Dobhran " (pronounced
Doran, the Gaelic name for a sea-otter) ; and excursions
in this varied the routine of fishing, grouse-shooting, and
deer-stalking. Two extensive ones were made this sea
son, the last of which ended in a catastrophe. Taking

360

/Et- 57-58]  A SERIES OF ARTICLES

ern side of Skye as far as Dunvegan ; and, anchoring in

the loch for the night, had visited the ancient castle,

where the honours were done by Miss McLeod-- a pol
ished old lady whose presence in so wild and remote a

region seemed anomalous. Next day we steamed along
the northern coast of the island, and onwards to Gair-

loch ; and then, taking to a wagonette provided by our
host, we drove along the shore of Loch Maree and
through Glen Torridon: going on board the yacht in
Loch Torridon, where it had been sent round to meet
us. The following morning saw us going South between
the island of Raasay and the mainland ; and now came
the disaster. Mr. Smith and the captain had gone below
to consult the charts before entering Loch Carron : leav
ing the vessel in the charge of the mate, with directions
respecting his course. But the mate, thinking he could
make a short cut, quickly put an end to our cruise. The
following letter to Lott, dated 9 Sept. 1877, tells what
happened :--
" In the papers of about a week ago, you might have seen the
brief account of the wreck of the steam-yacht Dobhran on a
sunken rock near the shore of Applecross. This was the
yacht of my friend here, Valentine Smith. There were eight
of us, besides a crew of 21. We had been cruising about
Skye, Dunvegan, Gairloch, Torridon, and were coming south
to Loch Carron, when the mate brought us to grief. The
vessel struck and heeled over to about 450 forthwith, and
her stern began to sink. We all got into the boats safely in
about five minutes. She is still on the rocks, and the insurers
are trying to raise her and will probably succeed. She cost
about £20,000 and is insured for £15,000."

    Having all got safely into the boats, we hung around
for some time to see what would happen : some of the

             361

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

blow off steam, would explode (but with what reason I

could not understand), and others fearing that she would
slip off the rock and go down. Spite of all protests, Mr.
Smith, with the daring characteristic of the family, in
sisted on going on board again to get the ship's papers
and other valuables; and presently returned, bringing,
among other things, a quantity of wraps for the ladies.
After a time we were taken on to Strome Ferry by an
other yacht, and, our host and his cousin remaining
behind to look after the wrecked vessel, the rest of us

made the best of our way back to Ardtornish. Event
ually the insurers succeeding in getting off the " Do-

bhran ". She was duly repaired and has since led an

active life every season.

   The record kept at Ardtornish shows that I left that
place on Sept. 13, and, I suppose, returned straight to

town.

   During the remainder of the year little occurred call
ing for mention. My daily routine was broken by a

short stay at Wykehurst, and a longer one at Standish,

and there also occurred a visit from my friend Youmans.

A letter to him written on Dec. 17, after his return to
America, contains a quotable passage :--

  " About ten days ago I received from Russia a copy of a
Russian translation of No. I. of the Descriptive Sociology --
" English ". I was at first puzzled to make out what it was --

whether it was the Descriptive Sociology for Russia which

they proposed to undertake, or whether it was a translation ;

but comparison of dates, divisions and names, finally made

it clear that it was a translation. What a go-a-head people
            "
they  are
           !

This was the translation referred to in an extract some

               362

^t. 57-58]      A SERIES OF ARTICLES

time since given, which indicated that the professors of

the University of Kiev were about to undertake it.

Commenting on the mental inertness of most people

here, a Russian once told me that in his country the

young men starve themselves to buy books : a fact which

seems related to that great receptivity which these pro

fessors exemplified. Certainly their proceeding implies

a strange contrast between the appreciation of the De

scriptive Sociology in Russia and its non-appreciation in

Britain.

   Whether it was during this autumn, or whether it was

at an earlier period, that I decided to have a set of my
books permanently bound, I cannot now remember ; but

the incident resulting from the decision remains the

same in either case. " Why should I not treat myself
to copies in handsome bindings?" I asked. So I went

to the binders to consult and order. Various samples

of leather were shown to me. Some I objected to as
unfit in colour -- too gay perhaps, or too sombre ; while
this was too dark, and that too light. At length the
manager, seeing the kind of thing I wanted, put his
mouth to the speaking tube and called --" Mr. Jones,

send me some light divinity calf ". The sample brought

down proved to be just the thing I wanted ; and, accord

ingly, in " light divinity calf " my books were bound.

The year 1878 opened for me with a serious illness. A

letter dated Feb. 16, concerning  I iIt,  quote chiefly be

cause serves to explain the step          took the winter

after: --
I

            it

             I
" Perhaps am the more apt to put this construction on the

matter [inferring Youmans' illness from his silence] because
  have myself been seriously unwell since wrote last. More
                                  I

                363

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

than a month ago, I got one chill upon another, and, mis
managing things, got into a state of pyrexia --pulse high,
temperature over 100-- and passed eleven days indoors: the
most miserable eleven days I remember ; for, upon the whole,

my life thus far has been tolerably free from illnesses that
have kept me within doors. . . .

  As I was saying to the doctor, who has just now left me,

I begin to find more and more difficulty in reconciling the

physical, intellectual, and moral requirements of my life.

More and more each winter there is forced upon me the
experience that five months of bad weather, -- cold, wet,
gloomy, relaxing, by turns -- is trying to my system, and that

I profit greatly by getting away to some sunnier and drier

region on the South Coast of England, and perhaps should
do the like still better on the South Coast of Europe. But

the difficulty of meeting the mental requirements is insuper
able. I cannot take my friends with me ; and in the absence

of ability to pass the time in reading to any extent, I get
dreadfully bored ; so that when I go away for a week, and

have profited by the better sleeping and other physical advan

tages, I always rejoice greatly when the last days come,

enabling me to return to town from my wearisome banish

ment. I really cannot see how I am to manage matters ;

having to choose, on the one hand, between the physical
mischiefs of a winter in London, and, on the other hand,

the delay of work and moral depression resulting from a

winter spent elsewhere, in the absence of friends about me

I care for, and in the absence of those occupations which

enable me to kill time."

   The sequence of this illness was a ten-days stay at

Brighton to recruit. Entries in my diary show that a

fortnight after my return came another week indoors,

implying that my state was still unsatisfactory.
   Two extracts from letters dated respectively May 10

364

Mt. 57-58]  A SERIES OF ARTICLES

the commencement of a task which was slowly com
pleted in the course of some years :--

   " Talking of occupying greater space, I took up a while

since the first volume of the Sociology, and, on beginning
to re-read the earlier part, found that there was much that

could be condensed ; not by omitting anything, but by cutting

out superfluous qualifications and clauses that were entirely

unimportant. I have gone through several chapters, and on
averaging them I conclude that I can economize to some
thing like the extent of three lines a page ; and this will, I

think, effect an abridgment of some 60 or 70 pages on the

whole volume. I feel alike pleased and disgusted with this

result --pleased that there is so much room for improvement,

and disgusted that the improvement is called for."

The second extract concerns a matter of more interest :

to me at least, if not to others :--
   " I think you take in the Revue Scicntifique. Just look at

No. 45, for 11 May, 1878, which I have just received. You
will find in it an Essay by M. Paulhan, entitled " Le Progres,

d'apres M. Herbert Spencer ", which is a review based upon
the translation of the Essay by M. Burdeau. It has for me,
and possibly will have for you, a certain interest as pointing

out what I had forgotten-- the extent to which the general
theory of Evolution, as set forth in First Principles, is indi
cated in " Progress its Law and Cause ", in other directions

beyond the transformation of the homogeneous into the het

erogeneous: how segregation and integration and coherence

are incidentally and vaguely implied ; and how also what he

calls the metaphysical defect is similarly implied. I had not

been conscious, until thus pointed out by this French critic,
that the rudiments of the other parts of this theory of Evolu

tion were lying there in germ ; and the fact is interesting to

note."

Certainly it seems strange I should have needed a critic

            365

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

pressed ideas which I thought were reached in subse

quent years.

   Of occurrences during the season, only one calls for
notice --a visit to Paris, extending from May 18 to May
27, in company with my friend Lott, to see the Inter
national Exhibition, then just opened.

    Paris was unseen by him save through such glances

as he got during a few hours when on his way to join

me in Switzerland in 1853 ; and it was pleasant to play
the guide and participate in his interest. Of course,
joining the chief sights with the contents of the Exhibi
tion, and with the display in the Salon, which opened
while we were there, gave us so much to look at that our

time was overfilled.

   I see by my diary that I did not, during our stay,

desist entirely from such work .as might be done in the

shape of revising. Being able to do so little each day, I

was always reluctant to sacrifice wholly the working

power which each day gave me. I remember correct

ing some MS. when seated in the garden of the Tro-
cadero, while Lott pursued his researches in the annexed

Exhibition Building.
   The chief incident which this visit brought forth, may

be conveniently described in the words of a letter dated

"MIayam30j:u--st back from Paris not the better, but rather the

worse for my excursion. Too much sight-seeing and too
many excitements of one kind or other, have rather knocked

me over, so that I am by no means in working order. I am,

however, better this morning and hope to be able to do

something to-morrow. I send you by this same post a

French paper, Le Temps, from which you will see that I
did not escape, as I had intended to do, from seeing some

                                                  366

'Et- 57-s8]  A SERIES OF ARTICLES

of my Parisian friends. Anxious to avoid all social excite

ments, I postponed calling on Bailliere until I had been in

Paris for a week, and only two days before starting back:

thinking that I should so render impossible the making of

any engagements. However, I was deluded. Within twenty-
four hours he got up the dinner you see noticed, and I had no

escape from it."

   Failure of the reporter to understand my English
speech, made in response to the compliment paid me,

led three French papers to represent me as having pro
posed " Fraternity " as a toast. The statement was

repeated in the English papers ; and, being at once

ludicrous and annoying, I had to publish a letter correct

ing it.

  I regretted that the non-intimation of my presence in
Paris prevented me from seeing Dr. Cazelles --my first

and chief French translator-- who had been drawn from

his home in the South by the International Exhibition ;

and to whom I should have liked to express personally

my thanks for his conscientious labours.

   The successive articles agreed on as above described,

had been coming out in the Fortnightly Review and
other periodicals during the half-year: the first having
appeared in January, and the last in July. Not, indeed,
that the series of chapters proposed to be thus issued
was so concluded ; for there were others which remained.

But no more had a periodical publication.
   The reason for the cessation was that the articles had

not proved as attractive as I expected. I thought that

the genesis of ceremonies of all kinds would be found
not uninteresting, and that, as the illustrations were

             367

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1877-78

pie would be led to give attention. To judge from the

Press-notices, however, this was not so. There was,

indeed, along with the facts cited, now strange and now
amusing, a doctrine set forth -- a theory which served to
link them together. I suppose this element proved re
pugnant. It seemed as if the mass of readers preferred

to have their amusement unadulterated by thought. The

result is shown in the following letter, dated May 15,

1878; which, after describing this lack of interest dis
played, continues --
" Thinking that Morley might be led to regret that he had

undertaken to publish the whole series of chapters, I wrote
to him the other day saying that I thought, from what I saw,

that the series was not successful in respect of popularity ;

and that I did not wish that he should feel himself bound

to fulfil our engagement by occupying his pages with matter

that turned out not to be advantageous ; and that consequently

we would, if he pleased, publish no more. Though himself

apparently surprised at the result, he recognizes the fact to

which I drew his attention; and, thanking me for making

the proposal, which he says he hardly likes to entertain, yet
yields to it if I wish : suggesting, however, the desirability of
publishing the next instalment in his June number -- that is,
the chapter on ' Forms of Address '."

   Five chapters were in consequence of this decision
withheld : some of them already written, and the closing
ones unwritten. The entries in my diary appear to

imply that I completed them before doing anything else ;

or, at any rate, before devoting myself entirely to the

368

                         CHAPTER LI.

                    THE DATA OF ETHICS.

                     1878--79. Mt. 58--59.

  An unusual amount of ill-health experienced during
the winter months of 1877 -- 78, had, even before the ill

ness described in the last chapter, led to serious thoughts
respecting my future ; and these had prompted a pre
cautionary step. On the 9th January, while lying in bed

with a bad cold, I sent for my secretary, and, after dis

posing of a small matter, began dictating memoranda
for the Data of Ethics. My reasons for doing this are
given in a letter dated Feb. 16, 1878, as follows: --

" When I have got through the chapters on Ceremonial

Government, and have also got through those on Ecclesias

tical Government, which I propose to deal with next (not,
however, publishing them in the same way), I have some
idea of writing, and publishing as I am now doing in the

Fortnightly, the first division of the Principles of Morality:
showing how morality is to be dealt with from the Evolu
tion point of view, as the outcome of all preceding investiga

tions. I begin to feel that it is quite a possible thing that I

may never get through both the other volumes of the Prin

ciples of Sociology, and that, if I go on writing them, and

not doing anything towards the Principles of Morality till
they are done, it may result in this last subject remaining
untreated altogether; and since the whole system was at the
outset, and has ever continued to be, a basis for a right rule

                   67 369

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1878-79

of life, individual and social, it would be a great misfortune

if this, which is the outcome of it all, should remain undone.
So that I think of putting together some ten chapters under

the title of the " Data of Morality ", in which the evolu
tionary conception of the subject will be so far clearly set

forth, that the development may safely be left to others, if
I cannot achieve it myself."

   Of course this dictating of memoranda for The Data

of Ethics I was able to carry on only at intervals ; for as
I had committed myself to the series of articles described

in the last chapter, my time was chiefly occupied in writ

ing them. But the ideas to be set forth were gradually

being arranged and developed, as is implied by the fol

lowing extract dated March 13:--
" I have quite decided upon the course I named with regard

to the first division of the Principles of Morality, and, indeed,

am getting a little anxious to undertake it ; for now that I

have for some time been thinking it over, and putting the
ideas into shape, it is taking so satisfactory a form, and so

much more complete a development than I anticipated, that I

shall be glad to set it forth : even apart from the precaution
of avoiding any possible ultimate failure in publication of it.

It will, however, as I think I indicated, be postponed for some

Itime ; inasmuch as have committed myself to writing the
Ecclesiastical division as soon as I have done the Cere
monial. But when that is done I shall take up the Ethical

forthwith."

   Continued during the remainder of the spring, this
elaboration of ideas had the result that when, towards

the close of June, the chapters on Ceremonial Institu

tions were completed, I was ready to begin putting into

shape this new division of my undertaking: the intention
of previously executing the Ecclesiastical division, hav

370

Mt. 58-59]          TEE DATA OF ETHICS

   The latter part of June 1878 was extremely hot : mak
ing one long for a shady place out of doors. Kensing

ton Gardens, only three minutes walk off, fulfilled the

desideratum; and thither I betook myself with my short

hand secretary. Hiring two chairs, we seated ourselves

under the trees, and I dictated for half an hour. Then

we walked about awhile ; after doing which came more

dictating; and so on alternately throughout the morn
ing. In the course of a week the rough drafts of sundry

chapters were thus prepared.
           " rough          "
I     say           drafts      ;  for  I  had  been  led  into  a  mode

of composition unlike that hitherto pursued by me.
Usually my first MS. was also the last, and went to the

printers with my erasures and inter-lineations upon it.

But having in this case commenced by jotting down

memoranda, and having from time to time during the

spring continued this process, I now persisted in it under

a modified form: the memoranda taking a coherent

shape, so as to become a full presentation of the argu
ment. Hence resulted the practice of devoting a " copy
book " to each chapter, and putting it aside with the

intention of using it as a basis for the final dictation.

  I name this fact because of a certain accidental se

quence worth mentioning. One of the " copy-books "

was mislaid ; and when I came to the chapter sketched

out inI          had to re-dictate this without reference to
         I iIt,
what had before said. Some time after the book was

published, found this missing rough draft. A perusal

showed that, besides different presentation of the argu
                    a

ment, contained some illustrations which the chapter
        it

in its finished form did not contain and the perusal also
                                                ;

showed that, though the ideas had been given forth in

an off-hand way, the expression of them was sufficiently

                                   371

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                                           [1878-79

good to make the chapter readable. When preparing

the second edition, I therefore decided to append this

rough-draft chapter just as it stood : merely punctuating

it,and substituting the right words in some few places

         It
where the shorthand writer had put wrong ones by mis

take.        serves to exemplify my mode of expression

when unstudied and unrevised.

Of late years, since the need for economy of time and

labour has become so manifest, there has sometimes oc

curred to me the question --Why not do the rest of my

books in this easy and rapid way so as to get the ideas
       I

                                if
                                                                          ;
                                                                                                     ?
set forth in some shape, not in the best shape More

than once have tried to dictate permanent work after

the suggested manner, but have completely failed. The

rough drafts above described were dictated in the belief

that they were rough drafts --were not to be printed;

and the facility resulted from this belief. As soon as
             I

                                    is

                                    I
                                             I

                                                       II
begin to dictate in the same manner with the conscious

ness that what am doing to be final, am hindered

by self-criticism. Flowingly as may commence,

quickly find the current of my composition checked by
pausing to weigh this sentence or that expression, until

presently drop down to my ordinary rate.                                                                pro
       I
                       I

                                                       It

                                                                          is
                                                                                      a
voking difficulty, which see no way of surmounting.

   Neither anecdote, nor adventure, nor scientific obser

vation, affords reason for giving much space to details
of my life in the North this autumn.

   Leaving town on the 25th July, passed few days
at Liverpool with the Holts. My chief recollection of

the visit that spent the mornings in wandering about
Sefton Park (on the border of which Mr. Holt's house
       is

             Ia
                                    I

                                                                             a

             372

/Et. 58-59]  THE DATA OF ETHICS

my arm, and occasionally sitting down to read portions
of it. The motive for this is implied in the following
extract from a letter written on July 5 :--

   " At intervals during the Spring, and more especially of
late, I have been sketching out in the rough the division

which I named to you -- the Data of Ethics, which I am, as I
said, intending to write and publish before I go further with

the Sociology. This rough outline is now mainly done:

being complete in chapters and sections of chapters, each of

which is sketched out. I shall finish it before leaving Town,

and then, taking it with me, along with sundry books to be

consulted, I shall devote myself while away to the re-elab

oration of it before proceeding finally to write ".

   From Liverpool I departed for Inveroran, where three

weeks were spent with but moderate success in catching

salmon, and considerable success, I suppose, in reading
and revising, if I may judge by the time devoted to it;

for my diary shows that there was but little fishing

weather. Why I left for the South on the 19th I do not
understand, for an entry on the 17th tells me that I

hooked and lost four salmon in succession ; proving that

there was no lack of fish in the river. Nor do I under

stand what prompted me to make a detour into the Island
of Arran on my way South. Two days were spent at

Brodick; and, that time having sufficed me, I returned
to London, which I reached on the 23rd August. Per

haps a desire to get to work again chiefly moved me thus

to abridge my absence to less than a month.

   But it seems I was not satisfied with this half-holiday.

There shortly came a supplementary one, as shown by
the following extract dated Sept. 27 :--

" Your letter of Sept. 3 reached me at Lyme Regis, where I
have been spending the last ten days with the Busks. I had,

             373

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1878-79

weeks here before going away again; so that I was able to
take away a sufficiency of MS. to occupy me in revision. I

arrived back last night and am now setting to work again."

   One of the incidents of my stay at Lyme Regis was
a visit to the remarkable landslip, about six miles to the
west, where a tract some quarter of a mile long and
many acres in area, bearing a house, slid bodily forward
over the shore into the water; leaving inland a vast
chasm of perhaps fifty yards wide and thirty or forty feet

deep.

   As my beliefs are at variance with those expressed in

burial-services, I do not like attending funerals, and giv
ing a kind of tacit adhesion to all that is said. But I am

compelled to make exceptions, and made one towards

the close of this year ; partly because my absence would

have been generally misinterpreted, and partly because

it might have given pain to one whose feelings I should

have been very reluctant to hurt, though probably she

would have understood my motive. The funeral I refer

to was that of my friend Lewes, which occurred on the

4th of December.
   His death ended a domestic union of nearly twenty-

five years' duration. One might have expected that the
expressions used in the dedications of George Eliot's

MSS. to him, would have sufficed as proofs of his de-

votedness. But there are not a few who, in such cases,

gladly find occasion for unfavourable comment, or
assume occasion if they cannot find it; and most peo

ple have no scruples in circulating adverse statements

without asking for evidence. So far as I saw (and I had

many opportunities of seeing) they exceeded any mar

374

Ex. 58-59]  THE DATA OF ETHICS

ionship; and his studious care of her was manifest. I

remember that on one occasion when, perhaps during

a temporary mood, I had been saying that though pos
sessed of so many advantages I valued life but little, save

for the purpose of finishing my work, they both of them
ascribed my state of feeling to lack of the domestic affec
tions, and simultaneously exclaimed that their great sor
row was that the time would soon come when death

would part them.

  In the brief characterization of Lewes which I gave in
an early chapter of this volume, I omitted two allied

traits which ought to be mentioned. One of them was
that he was studiously fair in his criticisms, alike of
friends and of foes. Bias in another's favour did not

prevent him from indicating such faults as he recog
nized ; and antagonism did not prevent him from accord
ing praise for merit, where it existed. The other was
that in controversy he was exceptionally open-minded.

Of all those with whom I have had discussions, I cannot

remember one who, when he saw that a position was
untenable, would with such entire candour avowedly

surrender it. Though he had plenty of amour propre, it
did not prevent him from yielding to a conclusive argu
ment -- did not induce him to go on fighting, as most
men do, after they are conscious that they are wrong.

Later in December came the preparations for a change

foreshadowed in the last chapter. Already to a letter

I have quoted concerning my health, there came from

Youmans a response the nature of which is implied in
                                      13 :--
the   rejoinder I made on March               with  regard  to win
   "  I wish I could follow out your  advice

            375

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1878-79

friend about whom I care anything to join me; and it is

quite out of the question to go alone. That you should

propose to make a sacrifice of the kind you so generously
indicate, is quite in harmony with your nature, and your

interest in the end to be achieved ; but you must not suppose

that there are many others who have like feelings, and
would be ready to do like things. However I shall make an

effort next year, if I can manage to conform such an arrange

ment with the progress of my work, to carry out this scheme."

  IOn July 5, in a letter partially quoted already,

wrote :--
  " I have pretty well decided to spend my next winter in

the South of Europe. My experiences year after year, and

especially this year, have impressed me more and more with

the fact that our winter is very injurious to me; and is

injurious because my powers of making vital heat, naturally

not high, have fallen so much below par. One of the evi

dences of how much I fail in maintaining my vital heat,

which has long struck me, has been that, far from finding a

hot bath enervating, as many people do, it always gives me

a better appetite : showing that the exaltation of the func

tions due to a gratis supply of heat, enables me to carry on
my physiological business better. Quite recently I have had
still clearer evidence of this ; for a fit of hot weather which
we had lately, did me very great good --increased my appe

tite and improved my digestion, and in all respects made me

better. So that I see that my health and power of working

for the future, will depend very much on avoiding the evils

which the winter's cold entails upon me."

  A passage from a letter dated Sept. 27, shows what
was about to happen :--

  " I was delighted to find that my suggested intention of

going to the South of Europe to spend some of the winter
months, raised in you the thought of accompanying me ; and

376

Sx- S«-S9]  THE DATA OF ETHICS

   Accordingly, on Dec. 17, my American friend arrived

in London. Starting on the 20th for Paris ; spending

two days there to arrange for the translation of The Data
of Ethics; and halting for a day at Lyons to rest; we
reached Hyeres on Christmas eve.

   After leaving the gloom and inclemency of a London

December, it was delightful, on Christmas morning, to
saunter about the garden of the Hotel des lies d'Or, and
hear the buzzing of the flies in the sunshine -- a sound

so strongly associated with the glow of a summer's day.

It was pleasant, too, to pass from trees black and bare,
to trees and plants in full leaf, native and introduced --

the eucalyptus, the palms, the aloes, which are becom
ing so abundant along the Riviera as greatly to mask

the indigenous vegetation.

  Speaking of aloes reminds me that I observed one

which, having lately sent up its vast flower-stalk, had

drooping and shrunken leaves ; and this suggested a
good question that might be put to those who are study
ing plant-life after a rational manner: the question,
namely -- What are the conditions which make it profit

able to the aloe-species to postpone flowering so long?
Young people should always have in their minds prob
lems to be solved concerning the phenomena of the sur

rounding world, and of human life. A boy or girl rising
in the teens, might with advantage be asked -- How hap

pens it that in hilly counties, such as Devonshire, the
lanes are deep down below the surfaces of the adjacent
fields ; whereas in flat countries the surfaces of the lanes

and of the fields are on the same level? What is the

definite and unmistakable distinction between running

            377

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1878-79

beings do, by sucking in the water; whereas dogs and
cats drink by lapping? What is that adjustment of the
parts of the eye which gives the infantine stare, as con
trasted with that adjustment which gives the calm gaze
of the adult? What advantage does a plant get from
having a hollow stem or stem filled with pith ? and why
is this advantage, which many short-lived plants avail
themselves of, unavailable by trees, save when young
and afterwards in their shoots? Why, in a river, is the

water next a convex shore usually shallow, and the bot

tom often sandy ?

   A teacher who understood his business would be con

tinually devising questions of these and countless other
kinds, to which no answers could be found in books, and
would persistently refuse to give the answers: leaving
the questions to be puzzled over for years if need were.
The mental exercise which solving one such question
implies, is of more value than that implied by a dozen

rote-learnt lessons.

   Details of our seven-weeks' sojourn on the Riviera

are not called for. I had left a quantity of MS. with

the printer, and had taken a further quantity with me to

revise. My mornings up to the time of the dejeuner I

devoted to correcting MS. and proofs ; while the after

noons were spent, weather permitting, in saunterings

and explorations.

   On New Year's day we left Hyeres for Cannes ; and,
after a pleasant week there we passed on to Nice, or
rather to Cimiez-- a little place on the high ground some

three miles inland. A post-card to Lott written thence
on Jan 15, says something about our experiences: --

378

Mt. 58-59]  THE DATA OF ETHICS

 Now sitting crouching over the fire with great coat and cap

 on, and piling rugs on the bed at night, and now walking
in bright warm sunshine, seeing butterflies about and peas
 six feet high in blossom, and being obliged to use mosquito

cutrains !

    We have been at Hyeres and Cannes for a week each, and

on Friday shall go on to Mentone, to which place I went

yesterday " prospecting " and was delighted with it."

    On the 17th a charming drive along that beautiful
part of the Corniche road lying East of Nice, took us

to Mentone ; and there we settled : both of us preferring

the place to any of the others, chiefly because of its sur

prizing number of picturesque walks. Of course we

made expeditions. There was a trip to Monaco and

Monte Carlo to see the gambling-tables, where the faces

of the players were less repulsive than I had expected.
A day was spent at Ventimiglia. During an absence of

two days we visited Bordighera and San Remo. And
there were smaller excursions to places near at hand --

Roquebrune and Eza.

   Concerning this last place, to which I went alone (for

Youmans was not equal to much exertion), something

may be said. Already from the Corniche road we had
looked down upon its truncated peak of rock, and clus

ter of habitations on the top ; and now I climbed up to

it from the railway-station near the sea-side. The climb

occupied me more than an hour; for I sat down occa

sionally to rest and do a little revising. But the sight
of its curious interior well repaid me for the climb.
With its irregular dwellings huddled together chaotic

ally around narrow streets and passages and archways

like tunnels, it may be compared to the oldest part of
one of our oldest provincial towns, in course of being

            379

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                               [1878-79

est part there is a ruined stronghold, in which I sat

down. After contemplating awhile the magnificent

panoramic view, I took out a portion of The Data of

Ethics, and spent half an hour upon it; and, remember

ing what the place had witnessed during the times when
it was a refuge for the people of the district, and during
other times when it was held by the invading Saracens,

I was struck by the odd contrast between the purposes to
which it was then put, and the purpose to which I was

putting it.

  By the middle of February my friend and I found rea
sons for returning: I, because I had got through all the
MS. I had brought with me, and he, because he longed

for home. We reached London on the 17th; and, after

remaining with me a fortnight he departed for America.

Writing on Feb. 19 to Lott I said :--

   " The excursion was a success as being an escape from the

terrible winter you have had here, though not so satisfactory
absolutely. One-third rainy days, one-third dull days, one-

third bright days, describes the weather approximately. Still,
the change was beneficial in some respects and enjoyable;

and as I did my full stint of work or rather more, and have
come back perhaps a little better than I went, I am content."

This description of the unsatisfactory weather is, I find,

an over-statement. My diary shows that the fine days

were slightly in excess of the rest.

Save a week's visit to Quorn at Easter, nothing oc

curred to vary the even tenor of my life until the begin

"ninFignioshf eJudneth;eonDatthae  7th of which  month I find  the  entry
                                   of Ethics ".  The printers  had  been

at my heels all through the Spring ; so that now, when

                                   380

/Et. 58-59 j                  THE DATA OF ETHICS

remained only to pass the last sheets through the

press.

   This small task was not, however, completed in Lon

don, but near Salisbury ; where I had been invited to

spend a few days at Wilton House, with the kind inten

tion of benefiting my health. Had I thought of
              it
                                                                             is

                                                          of iIt,
might have corrected the closing pages of The Data

Ethics in the groves where Sir Philip Sidney said to

have composed his Arcadia; but attractive though the

grounds are, did not then occur to me to take my

work out of doors. A little time only being occupied in

looking through proofs, the rest was spent partly in

drives and walks accompanied by somewhat too much

conversation for my welfare, and partly amidst an agree

able circle of Whitsuntide guests. have often regretted
                              a
that the health of our host has not allowed him to takeis

more prominent part in public life; where the philanI
Ia
      ;Ithropic nature he inherits, joined with clear intellia
                                                   a
                           agence, might have done conspicuous service.
                                                             of
Shortly after my return to town The Data                         Ethics

was issued, and met with more favourable reception

than had been accustomed to. More endeavour was

made than usual to give some idea of the contents of the

work and especially in one instance, clear and succinct

account of its argument was set forth. A curious com

mentary on current criticism supplied by the fact that

was, after nearly thirty years experience of surprizedit,

to meet with case in which the reviewer did that which

                              38i

                      CHAPTER LII.                          it,

               CEREMONIAL INSTITUTIONS.                                 it I

                         1879. Mt. 59.

   As the articles named in the last chapter but one were
all nearly completed, though not all published, before
The Data of Ethics was seriously commenced, why was

not the volume on Ceremonial Institutions, constituted by

these articles, published first ? Was I so anxious to write
The Data of Ethics that I could not even delay to pass

Ceremonial Institutions through the press ? These ques
tions at first puzzled me; and it was only after some

consideration that I saw what had happened.
   At the time when I made the resolve to write The Data

of Ethics forthwith, lest it should never be written at all,

my intention was to publish the second volume of The
Principles of Sociology as a whole, according to pro

gramme. As the chapters dealing with Ceremonial In
stitutions formed but the first division of they were
consequently laid aside until the other divisions should
be written. On returning to the subject, however,

reflected that as the volume was to contain five divisions,
treating respectively of Ceremonial, Political, Eccle
siastical, Professional, and Industrial Institutions,

                                                  382

JEt. 59]  CEREMONIAL INSTITUTIONS

ganically connected with the rest, each division has a

sufficient degree of independence to admit of separate
treatment ; each division will form a volume of sufficient
size; and, further, each division will have more chance
of being bought and read than did it form a part of one
large expensive volume. Moreover, if the paging was
made to run consecutively through these successive di
visions, they could be bound into one volume when all

were issued.

   Once entertained, the thought of making this change
of plan quickly ended in action; and, soon after The Data

of Ethics was through the press, I took the requisite steps.

   The season, verging towards its close when this hap

pened, brought no further incident worthy of mention.

A letter, however, dated 26 June, names a fact which, I

suppose, ought not to be omitted: --
" You will, I daresay, be somewhat surprised so soon again to
have a letter from me ; but I have just received a piece of

news of a satisfactory kind which you will be glad to have.

. . . It is contained in a letter just received from Ribot.
   ' I have the pleasure of informing you that, by official

resolution of the Minister of Public Instruction, your prin

cipal works (First Principles, Principles of Biology, &c.)
are henceforth to be placed at the disposal of the pupils of
the Lyceums, and may be given to them as prizes. This
resolution is the result of efforts to this end which I have

long made in company with some friends (MM. Marion,

Maspero, &c.) who are, like me, members of the Ministerial
Commission which selects books. There were animated dis

cussions over each of your works. We have nevertheless

had a majority (the Commission is composed of about forty
members), excepting the work on Education, which has been

          383

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                                                          [1879

dislike for classical studies ". At the same time it has been
decided that this book may be given to students who are
about to leave the Lyceum. These resolutions apply to the
whole of France.' "

   I feel that the quoting of this passage is in somewhat

questionable taste; and yet to say nothing about the en
dorsement it describes would be to leave out an occur

rence of some significance.

   A biographer, or autobiographer, is obliged to omit

from his narrative the common-places of daily life, and
to limit himself almost exclusively to salient events,
actions, and traits. The writing and reading of the bulky
volumes otherwise required, would be alike impossible.
But by leaving out the humdrum part of the life, form
ing that immensely larger part which it had in common
with other lives, and by setting forth only the striking
things, he produces the impression that it differed from
other lives more than it really did. This defect is in

evitable.

   Consciousness of and the desire to diminish have

helped to make me persist in noting my various absences
from town, and in many cases giving accounts of their
doings; since, being parts of the life which might as
well have belonged to other lives, they tend to assimilate

   to other lives. Not, indeed, that have done this ex
haustively. Partly by intention, and partly because there
was no diary to bring them before me, nor references
in correspondence to remind me of them, have left out
many of the least important of my relaxations -- short
sojourns at Brighton, and others at Eastbourne, Hast
ings, Folkestone, Tunbridge Wells, Sevenoaks; as well
it
                                   it,

                                       I

                                                      I

                                                                                     it,

384

jEt. 59]       CEREMONIAL INSTITUTIONS

Wykehurst, Aldermaston, and longer ones to Standish

and Quorn. But if the reader will conceive that the
breaks in my London routine, already shown to be fre

quent, were still more frequent, it will suffice.

   Instead of indicating in the same way as heretofore my

doings in the autumn of this year, I may copy verbatim

my diary during the period, or, at any rate, during the

greater part of it: so giving the reader a clearer idea

how my holidays were spent than any description

would do.

"July 30th. Left Euston Station by the 8.50 limited mail

for Stirling.  31st. Stirling at 7.50. Inveroran about 3.
Aug. 1st. Began fishing at 11, ended at 5. Got 3 salmon --one
17 lb., one of 15 lb. and one 10 lb.-- all in the Island-pool.

2nd. Revising Ceremonial Government in morning. After

noon fishing; river gone down; no sport.       3rd. Revising
Ceremonial Government most of the day -- foot blistered and

could not walk much.      4th. Revising Ceremonial Govern

ment ; short walks.   5th. Revising and short walks. 6th.

Revising; some rain; river higher; fished from 12 to 5--
                      7th. River low -- reading, revising, and
one salmon 16 lb.

walking.       8th. Reading, revising, and walking.      9th.

Reading, revising, and walking.  10th. Reading, revising,

and walking.         nth. Left at 10J; Tyndrum at 12J; left at

1 ; got to Oban at 6j -- Craigard Hotel ; met Lingards.  12th.

Left at 7 by Skye-boat ; Loch Aline at 8 J ; and Ardtornish at

9J ; afternoon, netting in Loch Arienas and picnic with the

ladies there.  13th. Revising, walking, and drive to old

Ardtornish in afternoon.  14th. In the yacht Dobhran up

Loch Sunart to Strontian ; back by 9 o'clock.      15th. Started

at 8 in the Dobhran to Staffa; fine day; explored cave; back

by 6J.     16th. Walking, and revising, and reading.     17th.

Walking, revising, and reading.  18th. Started in Dobhran

up Loch Linnhe ; saw two stags stalked and shot by V. Smith ;

on to Loch Corrie and Loch Leven; back at 8.       19th. Fish
                  68 385

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                          [1879

ing on Loch Arienas; 14 sea-trout and 12 loch-trout in 5

hours.  20th. Revising, reading, and walking.               21st.

Fishing on Loch Arienas ; no sport.   22nd. Revising, walk

ing, and playing lawn-tennis.         23rd. Excursion in the

Dobhran to Loch-na-Kiel, in Mull. In the sound saw a

whale about 50 ft. long [which accompanied us for a mile or

more].  24th. Revising, billiards, and walking; went to

Old Ardtornish    in afternoon.        25th. Fishing from   11 to 5
in river; 6 sea                       one 2 lbs.; missed 4  salmon.
                 trout--one 5 lb.
26th. Fishing in river n to 5 ; got 2 salmon --one 7 lb., one 6

lb. ; and lost a third.  27th. Revising and walking.        28th.

Fishing from 11 to 3 ; 3 sea-trout -- one of 2 lbs.   29th. Re

vising and walking ; afternoon to Acharn with the ladies.

30th. Revising and walking.           31st. Revising and walking

to Old Ardtornish in afternoon.       Sept. 1st. Revising, very

wet; in all day.         2nd. Ditto.  3rd. Ditto; packing up.

4th. Left for Oban by the Plover at 2 ; Oban at 4 ; met E. Lott

and Phy at the Craigard; evening with them.           5th. At 8

left by Chevalier; reached Glasgow 7.40.             6th. At 10.20

left for Edinburgh; there at 11.50; left at 2.30; Galashiels at

3.30; Laidlawstiel at 4.30."

Here follows a week's record ; chiefly of walks and drives
with host or hostess. Then there is a journey to Rus-
land near Windermere, to join the Potters; where an
other week was spent -- now in some unsuccessful fishing
in the Leven, now in excursions to Barrow and Carpmel,
and now in climbing hills and rambling over moors.
After which, on the 20th September, comes the jour

ney home.

  Perhaps I should explain that there had been no per

manent migration from Standish. The timber-importing

firm, of which my friend was the leading partner, in

addition to their place of business at Gloucester, had

                              386

iET. 59]  CEREMONIAL INSTITUTIONS

finding it needful to be near Barrow for some months in
the autumn, he had taken Rusland Hall furnished.

   The foregoing extracts from my diary imply that a
good deal had been done during my vacation; and the
following passage from a letter dated Laidlawstiel shows
the result :--

" I have been revising the chaps, on Ceremonial Institutions,
and shall go to press as soon as I get back. Probably I

shall publish by the end of November."

   Some extracts from letters written shortly after, which
have interests of several kinds, may be added. The first

is dated October 1.
" I heard yesterday from John Evans some lines [of his own]
which have become current, summing up the moral of All-
man's address at the Association. They are as follows :

             ' 'Twixt life and consciousness the chasm,

                Cannot be bridged by protoplasm ;

             All flesh is grass, yet chlorophyl
              Can All man's duties not fulfil.' "
It rarely happens that a pun has the peculiarity that it is
not only true either way, but has the same kind of truth
both ways. The next extract is from a letter written

on Oct. 8.
   " Mrs. Lewes, in writing to me about the Data of Ethics,

expressed her anxiety that I should forthwith finish the

Ethics, rather than return to the Sociology; but, though it

would be important to do this, I feel that there is still

greater importance in forthwith dealing with Social Evolu

tion under its political aspect, even if under no other."
   In a letter two days later in date there is a passage

of which the significance will appear hereafter.

  " While away in the country this time, I have been so

          387

                                AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                     [1879

ism, and the profound antagonism between the two which

comes out more and more at every step in my Sociological

inquiries, and I have been so strongly impressed with the re-

barbarization that is going on in consequence of the return

to militant activities, that I have come to the conclusion that

it is worth while to try and do something towards organizing
an antagonistic agitation. We have, lying diffused through
out English society, various bodies and classes very decidedly
opposed to which think merely want bringing together
a                               I
                a a it,
to produce powerful agency, which may do eventuallya
good deal in civilizing direction. The Nonconformist body;a ;
                                                                     I
as whole, through its ministers, has been manifesting antia                    a

war feelings very strongly the leading working-men, as was

shown at the late Sheffield Congress, are quite alive to theis a
                                                          a
mischief; the Secularists as body will go in the same direc
tion so will the Comtists so will considerable number
of rationalists; so will considerable sprinkling of Liberal
politicians and so will even certain proportion of the ad
I
            ;
                             ;
vanced Churchmen, such as Hughes, and of the clerical body.
  have talked to several about the matter -- Rathbone, mem

ber for Liverpool, Harrison, Morley and others -- and am

about to take further steps. There                           decided sympathy

felt by all have named and think that                        it      important to
        I                                                        is

move."        if

              I
                                                ;
                                I
Probably,                       had duly borne in mind the general

principle of the specialization of functions, should have
                                                             I

seen that my function was to think rather than to act,

and should have never entertained the intention here

indicated.

   During the short period covered by the title of this

chapter, nothing further occurred calling for mention.
   In respect of punctuality, printers are not more praise

worthy than other men of business. Delay in the re

                                388

JEt. 59]  CEREMONIAL INSTITUTIONS

delay in the receipt of coats and boots is a standing
grievance with men at large. In this case, however, the
printers proved unusually virtuous; and my anticipation
above expressed, that Ceremonial Institutions would be
ready for publication by the end of November, was more
than fulfilled; for the book was nearly through the press
before many days in November had passed.

   But now, while the last sheets were passing under my
eyes, came an event which changed the course of my life
for the next three months. So marked a break may fitly

          389


               PART XI.

  LIU. Up the Nile.
  LIV. Ending of the Descriptive Sociology.

  LV. Political Institutions.

  LVI. A Grievous Mistake.
LVII. Coming Events.
LVIII. A Visit to America.
  LIX. Conclusion.


CHAPTER LIII.

UP THE NILE.

1879 --80. 2Et. 59.

  One morning at the close of October, I received from

a young lady a note saying --" Will you not come and bid

me good-bye before I start for Egypt? " Of course I

went forthwith.

  Already I had been telling my friends that if I could
get fit companionship I would again spend the winter in

the South. Egypt was a country to be visited; and as

I was now fifty-nine, there was not much time to be lost
if I meant ever to see it. What instead of saying good

bye, should become one of the party!
I
          I

                                a
                                               if,

                                                          a
                                                               it
                                                                                  aa

                                                                                                                                          :
The party found consisted of clergyman, his wife,

and the young lady in question; and had been ar

ranged that each of the ladies should choose gentle

man who, added to the rest, would make up number

sufficient to occupy dahabeyah and share the cost the

intention being that the selections should be made from
those in the hotel at Cairo. How the matter came about

do not remember but was soon perceived that en
I

                                                         ;

                                        it

                                                            a

                                                         I II
                                                               I
tertained the thought of joining; whereupon                                                                                                  was

pressed to do so. As the pressure was added to by the

father of the young lady, who happened to be present,
felt inclined to yield. Not then deciding, however, took

time to consider whether such journey might be under

393

             AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                      [1879-80

next day assented to the proposal. An immediate de

parture in company with the three was obviously im

practicable ; for I had more than a week's revision to do on

the last sheets of Ceremonial Institutions. But as they

were going all the way by sea, and as I proposed to go
by land as far as Brindisi, it was clear that I should be
able to reach Cairo as soon as they did, though I started

a week later. With this understanding we exchanged

our temporary farewells.

  During the time the negociation was pending, I said

it was a pity that the party did not include one of the

young lady's sisters. This remark was repeated in a

letter  thoetrhethmeothqeures; tiaonnd--, a"  day or  two  later,  there came
from      "                                   Will    you  take     charge of

H       ?    Naturally  nothing could please me better than

to have such a travelling companion ; and, telegraphing

at once an affirmative answer, I rushed off to Leaden-

hall Street to engage a berth for her. A bustling in

terval after the young lady's arrival in town, was followed

by our departure on the nth November.

   Details of the journey need not be given. Suffice it to

say that, while crossing the Channel, we made the ac

quaintance of a gentleman and his wife who were also

bound for Cairo; and I was enabled to put my charge

under the lady's wing: so absolving myself from much

of my responsibility; which was a great satisfaction.

Our stopping places were Paris, Turin, Bologna (where
we had nearly two days to spare) and Brindisi; leaving

which last place by the P. & O. steamer, we reached

Alexandria on the 20th and Cairo the same evening.

   A good deal of merriment was caused by an occur

                        394

Ex. 59]                UP THE NILE

arrangements in pursuance of which I brought with me

an additional member of were made after the depart
                                  it,
                                                                         a
ure of the original group. They went by private

steamer bound from Liverpool to Port Said; and they

were, of course, in ignorance of what had happened. A

passage written from Cairo on Nov. 23, thus narrates the
consequences --

   " H and after prosperous journey, arrived here
             :

               I,

                               a

nearly three days ago. We got here two days before her

sister, whom we were to join, and who had no notion that

she was coming Last night, on her sister's arrival, we
             ;
had an immense joke. H!                       was dressed up as Turkish
                                                it
lady, with black veil just showing her eyes.it          took
                                                      I
                                    a                              a
                                             a
                                                                 E
to show her her room; and, on entering the ante-chamber,

explained to her that for night or so, would be needful

to share the double room with this Turkish lady, whom, as

II  assured her, she would find nice creature, and to whom

    then proceeded to introduce her. H                  drawled out some

broken French and was great fun to watch, first                             E

                                                                                         's

horror and disgust at the prospect before her, and then her

astonishment as the truth was disclosed.

    The sunny weather  charming, but thus far find my
                       is

                                      I

                                                        it

                                                       I
sleep much worse instead of better.             hope may be other

wise after while.
         aa
    The population here shocks me greatly. Very picturesque,

but poor ragged, dirty, diseased.               am eager to get away
                                  a

                                        I

                                                    is
on to the Nile; hoping to see less concentrated form of the

misery of long-decaying civilization."

- That this experience was unique                       not likely; but

there cannot have been many who have had the oppor

tunity of introducing one sister to another in disguise,
two thousand miles away from home.

    A fortnight in Cairo, partly spent in making arrange

                                             395

        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                    [1879-80

ments for our inland voyage, and otherwise in sight
seeing, now followed. To myself it brought not much
satisfaction. An imprudent meal at Alexandria estab

lished a long fit of indigestion, producing, as my diary

tells me, a succession of wretched nights.

   One result was that when, after a few days, we made

an expedition to the Pyramids, I felt too much enfeebled

to attempt the ascent, and had to content myself with

rambling about their bases and inspecting the adjacent
remains. The entry in my diary describes me as " much

impressed." Perhaps even more than the Great Pyra

mid, the thing which impressed me was the tomb-temple

in which we picnic'd. It is built of large polished granite

blocks, so accurately fitted as not to have needed any

mortar. Egyptologists say it is of greater antiquity than

the pyramids themselves! More than anything else I

saw, this ancient structure made me feel the mystery

which enshrouds the earliest Egyptian civilization known

to us.

   It is needless to describe our visits to the mosques of
Sultan Hassan and Mohammed Ali, the Tomb of the

Kings and the Cemetery, the mosque of Talou, the Arab

University, the howling dervishes and dancing dervishes,

and a moonlight ride to the Tombs of the Caliphs. Suf

fice it to say that more or less daily sight-seeing re

lieved the long-drawn negotiation with a dragoman and
the choice of a dahabeyah; for in the East, business-

transactions, accompanied by much giving and receiv

ing of presents, are exasperatingly slow.

During this interval the ladies of the party were taken

to be presented to the Sultana  that the title of the
        it
                       (if
                                     is

                                                                      a
Khedive's wife); and was proposed to me to make

        396

Mt. 59]  UP THE NILE

the proposal was made; but I greatly astonished the

gentleman by declining, and by giving as my reason

that I did not care for introductions which led to noth

ing. I have a great aversion to mere ceremonial inter

views.

   By the end of a fortnight matters had been settled,

and there remained only to stock the dahabeyah with
the needful supplies. My friends amused themselves by

rambling through the bazaars buying oriental knick-

knacks ; but as I had no taste for them (I brought back

nothing but photographs) this distraction was not avail

able. Hence I was a good deal bored. One of the things
I did to pass the time was to make an excursion to a

suburban watering place.

   This place was Helouan, some dozen miles from Cairo,
on the border of the Eastern Desert, where the exist
ence of sulphuretted springs had led the late Khedive to
attempt the establishment of a resort for visitors; not,

however, with much success, for the place lacked

attractions.

  Clearer ideas of a desert were obtained than I before
had; but that which I chiefly remember is that for the
first time I perceived the nature of an " after-glow."

Egypt is a land in which fine sunsets are habitual -- not
sunsets of that gorgeous kind in which clusters of clouds

are splendidly lighted up, for there are not commonly

the clouds required; but sunsets fine in the sense of pre
senting a brightly illuminated Western sky. From the
clearness and dryness of the air, it further results that
habitually (as occasionally in our own climate in frosty
weather), just as sunset is taking place, the Eastern por

         397

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1879-80

becomes red. Evidently its redness is due to the fact
that along with those rays which, reaching the observer,
yield to his eyes the bright red of the western sky, there

go the rays which pass by him and fall on the haze in
the lower part of the Eastern sky. Now this illuminated

haze, visible to him by reflected light, must be visible by
transmitted light to people living several hundred miles
below the Eastern horizon; and to them it constitutes
an " after-glow." Verification is obtained by watching
what takes place. As the sun goes below the Western
horizon, there may be observed on the Eastern horizon
(which the flatness of the desert makes visible in Egypt)
a grey band, due to that portion of the Eastern haze
which does not catch the red rays from the West. As
the sun descends further below the Western horizon, this

grey band broadens ; and, at the same time, the red haze
above it ascends and broadens. This process continues
until eventually the red haze, becoming fainter as it
broadens and rises higher, is lost in mid-heaven; where,
of course, the thickness of illuminated haze, as seen from
below, is insufficient to cause appreciable colour. Pres
ently, on the other side of the heavens, this process is
reversed. The diffused and faint red light extending
high up, gradually descends, narrows, becomes brighter,
and ends in an " after-glow".

   On the morning of Dec. 12 our dragoman signalized
the departure of our dahabeyah by discharging his pistol
-- the sole weapon of defence we had on board; and we
sailed away with a fair north wind.

   It seems at first surprising that the North wind should
blow daily, if not with complete regularity, yet with some

398

/Et. 59]  UP THE NILE

ply the place of the immense volume of heated air which
ascends from the surfaces of the surrounding deserts
when the sun begins to heat them, a current of air sets
in below; and the coldest air, which is that from the

North, is that which takes the place of the heated air.
Be this as it may, however, the cold North wind greatly

qualifies one's sensation of warmth from the sun's rays,

and at the same time greatly qualifies the pre-conception

one has of the climate. How cold it frequently is may

may be judged from the fact that the fellahs, who, on the
banks of the river, work all day with their shadoofs, rais
ing water to irrigate their lands, habitually construct
screens to shelter themselves from the blast. And, in

further proof of the coldness, I may add that more than

ten days' journey South of Cairo, we twice had ice formed
at night on the deck of our dahabeyah.

   Here let me correct another erroneous impression re

specting the meteorology of Egypt, entertained, I sup
pose, by others in common with myself. I had always

been led to believe that " it never rains in Egypt." I

was completely undeceived when at Helouan; where, in

the adjacent desert, besides marks of recent storms, I

saw a channel which had been cut through the rock,
some dozen or more feet wide, and nearly as deep, by

the tremendous torrents which occasionally rushed

down it.

  While I am speaking of natural objects which inter

ested me, let me name a flock of pelicans seated upon
an adjacent sand-bank as we sailed by. After the melan

choly-looking specimens in the Zoological Gardens, it

was pleasant to see these birds in one of their natural

habitats. I was puzzled to understand how, in the tur

          399

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1879-80

ficiency of prey. Obscured by the suspended mud and
sand, fish can be visible at but very short distances; and
one would have thought that creatures requiring food
in such considerable quantities, could not have obtained,
by diving, a sufficiency.

    Perhaps it may be that the fish are limited almost en
tirely to the bottom, of which there is curious evidence.

As far as I remember, all the fish I saw, differing though

they might in species, were alike in being provided with
long pendant tentacles; showing how large a part ex
ploration by touch played in their lives. So thick is the
Nile water that at any considerable depth in it the light
must be very dim; and, as the distance seen through an
obstructing medium with little light can be but small,
the obtainment of food in mid-water must be impracti
cable. Feeling about at the bottom seems the only alter
native; and hence the great development of tactile

organs.

   But what of our life and adventures on the Nile? Well,
is seems hardly worth while to say anything concerning
them. As to the life, considered apart from occasional

excursions to tombs and temples, it was monotonous
enough. And as for the things seen, are they not de
scribed by many travellers, and delineated in the works
of Egyptologists? Now-a-days, to say anything new
about them would be difficult.

  There is, however, a further reason why I do not give

details of our journey. The dyspepsia set up at Alex

andria, with its consequent bad nights, had produced a

state of depression which prevented me from entering

with due zest into sight-seeing; and anything I might

400

JEt. 59]  UP THE NILE

acter which only deep interest can give. Hitherto my

nervous relapses had not caused any conspicuous
changes in my flow of spirits, which, throughout life,

had been equable -- never very high, never very low.

But now I had experience of a state, not uncommon with

nervous subjects, in which fancies, afterwards seen to
be morbid, took possession of me ; leading to ill-balanced
estimates and consequent unwise judgments. Already

I had once decided to return, and had changed my mind;
and at the first cataract I finally decided to return. As is

usual, our expedition was to extend to the second cata
ract; but at Philae, leaving my friends to carry out the

original plan, I bade them good-bye. This decision of

course added considerably to my expenses; for, beyond

my share of the costs up to the second cataract and back,

which of course I paid though I did not go, I had to

pay the cost of the return-journey to Cairo.
   This return-journey was rendered less monotonous

than it would else have been by a fortunate incident.
Such excursion traffic on the Nile as is not carried on in

dahabeyahs, is divided between two steamers; one of

which plies below the first cataract and the other above
it : passengers being transferred through some five miles

of desert from the one to the other. When my friends
sailed away from Philae, this upper steamer had just re
turned from the second cataract; and, joining those on

board, I had, in common with them, to wait three days

until the steamer at Assouan was ready for us. Among
those thus detained was Prof. Sayce ; and during these
three days we had some interesting conversations. One
of them concerned a general assumption of the phi

lologists to which I demur ; and I remember it in some

measure because it took place as we paced backwards and

                 69 401

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1879-80

forwards on the southern side of a grove of palms, to
shelter ourselves from the North wind ; though the place
is nearly five hundred miles south of Cairo.

   On our way down the river Prof. Sayce's information
made more instructive than they would otherwise have
been some things we saw together, and particularly the
temple of Abydos.

   How much was due to the aspect of things, and how

much to my mood, I cannot say, but Egypt impressed

me as a melancholy country. In the title of a work by
Mr. Stuart Glennie, it is called " the Morning- Land " :
the intention obviously being to suggest that it was the
land in which civilization dawned. But to me, not look
ing forward upon it but looking back, it seemed rather
the land of decay and death -- dead men, dead races,

dead creeds.

   Everywhere are ancient burial places to be visited --
vast cemeteries like that of Sakkara, extensive sepulchral
chambers such as those of the kings of Thebes, and rock-

cut tombs seen in the faces of the cliffs as we sail by.
Relics taken from graves are soon made familiar; and

from time to time one sees fragments of mummy-cloth
blown about by the winds. Here and there are shape
less mounds of debris, chaotically grouped, where once

towns and cities stood. At some places half imbedded

in these, and elsewhere otherwise imbedded, are the re

mains more or less ruined of the ancient temples, in
which, as in the tombs, was carried on a cult that griev
ously subordinated the living to the dead; while, along
with represented acts of sacrifice, their walls are filled
with scenes of merciless slaughter of one people by an

402

Mt. 59]  UP THE NILE

the winds have ever been bringing sands to bury the re
mains of men and their works, and to re-bury them
when exhumed.

   Nor does modern Egypt fail to remind one of death
and decay. Vast heaps which cover up once populous
towns, probably of comparatively recent date, draw
one's attention close to Cairo. Tombs, as of the Caliphs
and others, are here, again, among the things to be vis
ited. Moreover there are the burial grounds now in use
-- unfenced places run over by children and dogs, cov
ered by broken stones and monuments, with holes

which seem to run into the graves: places so repulsive
that anyone otherwise indifferent to death might shud
der at the thought of being interred there.

   And then there comes the thought of the miserable
peoples who have lived and died in the Nile valley ; from
the earliest times, when the masses were slaves to the
military and priestly castes, down to our own times,
when unhappy fellahs are beaten by extortionate tax-
gatherers to get money for supporting corrupt govern
ments. The suffering which has been borne on the banks
of the Nile by millions of men during thousands of years
is appalling to think of.

   Connected with these impressions, is the remembrance
of a marvellous contrast between two memorials to the
dead, presented at Ghizeh and at Elephantine re

spectively.

   With the one memorial is associated the name of
Cheops, or, as he is now called, Shufu or Koofoo --a king
who, if we may believe Herodotus, kept a hundred thou
sand men at work for twenty years building his tomb ;

         403

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1879-80

must have imposed forced labour on enormous numbers
of men for periods during which tens of thousands had to

bear great pains, and thousands upon thousands died of

their sufferings. If the amounts of misery and mortality

inflicted are used as measures, this king, held in such
detestation by later generations that statues of him were

defaced by them, ought to be numbered among the few

most accursed of men.

  The other memorial I observed on the occasion of an

excursion we made to the island of Elephantine at
Assouan. We saw a burial place there; and noted a

grave-heap recently made. Perhaps it covered the body
of one who died prematurely of toil made greater by
State-extortions; perhaps of a son who had laboured in
support of aged parents; perhaps of a widow who had
borne the burden of rearing fatherless children. But the
fact which impressed me was that at the head of this
grave-heap the sole mark of remembrance was a sun-
dried brick stuck on end.

   The contrasts between these monuments was striking
when one thought of it. To a man of immeasurable
guilt the biggest building which the world contains; to
a man probably inoffensive and possibly meritorious a

lump of parched clay!

   After a day spent at Cairo in recruiting (for, as may be

imagined, five nights on board a cramped Nile-steamer

left me in a state of exhaustion), and after going to see

the resident English physician there, Dr. Grant, I de

parted for Alexandria. Next morning was spent in an
excursion to Ramleh, a residential suburb, to call on

Mr. Hills, the international arbitrator (I don't know his

404

/Et. 59]  UP THE NILE

in the afternoon, I went on board the " Ceylon " P. & O.

steamer.

   Three days took us to Brindisi ; another day to Ancona ;

and the next morning found us at Venice. Here I sup

pose I ought to have remained some time ; but I find by

my diary, rather to my surprise, that my stay did not ex

tend beyond three days. Doubtless my impatience to

get home was the chief cause of this abridgment; joined,
perhaps, with the fact that " the stones of Venice " did

not produce in me so much enthusiasm as in many. Not
that I failed to derive much pleasure; but the pleasure

was less multitudinous in its sources than that which is

felt, or is alleged to be felt, by the majority. This may be

seen from the first entry in my diary:--

   "Venice at 8 to 9; went to Danielli's. Saw St. Mark's,
the Piazza, the Grand Canal, and some churches : fine day --
very picturesque -- general effect fine-- individual things not."

   Quarries in which men thought only of getting stone,
often present picturesque effects when deserted; whereas

the artificial rock-works made when trying to produce

picturesqueness are always miserable failures. Venice
reminded me of this. In the separate buildings in which

architects aimed at beauty, they have rarely achieved it;

but they have unawares achieved it in the assemblages

of buildings. Houses severally placed without refer

ence to effect, present everywhere charming combina

tions of forms and colours; so that, especially in the

smaller canals, every turn furnishes a picture.

   Astonished at these heretical opinions, the reader will

doubtless ask for justifications, and I cannot well avoid

giving them. Speaking generally, then, say of the pal
aces along the Grand Canal, my first criticism is that they

          405

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                               [1879-80

nothing more than decorated flat surfaces. No fine archi

tectural effect can be had without those advancing and

retreating masses which produce broad contrasts of light

and shade and yield variety in the perspective lines. This

is not all. A flat facade has not only the defects that its

perspective lines are monotonous and its contrasts of

light and shade insufficient; but it has, in too conspic
uous a way, the aspect of artificiality. Its decorative ele
ments --columns placed against the surface, pilasters

       it,
               it,
                                                it,
stuck upon reveals cut into string-courses running

along  plaques or medallions or carved wreaths at
tached in plain spaces--are all obviously designed for

effect. They form no needful parts of the structure, but

are merely superposed; and clearly tell the spectator

that they are there simply to be admired. But any work

of art faulty          suggests an eager desire for admira
       is

                   if
                       if it
                               it
tion in the artist --              suggests that neither the thought

of use nor the simple perception of beauty moved him,

but that he was chiefly moved by love of applause.
                                                                              is is
recognized truth that that the highest art which hides                            is
                       it
                               is                                                      It
the art, and an ornamented flat surface necessarily fails
                                                                                               is
in this respect; since discloses unmistakably the fact                                            a

that almost everything done to the surface done for

the sake of appearance. As illustrations of my meaning

may name the Dario, the Corner-Spinelli, and the Rez-
I
                                                                              that of
                                                                           ;

                                                       it
                                                                  is
zonico palaces. The best of the flat facades

the Scuola di San Rocco and                                                   so because the deco

rative element, less obtrusive than usual,                                    also sub

ordinated to the structural element in such wise that

its lines are dependent on the structural lines.

Passing from this general criticism to more special

criticisms, let me single out the Ducal Palace. There are

                                   406

Ml. 59]  UP THE NILE

inelegant proportions of its main dimensions; the dumpy
arches of the lower tier, and the dumpy windows in the

wall above ; the meaningless diaper pattern covering this
wall, which suggests something woven rather than built ;
and the long rows of projections and spikes surmounting
the coping, which remind one of nothing so much as the
vertebral spines of a fish. But, not dwelling on these
defects, let me signalize a defect of another order: the

impression of weakness which the construction gives. A

satisfactory architectural work, if it does not positively
suggest stability, must, at any rate, avoid suggesting in
stability. The artist has to consider the sum total of a
spectator's consciousness; and if one element of that

consciousness is a feeling of insecurity, however vague,

that feeling is so much deduction from whatever pleasure

is yielded by the purely aesthetic characters. In the
Ducal Palace we have a lower tier of arches borne on
dwarf columns, and above these a tier of more numer

ous arches on taller and thinner columns which support
foliated circles ; and then, surmounting this structure, we

have a large area of wall, not much lightened by open
ings. The general effect is that of a very heavy mass
posed on an assemblage of slender supports. That the
weight is not too great for them to bear, is true: the
building stands. But the appearance is such as to raise

the thought of a dangerous stress-- an uncomfortable

thought which more or less perturbs the consciousness

of such beauty as there may be in the parts.

  And what about St. Mark's? Well, I admit that it is
a fine sample of barbaric architecture. I use the word

barbaric advisedly; for it has the trait distinctive of semi-
civilized art --excess of decoration. This trait is seen in

         407

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1879-80

with coloured frescoes and hieroglyphs. It is seen in
oriental dresses, of which the fabric is almost hidden by
gold braiding and crusts of jewellery. It is seen in such
articles of Indian manufacture as cabinets and boxes,
having surfaces filled with fret-works of carving. And
in mediaeval days throughout Europe, it was habitually
displayed on articles belonging to those of rank-- pieces
of furniture profusely inlaid; suits of armour covered
everywhere with elaborate chasing; swords, guns, and

pistols, with blades, barrels and stocks chased and carved
from one end to the other. The characteristic of bar
baric art is that it leaves no space without ornament;
and this is the characteristic of St. Mark's. The span-
drils of the lower tier of arches are the only parts of the
facade not crammed with decorative work. This is an
error which more developed art avoids. Practically, if
not theoretically, it recognizes the fact that, to obtain
the contrasts requisite for good effect, there must be large
areas which are relatively plain, to serve as foils to the

enriched areas. A work of art which is full of small con

trasts and without any great contrasts, sins against the
fundamental principles of beauty; and a contrast above

all others indispensable is that between simplicity and

complexity.
   Archeologically considered, St. Mark's is undoubtedly

precious ; but it is not precious aesthetically considered.
Unfortunately many people confound the two.

   My last glance at Venice was from the gondola which
took me up the Grand Canal to the Railway Station,
early on the 7th of February. Thence I started for the
West and reached Milan in the afternoon.

   Two days there were pretty fully occupied in sight

                                             408

Mr. 59]  UP THE NILE

seeing: the cathedral being the chief attraction. I see

by my diary that I glanced into it on the afternoon of

my arrival; heard part of the Mass there next day; and,
before departing the day after, " went again to admire

the cathedral ".

  Leaving Milan on the 9th, I journeyed home via Turin

and Paris, reaching London on the 12th. The entry in
my diary is:-- "Home at 7-10; heartily glad -- more

pleasure than in anything that occurred during my tour".

  From a letter to Youmans written on the 13th, I may

quote a passage of some interest which, though irrele

vant to the subject-matter of the chapter, belongs to it
...by order of date :--
                             In Paris on Wednesday I
" I reached home last night

saw Bailliere, and he told me that the French Minister of

Education was desirous of having an edition of the Educa

tion from which the first chapter [" What Knowledge is
of most worth "] should be omitted ; for that, though he
himself concurred in its argument, there would be much

opposition if official distribution was given to a book contain
ing it. I agreed with Bailliere to let such an edition be pub

lished in a very cheap form."

  I should add that, in giving my assent to the publica
tion of such an addition, I stipulated that the extent and

nature of the part omitted should be specified in the pref

ace. This was done, and the truncated book issued for

         409

                       CHAPTER LIV.

    ENDING OF THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY.

                    1874 --81. Mt. 54--6l.

   As during a long preceding period, so during the
period covered by the foregoing six chapters, there had
been carried on, in addition to other occupations, the
superintendence of the Descriptive Sociology. In chapter

XLVII an account was given of this undertaking up to

the stage reached at the close of 1874; and here I have

to indicate the course of events connected with it up to
the date now arrived at, and then to a date considerably

in advance. I may most conveniently do this by string

ing together a number of extracts from letters to my
American friend. One of them, dated January 22, 1875,
says :--
" The loss on the Descriptive Sociology threatens to be very

great, at any rate for a long time to come. I have had the

accounts of expenditures and receipts made up to the

end of last year. I find that to that date, I had spent

£2176,, 12 ,, 10; and that my returns amounted to £260,, 17.

To these returns I may add, as money not yet received but

due, about £80 from sales of the three first numbers during

the last half-year ; and I suppose that the sum due from your

side will, when received, swell the proceeds of sales to
about £400."

   A letter of 27 Feb. again touches upon the question

                                             410

JEt. 54-61] ENDING OF THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

Savage Races now printing and in manuscript, must be
published ; and also the parts on which Collier, Scheppig, and

Duncan, are now engaged; but after this is done I shall be

disinclined to sacrifice further large sums, and give myself
continued trouble, for the benefit of . . . ."

    The correspondence after this contains nothing con
cerning the matter that is worth quoting until midsum

mer 1876; when, on July 10, 1 wrote:--

   " Nos. 5 & 6 of the Des. Soc. are still in the press. No. 5

I hope to issue as soon as I return in the autumn ; but No. 6
(the Hebrews) will not, I expect, be ready until the begin
ning of next year. I have abandoned the Hindoo civiliza

tion, finding that Duncan did not wish to continue the com
pilation, and being very glad to escape the further trouble

and loss; so that I shall cease with No. 8."
   I evidently looked forward to this final issue after no

Igreat delay; but was doomed to disappointment.

   For now affairs became considerably complicated, and
my worries much increased, in two ways. The rate of

compilation was greatly diminished by the ill-health of
the compilers, brought on by over-work notwithstand
ing my frequent protests; and it was further diminished
by the premature departure from England of one of them.

Dr. Scheppig's adopted career -- that of a teacher--he

had, it appeared, simply intended to suspend for a time
when he made his engagement with me: partly wishing
to see something of English life and institutions. After
three years he became impatient to resume his career;
knowing that, according to German regulations, he had
to pass through an ordained series of stages, and that
longer delay would postpone by so much the attainment
of a good position. Hence, at the beginning of 1876, he

                                                  411

                       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY               [1874-81

resenting to me that he would be able to finish the work
he had in hand -- the Hebrews -- before leaving. The re

sult well exemplifies the illusions caused by hope. When,

towards April 1876, the time for going came, he had far

from finished his task, and had to take it with him. This

explanation will make comprehensible the following

paragraph in a letter dated Jan.       3,  1877.      during  the
" Collier is quite broken down.        He   relapsed

spring at the time when he became a candidate for that

Professorship which he foolishly thought he would be able

to undertake along with the completion of my work, and

which, instead, sufficed, even by the excitement of the can

didature, to put him wrong again. He has never got right

since, and has been two months doing nothing. I had a letter

     from him this morning saying that he was no better. The

     evil is very serious, for this prostration of his state which has

     now lasted so long from the time since it first commenced

two years ago, greatly adds to the cost of the compilation of

     the French Civilization. The compilation alone of this part

     will cost me £500 at least,I   indeed, succeed in getting
                                       I
                               if,
                                              is

                                                   I
                                                         I

                                                                          it
     completed, about which begin to have my doubts. Scheppig

too, fear, greatly out of health. His copy for the printer
I                  is
    I
     has been coming very slowly of late, although was led to
     suppose there was not much to be done to it; and although

        wrote fortnight ago, inquiring about his health, he has
       a

     not replied.I     very much fear that he worse.  repent
                    I
     greatly of my foolish good-nature in agreeing early last year

     that he should apply for the post that he now holds at

     Holstein.         listened to his representations that he would

     be able to finish the work before he went. He utterly mis

     calculated, was unable to anything like finish  it,
                                                                            a
                                                      but took

     great part of the work with him to complete there, and has

     16,1878:--

                                  412

/Et. 54-£i] ENDING OF THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

" A few days ago I made up my annual accounts of the
Descriptive Sociology, and I find that I have now spent £3,200
and odd, while I have got back from England and America
£800 and odd. That I shall ever in any lapse of time repay

even printing expenses, is obviously out of the question ; for

I now see that the sales of the parts that have been issued

some little time do not suffice to pay interest upon the

capital invested in them. As soon as No. VI, the American
Races, is through the press, which it will be I hope early
in the autumn, I shall go to press with the French, which

will be the last. The Hebrews is still dragging its slow
length along, not above two-thirds of the extracts being as

yet printed. I suspect as things are going on it will be

another year before that is ready."

   In the slow progress of the undertaking nothing
further is to be noted in correspondence until a passage
dated Oct. 6, 1880, which runs :-- " The printing of this

part [Hebrews and Phoenicians] has cost me £320, say
ing nothing of the cost of compilation." And then, in a

letter of Dec. 2, comes this further reference to it:--

" This number of the " Hebrews and Phoenicians " has not

yet had much notice, and there has been no sign of such

extra sale as I had anticipated; so you had better beware

how you run to any expense in the anticipation of a demand.
The stupidity of the public passes all comprehension. Here
is a thing which, as Hooker says, " every parson ought to
have ", and yet there is no demand for it."

   It seemed a reasonable anticipation that, if not to the

clergy as a body, yet to a considerable sprinkling of them,
a work which presented the successive phases of Hebrew
life under all its aspects in a way convenient for refer
ence, would appear worth possessing. But authors and
publishers alike are often utterly wrong. Eooks of which

                                                  413

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1874-81

of great promise prove failures. Neither at the above
date, nor during the subsequent months or years, did
this number of the Descriptive Sociology command greater
attention than the others.

   Nearly another year had to elapse before this under

taking, so disastrous to the compilers in health and to me

in purse, was brought to a close. A letter to You-
mans dated Oct. 27, 1881, contains the passage: --

" At length the lingering process of getting No. 8 of the
Descriptive Sociology through the press is complete. Collier

has been so prostrate that he has actually taken more than

a year to get the tables corrected and printed. I enclose

herewith a copy of the notice of cessation, from which you
will see that the pecuniary results are sufficiently disastrous.

I am heartily glad, irrespective of this, to get the business

out of hand, so that it may no longer occupy my attention.

   Collier has written to me respecting the proposed intro
duction to the Descriptive Sociology. He is, however, so
far shattered in health that he does not think he could work

at it more than an hour a day."
   The " Notice of Cessation," above referred to, ran as

follows :--
  " With the issue of the Vlllth part, herewith, the publi

cation of the Descriptive Sociology will be closed.

   The collecting, classifying, and abstracting of the mate
rials contained in the parts now completed, was commenced
in 1867; and the work, carried on at first by one compiler,
subsequently by two, and for some years by three, has con

tinued down to the present time.

   On going through his accounts, Mr. Spencer finds that dur
ing the fourteen years which have elapsed since the under

taking was commenced, the payments to compilers, added
to the costs of printing, etc., have amounted to £4,425 15J.
yd. ; while, up to the present time, the returns (including
those from America) have been £1,054 125. id. -- returns

                                             414

aMt. 54-6i] ENDING OF THE DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY

                         if,which, when they have been increased by the amount derived
from the first sales of the part now issued, will leave a
                         Ideficit of about £3,250.

   Even had there been shown considerable appreciation of     5
the work, it would still have been out of the question to
continue it in face of the fact that, after the small sales          a
which immediately follow publication, the returns, so far from
promising to repay expenses in course of time, do not even
yield five per cent, interest on the capital sunk.

    Should the day ever come when the love for the person
alities of history is less and the desire for its instructive
facts greater, those who occupy themselves in picking out
the gold from the dross will perhaps be able to publish their
results without inflicting on themselves losses too grievous
to be borne -- nay, may possibly receive some thanks for their
pains."

   Perhaps I ought to add that the above-stated loss is

much less than that which would be set down by an ac
countant. As is implied by the figures, the amount laid
out is the total which resulted from adding each year the
sum spent in that year, and similarly with the proceeds:

no account being taken of interest in either case. If the

amount expended in successive years had been con
sidered as otherwise invested, in securities yielding, say,
4 per cent.; and as suppose they would have been
by man of business, the sums sacrificed in loss of in
terest on the progressively increasing total during the
fourteen years, had been taken into calculation, the loss
specified would have been considerably more than £4000.

    Since the notice was issued the sales, small as they
were, have so greatly decreased that nothing like per
cent, upon the capital sunk obtained. The returns for
last year write in 1889), after deducting trade-profits
and the costs of paper, printing, and binding, yielded

                                                   415
(I

                                   is

               CHAPTER LV.

          POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS.

               1880--82. Mt. 60--62.

Already in October 1879, while the volume on Cere

monial Institutions was passing through the press, and

there remained nothing for me to do to it beyond cor

recting the proofs, the next division, Political Institutions,

had been commenced : the first half of the month having

been devoted   to the   preparation   of materials, and much
of the latter  part to   the writing   of the " Preliminary "
chapter. On Oct. 8 I wrote: --
" It is a big business even to prepare the materials, and

it will be a very big business to properly deal with them.
In fact I feel I am about to commence the most arduous
part of my undertaking --being, as it is, so immensely exten

sive and so immensely complex. However, the organizing

ideas are making themselves fairly clear, and I have hopes

that it will work out satisfactorily, and that, having worked

out satisfactorily, it will be of very great importance in

rationalizing people's ideas; or at least the ideas of those

who are sufficiently advanced to be capable of assimilat

ing it."

   The decision, made on the 31st of the month, to go to
Egypt, was joined with the intention of writing further

                        416

/Et. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

to this end I took with me a considerable quantity of
classified extracts and memoranda : deciding that " I

must revert to primitive practices and be my own
amanuensis." But, as is implied by the last chapter but

one, these preparations and resolves proved futile.

Though one of the young ladies of our party kindly

offered to write to my dictation, yet my mood was such
that nothing came of the offer; and the packet of ma

terials I had taken with me was brought back unopened :

the only furtherance of my work being, perhaps, that

which resulted from contact with people in a lower stage

of civilization.

   Concerning the course of my writing during the period

covered by this chapter, not very much needs here be

said. I will note only that I decided to treat the suc
cessive chapters of Political Institutions as I had treated
those of Ceremonial Institutions. I decided to publish
them, or at any rate a number of them, serially ; and I

made arrangements, like those before made, with the

Fortnightly Review in England, with the Popular Science
Monthly in America, and with periodicals in France, Ger

many, and Italy. In this case I did not extend the sim

ultaneous publication of translations to Hungary and

Russia : why I do not now remember ; but I think because

it did not seem worth while to take the extra trouble in

volved. Adding only that the first of the chapters thus

published made its appearance in Nov. 1880, and the last

(in England at least) in July 1881, I pass on to narrate

the incidents which accompanied this portion of my
work.

  And here I am reminded that I have not said anything
about the daily routine I went through during the years

                70 417

                        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                      [1880-82

now passing. Some three chapters back, a transcribed

portion of my diary presented in detail my occupations

and amusements during an autumn vacation; and it

seems fit that I should somewhere give a like transcript

from the register of my occupations and amusements

during a portion of the London season. To avoid the

need for selection, I will take the interval between my

return from Egypt and the end of March ; omitting the

first week, during which, after three months' absence, I

had of course scarcely settled down into the usual order,

either of work or of social life.

"February 22nd [Sunday]: -- Reading and sorting mems;
Club; dined at Busk's --Allman and wife.                              23rd: -- New

secretary -- Mr. Sutton ; letters and sorting mems ; Club ; dined
                                              24th :-- Letters and sorting
there, Hirst and Debus.
mems; Athenaeum committee; dined at Club--Tyndall,
                        25th :-- Letters ; reading French tables
Hirst, and Debus.

for extracts; business; Club; dined there -- Hirst, Debus.
26th :-- reading French tables for extracts ; Club ; dined
there -- Hirst.         27th :-- Commenced " Political Organiza

tion"; dined at Club-- Hirst, Debus.                            28th :--"Political
                 "
Organization         ;  Club ;  dined         at Tyndall's -- Huxley,         Dean

Stanley, Hirst, Lady Claud Hamilton, Miss Hamilton,
&c. 29th [Sunday] :-- Revising draft of Autobio. ; dined
at Club-- Hirst and Debus.                     March 1st: -- "Political Or
ganization " ; Club as usual.                        2nd :--" Political Organ
ization " ; Club ; dined with Miss North -- Holman Hunt,

Fergusson,       Galton, Richmond, Maskelyne,                          &c. 3rd :
--" Political                          "
                 Organization              ;  Club ;  dined     with  Frankland --

meeting Spottiswoode, Hooker, Huxley, Debus, Tyndall, &c.
4th :-- " Political                           "                               5th :--
                        Organization              ;  Club ;  X  dinner.
" Political                     "                                                6th :
             Organization           ;  Club ;        dined   there -- Hirst.

--"Political Organization"; Club; to Kew and dined with

Hooker --met Siemens, Masters, and Henslow.                              7th [Sun

                                       418

JEt. 60-62]         POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

Cohen; called on Campbells; Club; dined there --Hirst and
                                   " Political                "
Debus.       8th :-- Finished                   Organization      ;  dined

at Club ; went to Criterion Theatre.             9th :-- Arranging
IImems; Athenaeum committee -- Rule
                                                 election; called on

Theresa Potter to inquire about the travellers ; dined at Club

-- Morley.   "      10th: --Arranging mems; began "Political
                ;                  Club--Hirst ; Soirte
Integration         dined   at                           at Spottis-

woode's.     nth: --"Political Integration"; dined at Club.
12th :-- " Political               "             13th :-- " Political
             "        Integration      ;  Club.
                 ;
Integration         Club ;  dined  with   Lord Arthur Russell--met

Lord and Lady Sligo, Lord and Lady Reay, General McCrea-
             14th [Sunday] :-- Miscellaneous; called on Mrs.
lock, &c.

Lewes; dined at Club-- Tyndall, Hirst, and Debus.                    15th:
--Revising; dined at Club-- Roupell, Hirst, and Debus.
16th: -- Revising; Club; dined at Galton's-- Romanes, Mas-
                                                         17th :-- Re
kelyne, Strachey, Miss Lawrences, &c., &c.
                                18th :-- Correspondence with Collier
vising; dined at Club.                                        19th :--
all morning -- no amanuensis ; dined at Club.
Ditto, Ditto; Athenaeum House-Committee -- selecting cooks;
                      20th:-- Revising; Club; dined at Smalley's
dined at Club.

--Lord Reay, A. Forbes, Lord Houghton, Elton, Cartwright,
&c. 2 1 st [Sunday]: -- Unwell; dined at Club.
                                                              22nd: --

Revising; dined at Club-- Hirst, Debus.          23rd: -- Revising;
Club; dined at Harrison's -- Pigott, Paul, &c.
                                                         24th:-- Re

vising; looking after refitting of my study, and arranging
                                   25th :-- Revising; dined at Club
books &c. ; dined at Club.

and came home to meet Lott.               26th :--With Lott to Rich

mond; dined there; down the Thames to Kew; home at 6J.
27th :-- Revising ; afternoon with Lott to Lyceum, to see

Merchant of Venice ; evening, called on Baileys [old friends
                                                28th [Sunday] :-- Loch
we made in Switzerland in '53].

came to spend the day ; afternoon, called on Bishopp [an

old engineering friend] ; dined at St. James restaurant; even
                      29th :-- Over with Lott to Enmore Park
ing at Busk's.

and spent the day with Loch; walked to Crohamhurst.

                                   419

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                         [1880-82

tating "Political Integration"; dined at Club.         31st: --
                         "
"Political  Integration     ;  Club ;  dined  there."

   These entries may be taken as fair representatives,

save in two respects. It seems that from the want of a

secretary during part of the time, my morning's work
did not proceed in the ordinary uniform way -- was not

indicated, as it mostly was, by the title of a chapter re

peated day after day, followed after a while by the title

of a subsequent chapter. And then I see no mention of

music. Usually, in the space of a month, a concert,

public or private, would appear in the record of my

relaxations.

  If I did not go to him at Easter, Lott usually came to

me ; and this year a special motive for coming had been

to hear all about my doings in Egypt. Doubtless among

the things I told him, was something equivalent to the
following passage written to Youmans on April 13:--
" I am glad to report myself as well --better indeed than I

have been for a long time. Notwithstanding drawbacks, the

break in my ordinary life which the excursion to Egypt in

volved, seems to have been decidedly beneficial, and has

apparently worked some kind of constitutional change; for,

marvellous to relate, I am now able to drink beer with
impunity and I think with benefit --a thing I have not been
able to do for these 15 years or more." [Long desistance

from work was probably a chief cause.]

IOn May 3, referring to the same subject, wrote :--

  " I was 60 on Tuesday last. My vigour is pretty well
shown by the fact that I found myself running up stairs two
steps at a time, as I commonly do."

It seems strange that, considering my frequent bouts of

                               420

aSu. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

tained so much vitality. The next extract, dated 21 June,

concerns another matter :--
" Enclosed I send you a note which will please you, and

which will furnish you with an admirable handle against the
Classicists. It is from the Greek minister here; and ac

companies, as you see by its contents, a Greek translation

made by a late Minister of Education. The surprising and

extremely telling fact is that this thing which the Greeks
have first undertaken to translate, is the first chapter of the

Education --' What knowledge is of most worth.' "

Anomalous    cerynou"gGhr!eekWhLiilteerainturEengrlaatnhder  the educational
authorities                                                   than Science,"
in Greece they cry " Science rather than Greek litera

ture."

Whitsuntide found me at Clifton: duty more than

pleasure being the occasion of my journey there. Since

the death of my uncle Thomas, named in an early part

of this volume, I have made no mention of my aunt
Anna. But on looking back I count up four visits to see

her, which were among those unrecorded excursions re

ferred to in a recent chapter : two being to Hinton, where,

after the death of her brother, Mr. Brooke, she lived for

some years with her sister-in-law and niece; and two

being to Churchill near Bristol, where she has, since the

death of her sister-in-law, lived with the clergyman to

whom her niece was married. Churchill is within easy

reach of Clifton. On going thither I learned that she
was at Weston-super-Mare. There I went next day, and

found her bearing cheerfully her invalid-life in bed, borne

for years before and years since--evidently consoled by

those thoughts of compensation hereafter which doubt

less, in the present state of the world, make the ills of life

             421

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

   Before returning to town I made a detour to Stour

bridge, with a view to finding an answer to the genealog

ical question named in a preceding chapter ; but I failed,

as before.

   In the course of his career an author finds that each
new book is a new hostage to fortune. Like a child of

the body, to which Bacon's metaphor tacitly refers, a

child of the mind becomes a source of troubles and
anxieties ; so that, as he advances in life, more and more

of the author's time is taken up with the increasing dis

tractions which accompany the increasing number of vol

umes published. I do not refer only to the fact that each

additional work furnishes a further vulnerable place to

antagonists ; though this is of course a large part of the

result. But I refer also to the fact that each additional

work brings after it an extra series of transactions which

augment the complications of life in subsequent years--

the trouble of revision, the attention required to bring
things up to date, the business of new editions.

   This spring two interruptions hence arising occurred ;
of which the first was entailed by an apparent need for
self-defence. By Mr. Malcolm Guthrie there had been
published a volume, On Mr. Spencer's Formula of Evolu

tion, aiming to refute the doctrine set forth in First

Principles; and the Rev. Prof. Birks had issued a book

entitled Modern Physical Fatalism and the Doctrine of
Evolution, including an examination of Mr. H. Spencer's
First Principles. Besides these major attacks, formidable

if measured by bulk, there were some minor ones, less

bulky, but more worthy of notice, coming from Prof.
Tait, the Rev. Mr. Kirkman, Mr. Matthew Arnold, the

422

JEt. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

edition of First Principles was called for; and, think

ing it worth while to deal with these antagonists in

an Appendix, I devoted to the task parts of June and

July.

  The other interruption had a different origin. When I

agreed to publish The Study of Sociology in the " Inter

national Scientific Series," I stipulated that after a speci
fied period I should be at liberty to issue an edition of the
work along with my other works. The year in which I

became free to do this was 1880; and for several preced

ing years I had, during intervals of leisure, been slowly

removing such defects of expression as I found in the
book, and preparing a postscript. I think I have before

named the fact that so far from disliking the process of

polishing, as most writers do, I had a partiality for it;

and cannot let any piece of work pass so long as it seems

to me possible to improve it. The library edition of The

Study of Sociology, published in July of this year, fur

nished a marked illustration of this trait. I had of course
revised the original MS. ; I had revised the proofs before
publication in the Contemporary; I had revised the proofs

of the re-published articles forming the volume as it
appeared in the " International Scientific          "
                                            Series      ;  I  had

revised this volume in preparation for a final edition ;

and, lastly, I had revised the successive sheets of this final

edition as they passed through the press. Thus every

sentence in the work had passed under my eye for correc

tion five times ; and each time there was rarely a page

which did not bear some erasures and marginal marks.

There are those who hold that changes of expression,

carried even to a much smaller extent, are commonly in

jurious ; and it may be that the first mode of expression

             423

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

an alteration is also a condensation it is nearly always an

improvement.

    Occasionally very ludicrous effects are caused by the
printing of sentences which were probably not read over

after they were written. I have noted in the course of

years two examples worth recording. One was in an

advertisement which I cut out of The Times, and have
now before me. It begins as follows: --

   "Mr. Henry Leslie's Choir, June 11. -- Programme: --

Part 1. Sacred Music. -- Motett, for double choir, 'The
Spirit also helpeth us ' (in compliance with very numerous
requests), Bach."

The other was still more remarkable. Some dozen years
since there arose a mania for ornamenting houses at
Christmas with illuminated texts; and in response to the
demand for these, there appeared an advertisement of
" Marcus Ward's Christmas Wall Decorations ". To
guide purchasers in ordering those which would fit spaces
on their walls, Messrs. Ward & Co. had specified after

each text the length of the scroll occupied by it. This
memorandum of length gave to more than one of them

some oddity of appearance ; but finally there came this :--

    " ' Unto you is born a Saviour.' About 6 feet long."

This advertisement, which also I have preserved, will

be found in the Athenaum for Dec. 15, 1877,

page 788.

  Already I have narrated two strange coincidences that

have occurred to me ; and because it furnished the occa

sion for a third, I must say something about my visit to

Scotland this autumn.

  After a fortnight at Inveroran, I moved on to Loch

424

S.t. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

mountains adjacent, had been for several years tenanted

by Mr. Robert Birkbeck ; and by him I had been invited
there. A small yacht which fetched me from Glenelg,

and in which various excursions were made, added to the

pleasures of the place ; and partly in rambling, partly in

sea-fishing, partly in yachting, a pleasant ten days was

passed. During my stay, reference was made to Black's

novels, the scenes of many of which lie on the west coast
of Scotland. This recalled to me a curious coincidence

which had occurred some years before while I was stay
ing at Ardtornish. I was reading A Daughter of Heth.
At intervals I had got through the first volume and com

menced the second, when, one afternoon, it was an

nounced that the Dobhran was about to start for Oban to

meet friends who were arriving from Glasgow. Knowing

that there would be a good deal of unoccupied time, I

took with me this second volume. We arrived in Oban

Bay half an hour before the steamer was due, and cast

anchor. During the interval of waiting I resumed my
novel. Presently I came to a part which told how the

heroine was taken on a yachting excursion by her friends,

and went to Oban Bay. This odd coincidence between

the fictitious yachting and the actual yachting I narrated.
Now comes the strange fact. If not the next day, then
certainly within a few days, I took up a number of the

Cornhill Magazine in which Mr. Black's novel, White

Wings, was being serially published, and read a chapter

containing an account of a visit paid by the heroine and
her friends to Loch Hourn ! The coincidence was not, on

this second occasion, complete; for I was not on board

Mr. Birkbeck's yacht while reading. But the yacht was

lying out in the loch, within two hundred yards of the

             425

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

  For this last of the three coincidences I have named,

there is no other evidence than my own word ; but of the

others there exist, among my papers, documentary
proofs. The one described in the first volume, showing

that, at an interval of four years, I made two engage

ments of exactly the same kind, in which my two superi
ors were both of the same nationality, had the same sur
names, and the same christian names, is one which might

as readily have occurred to any one else as to me; and

one which I suppose must from time to time be paralleled
in the degree of correspondence, if not in the kind of

correspondence. Now comes the lesson. There is no
more reason for expecting correspondence between two
such sets of facts in actual life, than between such a set
in actual life and such a set in a dream. Considered as a

question of probabilities, the last correspondence is just
as likely as the first. See then the implication. Millions
of people in Great Britain dream every night ; and in
the space of a year there are probably at least a hundred
millions of dreams vivid enough to be recalled on awak
ing. Clearly, then, in view of this occasional correspond
ence between two sets of events in actual life, we must
infer that out of this enormous number of cases there
will occasionally be a correspondence between a set of
events in actual life and a set of events in a dream ;

and when one such occurs it will appear like a fulfilment.
May we not say that the alleged fulfilments are not more
common than, in conformity with the law of probability,
we may expect them to be?

   My farewell to my friends, and to the grand scenery of
Loch Hourn, was made on the 25th August, and on the

426

JEt. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

   As narrated above, there had arisen in the spring twoit,I
of those eddies or backwaters by which the stream of ana
author's life is more and more impeded as it lengthens       ",
and broadens; and now in the autumn there arose anI
                      I                                         II
other. Its nature is indicated in the following extract
             I
from correspondence :--
" As you have, I daresay, observed, I have been a good dealis

attacked by various critics as to the " incoherence ", as theyI
call of my psychological system, and the " confused " char
acter of my metaphysics: the confusion which they ascribe
to me, being, as conceive, due to their own inability to
co-ordinate the several aspects of the system as they are now
separately stated. As hinted in the course of my reply to
criticisms, written some years ago, had originally intended
to write division under the head " Congruities in which

the harmony existing between the several parts should be
pointed out, and had refrained from doing this because
thought the harmony was sufficiently conspicuous; but that,
as the criticisms passed proved that this was not the case,
might hereafter add this division. The third edition of the
Psychology, find, now gone, with the exception of fifty

copies; and finding this, am inclined to prepare this addi
tional division for the fourth edition. As this opinion con
cerning the Psychology, -- that the views are not consistent
with one another, -- has been made widely prevalent, and

repeated by critics who know nothing about as an estab
lished truth, seems to me needful that should do this;

especially as fancy the reputation of the book somewhat
damaged by this kind of opinion in the Universities."
             I it                  I

                                         it
                                              is

                                                                 is

The execution of this piece of work, commenced before

left town, occupied me for month after my return
I

                                     a
                                         it
                                                  a

                                                           a

                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                   ;
and then followed short supplementary holiday.  had

for several years made        practice to take runs down to

                              427

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

work enabled me to partly occupy the time in revision.

So, taking with me a set of proofs of this new division

of the Psychology, and visiting the Spottiswoodes at

Coombe Bank on my way, I passed on to Minster, Mar

gate, Westgate, Ramsgate, Sandwich, Deal, and Dover:

staying a few hours at some of these places and a few

days at others ; and returning to town as soon as I had

finished my proof-correcting.
   Still another backwater now hindered me. Various

criticisms, some from undistinguished persons and others

from men of mark, had been made upon The Data

of Ethics: Prof. Sidgwick being, I remember, one among
these last. A new edition was called for ; and, to remove

certain of the misapprehensions and invalid objections, it

seemed worth while to say something. The result was

that I devoted nearly three weeks to writing an appendix
to the book. Only in the last week of October had I

freed myself from these various entanglements, and was
able to resume the writing of Political Institutions, which

thereafter made some progress.

   Two months later came one of those events which, as

the years roll on, happen with increasing frequency, and

render life less worth living. The following extract from

a letter to Lott tells what this event was :--

   " You were doubtless saddened by the sudden death of

George Eliot. I had seen her on the very afternoon of the

day on which she was taken ill -- being impelled to go in
response to a note I had received the preceding day, and
by the consciousness that I was leaving town and could not

otherwise expect to see her for three weeks. The next I

knew was the announcement of her death in Thursday's

evening paper, which reached me at Hastings."

   Some of the obituary notices contained an error which

                                                  428

JEt. 60-62]            POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

had been long current without making its appearance in

such form as to admit of rectification. It was now need

ful to rectifyis       and published the following letter in
                        I
      II                        I

                  it,                            a
several of the daily papers.
   " Sir, -- Though, as one among those intimate friends most

shocked by her sudden death, would willingly keep silence,

   feel that cannot allow to pass serious error containedI

in your biographical notice of George Eliot. A positive

form there given to the belief which has been long cur

rent, that had much to do with her education. There not
                                                               is

the slightest foundation for this belief. Our friendship did
not commence until 185 -- date several years later than
the publication of her translation of Strauss, and when she
                           1

                                 a

was already distinguished by that breadth of culture and

universality of power which have since made her known to
all the world. -- Herbert Spencer."

   Information which           had,  suppose, given to my
                        I
                                  aI

                                                                                 is
American friend during one of his visits here, led him to

publish in New York journal letter rectifying kindred
'

      I
                    a
misconceptions current in the United States. This
what subsequently wrote to him on the matter: --

   " Your second letter, which concerned the notice of

 George Eliot/ reached me while away in Gloucestershire,
but only this morning did receive copy of the Sun, con
                            I        I

taining your explanations.                    a

   What you have said nearer to the truth than the currentit I
                        it is
statements are, though      is  still, think, divergent, as repre

senting my influence as greater than                think  it  was. In

respect to the fact that in early days, urged her to write
                           I,

fiction, you are doubtless right; though            was not so much

on the ground of any unfitness for philosophical writing,

which should be far from alleging, but on the ground that
I
         I
   thought she had in high degree all the faculties needed
                        a

for fiction. That she resisted this suggestion for some years

                                429

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1830-82

was considerably influenced all along by my books. In fact,
 accepting their general views as she did, it could hardly
be otherwise ; and it may be that the Principles of Psychol
 ogy was a help to her in the respect of her analyses. But
it never occurred to me to consider the effect so great as
you suppose. Her powers in respect of introspection and

sympathetic insight into others, were naturally extremely

great; and I think her achievements in the way of delinea

tion of character are almost wholly due to spontaneous

intuition.
   In respect of her avowed condition, she has been more a

disciple of Comte than of mine; although her acceptance of

Comte's views was very much qualified, and, indeed, hardly
constituted her a Comtist in the full sense of the word. Still
she had strong leanings to the " Religion of Humanity ",
and that always remained a point of difference between us.
However, during our last interview, which was on the very

day she was taken ill, conversation brought out evidence
that she was veering a good deal away from Comte, and
recognized the fundamental divergence from the Comtist
conception of society, of views of mine which she accepted.
She had been re-reading, with Mr. Cross, the Data of Ethics
and the Study of Sociology (the last, indeed, for the third
time), and was in general sympathy with their views. So
that the influence might have been more manifest in further

works if she had lived to write them (she had sketched out

another novel and written the first chapter).

    However, you have done very well by correcting the false
impressions that have been so widely diffused. Probably

you have already seen that I immediately myself wrote a

letter to the papers stating that there was no truth in the
notion that her education had been under my direction."

   To exclude a mis-apprehension likely to be strength

ened by a reference made above, let me say that the men

430

JEt. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

conversation concerning The Study of Sociology, and was       \
quite incidental. Positivism had always been a tacitly
tabooed topic between the Leweses and myself --the only
topic on which we differed, and which we refrained from

discussing.

   A movement was commenced to obtain for George
Eliot a place in Westminster Abbey ; but, before any

overt steps were taken, it was concluded that undesirable
comments would probably be made, and the movement
was abandoned. She was buried in the Highgate Ceme
tery ; and, though the day was continuously rainy, the
funeral was attended by a very large concourse, including
many distinguished men.

   The mention above of The Study of Sociology, and the
consciousness that the writing of Political Institutions

occupied me during the period covered by this chapter,
suggest the propriety of here saying something about my
political opinions at the age of 60, considered in contrast

with those I held in early days. Have my ideas been

modified by the conservatism of advancing years, or by

the wider knowledge acquired? or have both operated in

causing the change from a sanguine view to a desponding

view ? I have sometimes startled friends by saying that I

am more tory than any tory, and more radical than any

radical ; and the still-continued truth of this paradox

shows that, while I have not relinquished my ideal of the
future, I have come to see that its realization is far more
remote than I had supposed. The indignation against

wrong, the hopefulness of youth, and the lack of experi

ence, had joined in me, as they do in many, to produce
eagerness for political re-organization, and the belief that

             431

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

retically more equitable, to remedy the evils under which

society suffered. Hence my juvenile radicalism.

   It is true, as shown in Social Statics, that by the time I

was thirty the crude notions of five-and-twenty had been

considerably qualified. I had come to see that institutions

are dependent on character; and, however changed in
their superficial aspects, cannot be changed in their essen

tial natures faster than character changes. It had become

manifest to me that men are rational beings in but a very

limited sense ; that conduct results from desire, to the

gratification of which reason serves but as a guide ; and

that hence political action will on the average be deter

mined by the balance of desires, wherever this can show
itself. It is also true, as shown in the essay on " Reform :

the Dangers and the Safeguards ", that ten years later I

saw that mischiefs would result from the giving of votes,
unless the cost of political action, general and local, were
made to fall directly and unmistakeably on all individuals

who had them ; and that political power can be safely

extended only as fast as governmental functions are re

stricted.

  But I myself illustrated the truth that feeling rather

than intellect guides ; for, apparently forgetting these con

clusions, I approved that wide extension of the franchise

effected by the Reform Bill of 1867. The sentiment of
early years, so strongly enlisted on behalf of the seem

ingly-just principle of giving equal political powers to all
men, proved too strong for the restraints of my calmer

judgments. And then, beyond those recognized truths

which feeling led me to ignore, there were other truths

unrecognized which I ought not to have overlooked, and

from the recognition of which further deterrents should

432

&t. 60-62]    POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

I might have inferred a priori, that which has now

become clear a posteriori, that the change would result in

replacing the old class-legislation by a new class-legisla

tion. It is certain that, given the average human nature

now existing, those who have power will pursue, in

directly if not directly, obscurely if not clearly, their own

interests, or rather their apparent interests. We have no

reason for supposing that the lower classes are intrinsi

cally better than the higher classes. Hence while the
                           it
                                          it

                                                   if,
last were predominant, they made laws which in one way

or other favoured themselves, follows that now, when

the first are predominant, they also will give legislation
                                                        is
bias to their own advantage. Manifest as always was,       it a it a

has now become more manifest still, that, so long as gov

ernmental action unrestricted, the thing required
            a
               is
                       is
representation of interests; and that system under which
                           a
                                         a
one interest  overwhelmingly represented (whether

be that of smaller or of larger section of the com

munity) will issue in one-sided laws. We shall presently

see the injustices once inflicted by the employing classes

paralleled by the injustices inflicted by the employed

classes. During long past the superior have inequitably
            a
profited at the cost of the inferior and now one of thosea
                                     ;
rhythms displayed in movements of every order, bring
                                        aI

                                                              ; is

                                                              I
ing about state in which the inferior will inequitably

profit at the cost of the superior.

There was another overlooked truth which has lately

become conspicuous enough. Often have reproached

politicians with contemplating only the proximate results

of legislation and not seeing the remote results and

find have to reproach myself with kindred blindness.
I
     I
did not in early days perceive that one organic change

tends ever to initiate another, and this another, occasion

            al 433

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

ally bringing about a perpetual moulding and re-mould
ing of institutions, and a too-plastic state of society ; until
there eventually arrives something approaching to politi
cal disorganization.

   But, as above said, while character remains unchanged,
change of institutions, however great superficially, cannot

be fundamentally great ; and while there is going on dis
organization of one kind, there goes on re-organization
of another kind -- while the old coercive arrangements are
being relaxed, new coercive arrangements are being un
obtrusively established. For the concomitant of that

legislation which more and more advantages the em
ployed classes at the expense of the employing classes, is
the growth of an administrative system becoming ever

more powerful and peremptory -- a new governing agency

which the emancipated people are unawares elaborating
for themselves, while thinking only of gaining the prom
ised benefits. Unceasing development of this, daily more
rapid, has now become inevitable, for the reason that
both electors and their representatives invoke with in

creasing urgency public help, public expenditure, and
public regulation, which all imply a continually augment

ing army of officials --an army which, by the restrictions
and dictations its members enforce, gradually decreases
the freedom of citizens, at the same time that it further

decreases this freedom by demanding that more and more

of their labour shall be devoted to maintaining it and

paying for the work it superintends. The insidious
growth of this organized and consolidated bureaucracy
will go on, because the electorate cannot conceive the
general but distant evils it must entail, in contrast with
the special and immediate advantages to be gained by its

434

All. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

terial boons-- better homes, shorter hours, higher wages,                                        .
more regular work. Hence they are in favour of those                                             -
who-vote for restricting time in mines, for forcing em

ployers to contribute to men's insurance funds, for dic

tating railway-fares and freights, for abolishing the so-
called sweating system. It seems to them quite right that

education, wholly paid for by rates, should be State-regu

lated ; that the State should give technical instruction ;

that quarries should be inspected and regulated ; that

there should be sanitary registration of hotels. The

powers which local governments now have to supply gas,

water, and electric light, they think may fitly be extended

to making tramways, buying and working adjacent canals,

building houses for artizans and labourers, lending money

for the purchase of freeholds, and otherwise adding to

conveniences and giving employment. While all this

implies a wide-spread officialism, ever growing in power,

it implies augmented burdens upon all who have means:

constituting an indirect re-distribution of property. There
    in fact, already in force the policy which Mr. Henry
is,
               it
                            a

                           if

                                                             ;

                                                   it
                                                               is

                                                                              it
George advocates, when he says we must not turn out the
landlords but " tax them out".

On recognizing the universality of rhythm, becomes

clear that was absurd to suppose that the great relaxa-

tion of restraints -- political, social, commercial --which
culminated in free-trade, would continue. A re-imposi

tion of restraints, not of the same kind then of other

kinds, was inevitable and  now manifest that

whereas during long period there had been an advance

from involuntary co-operation in social affairs to volun

tary co-operation (or, to use Sir Henry Maine's language,

from status to contract), there has now commenced

reversal of the process. Contract                                                 in all direc-
a
                                                                              is

             435

          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

tions being weakened and broken ; and we are on the way
back to that involuntary co-operation, or system of status,

consequent on the immense development of public ad

ministrations and the corresponding subordination of citi
zens--a system of industries carried on under universal
State-regulation -- a new tyranny eventually leading to

new resistances and emancipations.               Co

  There may be factors which I have overlooked.

operation, for example, were it successful, might do much

towards checking this transformation. But so long as co

operation succeeds only in distribution and fails in pro

duction, not much is to be hoped from it. Human nature

must be much better than it at present is before a much

higher civilization can be established. Though I believe

that, in the words of the song, " there's a good time com
ing," it now seems to me that the " good time " is very far

distant.

   Beyond the usual routine entries, varied by mention of
a visit to Standish at Easter, my diary tells me nothing
of note concerning the season of 1881. The following
extracts from letters, however, seem worth reproducing.
The first is dated Feb. 14:--

   " I had from Alglave the other day a pleasant piece of

intelligence which you will be glad to learn. The French
Government have bought 100 copies of the translation of
the Data of Ethics for the public libraries in France."

The next is dated May 7 :--
   " I inclose a letter from Morley in which, as you see, he

proposes to end the series with the forthcoming chapter on
' Compound Political Heads.' "

The succeeding chapters were, however, published in
America. The next passage which may fitly be quoted

          436

JEt. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

  " I am glad to see that you take the same view as I do

with respect to the supreme importance of the political

theory, especially for you in the U.S. I do not believe that

a true theory will do much good ; but we may at any rate

say, contrariwise, that an untrue one does a great deal of

harm ; and at present much mischief is going on among you

as a result of untrue theories."

  Utterly irrelevant though it is in subject, I am

prompted to add here a passage written during this
spring to my friend Lott :--

   " As you say you have thoughts of coming to hear Berlioz's

Faust, I would suggest that a much better thing in that
way would be to hear his Romeo and Juliet, which I am
glad to say is to be repeated on April 7th. This is, I am

now certain, the piece a part of which so delighted me when

I heard it thirty years ago, and the non-recognition of which
by the critical world so exasperated me. I have been since

that time aware that it was a part of Faust or a part of
Romeo and Juliet; and now, having recently heard Faust,

which did not reach my expectations, I am clear it was a

part of Romeo and Juliet."

I must have been mistaken, however ; for I did not find

in Romeo and Juliet anything which gave me such ex

treme pleasure as did some music of Berlioz played dur

ing the first season of the New Philharmonic Concerts,

which he then conducted. I have not been able to dis

cover what music it was.

   An occurrence too amusing to go unrecorded, requires

the introduction that this autumn I decided to visit the
Eastern side of the Grampians, which I had never seen.

One of the results is given in the following passage from

a letter to my American friend :--
  I" may end with something to make you laugh. A story

                                             437

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

is in circulation, which originally made its appearance in
one of our personal journals, The World, that a place

which I had visited during my absence has been exorcised,
in consequence of my presence. It was at Braemar, where,
as the paragraph states (rightly), I had been staying some

days, and where a Free Church clergyman saw my name
in the visitors' book. ' He was seen to shudder, and, being

asked what was the matter, in tremulous accents said that

Anti-Christ was living under the same roof, and straight

way convened a prayer-meeting in the billiard room as a
fumigatory measure.' "

  Knowing the worth of newspaper statements, I gave

but little heed to this story until I obtained a verification.

But from a fellow-member of the Athenaeum, who was

in the hotel after my departure, and also from another

acquaintance, I learnt that something of the kind took

place.

   A letter written soon after from Ardtornish, or rather

from its neighbourhood, contains a quotable paragraph.

It is dated " SS. Yacht Dobhran, in the Sleat Sound,"
12th August :--

   " As you see, I write this while out yachting on the west

coast of Scotland, in a steam-yacht belonging to my friends

at Ardtornish. I have brought with me, for final revision,

the last of the chapters intended for serial publication, [" The
Industrial Type"], and shall post it to you from some place

we touch at.

   It is terribly long, and I fear may entail on you some

inconvenience. But it could not with justice to the subject-

matter be made shorter ; and the matter is of cardinal im
portance -- indeed it is the culminating chapter of the work --

and, indeed, of the Synthetic Philosophy, in so far as prac
tical applications are concerned. It has worked out quite
to my satisfaction. You will be glad to see how entire is

438

Mt. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

forth, and the abstract argument contained in The Data of
Ethics."

   The fiftieth meeting of the British Association was
held at York this year. Sir John Lubbock, one of our

X club, was President ; and this fact furnished one of
the motives which prompted my departure for York after
three weeks at Ardtornish. A letter to Lott, written

after my return to town, gives some particulars concern

ing my stay there :--
   " You complained in your last that I had not given you

any account of my own previous doings. Well, to exclude

any such complaint in your next letter, I will just indicate
my movements since I wrote to you from Ardtornish.

Valentine Smith took me in the Dobhran to Stranraer on
my way to York [he being on his way to London], and in
the course of our day's voyage we touched at Jura and called
on Henry Evans to see his place. It is recently built and a

very comfortable one. At York I had pleasant days : my

stay at Escrick being especially enjoyable. The circle was

a varied one, and everything was made more agreeable by
our very charming hostess, Lady Wenlock, who is one of

the most attractive women I know. At Fryson, where I

afterwards spent some four days, among the guests were

Lady Burdett-Coutts and her husband. She is amiable and

unassuming.

   From Fryson I went to Rusland, and had a quiet ten days
before coming South, where I have now been for nearly a
month. On the whole I had a very enjoyable holiday, and

have come back all the better for it : being, in fact, in very

fair condition."

   And so ends the last narrative of my vacation doings

with which the reader need be troubled.

The remainder of '81 and early part of '82, yielded but

            439

            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                            [1880-S2

much moment -- to me, at least --that I have reserved it

for separate narration in the next chapter. Too great an

amount of walking, entailed by an expedition into South

Wales during my stay at Standish at Christmas, con

siderably weakened me, and, as I see by entries in my

diary after my return to town, prepared the way for the

mischief which I brought on myself in February.

The only noteworthy occurrence which the beginning

of 1882 brought, is described in the following passage

from a letter dated Feb. 14 :--

   " This morning is marked by a somewhat unusual inci
dent. I received from America, from a naturalized German

named Hegeler, one of the firm of Matthieson and Hegeler,
Zinc Manufacturers of La Salle, Illinois, a long letter in

closing me a bill of exchange for two hundred and odd

pounds. He explained that his immediate reason for send

ing it was that he had read in the Chicago Daily News, that
I am " not                                    "
            in easy financial  circumstances      ;  a  statement

which, I presume, has taken its origin in the announcement

of my loss on the Descriptive Sociology. I am, by this same

post, returning the bill of exchange to Mr. Hegeler, with due

recognition of his generosity, but with the explanation that

there exists no such need as that which he supposes. He

seems, by his account of himself, to have been active in the

endeavour to propagate advanced ideas."

Mr. Hegeler's activity in the direction named was

shown some four years later by founding and supporting

The Open Court --a weekly paper having for its object the

reconciliation of Religion and Science on the basis of

Monism.

   The last chapter of Political Institutions, commenced on
Feb. 13, was not completed till the 24th of March --a de

            440

JEt. 60-62]  POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS

way to be presently described. Early in April the volume
was delivered over to the attention or inattention --chiefly
inattention --of the reviewers.

   I am not sure whether I entertained some hope that the

general doctrine set forth would receive consideration:

probably not much if any. But if I entertained any I was

disappointed. Though this doctrine, being a part of the
general Theory of Evolution, might not unnaturally be
regarded as having an a priori character, yet, since it is
throughout ostensibly based on, and justified by, multi
tudinous facts, it has an inductive warrant which might

have commended it even to those whose reasonings are
limited to inferences from blue books and newspaper
statistics. But conclusions to which men are averse

cannot be made acceptable to them by facts any more
than by arguments ; and Englishmen are averse to con
clusions of wide generality. Not only out of parliament,
among the ignorant, but in parliament, among those sup

posed to be enlightened, such a question as whether there
are or are not any limits to the functions of government
is pooh-poohed as an abstract question not worth dis
cussing. " Practical " wisdom is supposed to lie in the
assumption that an Act of Parliament can do anything,

and that it is foolish to waste time in considering whether
there are "any principles of social life which justify one
kind of legislation and negative another. Perhaps it will

some day be seen --possibly by some it is seen now --that

the question of the proper sphere of government is the
most " practical " of all questions ; and that the fostering
of false ideas concerning the things to be asked for and
expected from the State, is fast leading to a social revolu
tion which threatens to end in re-barbarization.

  If I did look for some acceptance of the leading ideas

                                                  441

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1880-82

set forth in this volume, it was from the men of science

that I looked for it. These general facts, --that in the

course of animal evolution there arises a strong contrast
between the method of co-operation among those organs
which carry on the vital actions, and the method of co

operation among those organs which carry on dealings
with the environment ; and that there arises in the course
of social evolution a kindred contrast between the mode
of co-operation among the industrial structures which
sustain social life, and the structures which perform ac
tions of offence and defence against other societies

(which form the social environment),-- might, I thought,

be recognized by the scientifically cultured, and their sig
nificance perceived. That there results the industrial
type or the militant type according as one or other set of
organs and mode of co-operation predominates ; and that
the phenomena of activity, structure, government, with
the corresponding beliefs and sentiments, are determined

by the relative predominance ; proved to be conceptions
no more appreciated by those who are in the habit of
studying natural causation, than by those to whom nat
ural causation is an unfamiliar thought.

   Beliefs, like creatures, must have fit environments be

fore they can live and grow ; and the environment
furnished by the ideas and sentiments now current, is
an entirely unfit environment for the beliefs which the

442

                       CHAPTER LVI.

                      A GRIEVOUS MISTAKE.

                      1881--82. Mt. 61.

   When something like half the period covered by the

last chapter had elapsed, there occurred an incident which

led to the greatest disaster of my life --a disaster that

resulted from doing more than I ought to have done.

   During many years the materials for the Principles of
Sociology in course of accumulation, had from time to
time shown me the relation which exists between a mili
tancy and a social organization despotic in form and bar
baric in ideas and sentiments while they had simultane
ously shown me the relation which exists between indus
trialism and a freer form of government, accompanied
by feelings and beliefs of just and humane kinds, condu
cive in a higher degree to happiness. Near the end of

Chapter LI I, a passage I have quoted from a letter shows
that in 1879 I had spoken to friends concerning the pos

sibility of doing something towards checking the aggres
sive tendencies displayed by us all over the world -- send
ing, as pioneers, missionaries of " the religion of love,"
and then picking quarrels with native races and taking
possession of their lands. Sympathetic though our con
versations were, they ended without result. Sometime
near midsummer 1881, however, Mr. Frederic Harrison

                                                  443

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  1 1881-82

whether I had thought anything more about the matter.
While writing Political Institutions, I had become still

more profoundly impressed with the belief that the possi

bility of a higher civilization depends wholly on the ces

sation of militancy and the growth of industrialism.

Hence I responded eagerly; and the result was a re

newal of the consultations which had been dropped. Mr.
John Morley joined in them, Mr. Dillwyn, M.P., Pro
fessor Leone Levi, the Rev. Llewelyn Davies, Canon

Fremantle, Mr. Chesson, Col. Osborne, and others. By

request I drew up an address setting forth our aims :

its general idea being that while the doctrine of non-

resistance, on which the Peace Society take their stand,

is quite untenable, the doctrine of non-aggression is ten
able. In July sundry meetings of those interested were
held at the house of Sir Arthur (now Lord) Hobhouse;
and matters were put in train before the close of the Lon

don season.

  All this was in direct contravention of a rule I had laid

down for myself. As shown by the circular quoted in a

preceding chapter, I had, years before, decided to de
cline joining in public movements; and I had, up to this

date, persevered in my refusal to give anything more

than name and money in furtherance of ends of which I
approved. But now my interest was such that I unhap

pily forgot, or disregarded, the prudential considera

tions which had, on all previous occasions, restrained me.

Not, indeed, that I intended to take continuously an
active part. It was obvious that there existed a large

amount of anti-war feeling, especially among the artisan-

class and the great body of dissenters; and the belief

was that if this feeling were provided with some means

444

Mt. 6i]  A GRIEVOUS MISTAKE

movement. I thought it would be practicable to join in

the effort to initiate such a movement, and then leave

others to carry it on. Had not my wishes so possessed

me as to exclude ideas of possible consequences, I

should have seen that I might not improbably be led, in
spite of myself, to do more than I intended.

   In the autumn our meetings were resumed; arrange
ments were gradually matured; further sympathizers

gathered together; and on the 22 of February 1882, we
held a public meeting at the Westminster Palace Hotel.

Being anxious to see a successful start made, I had al

lowed much work to devolve upon me which should have

been undertaken by others. I agreed, contrary to my

original intention, to take part in the meeting, move a
resolution and make a speech. With my narrow margin
of nervous power it was an absurd thing to do; and still

more so to persevere when, as my diary shows, I was,
for several days before, breaking down. But I had put

my hand to the plough and would not turn back. There

was here again illustrated a trait on which I have before

commented--the liability to be tyrannized over by a reso

lution once formed: consciousness becoming so pos

sessed by the end in view that all thought of anything

adverse is excluded.

   Nothing of any moment came of our action. Some

sympathy was expressed by newspapers representing

the dissenters; and I remember one of them said it was

a disgrace to their body that such a movement should
have been initiated by rationalists. Yet neither from
those who are stirred chiefly by religious motives, nor

from those who are stirred chiefly by political motives,

         445

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1881-82

by year filibustering colonists and ambitious officials,
civil and military, were everywhere laying hands on the
territories of neighbouring weaker races (" ' annexing '
the wise call it ")-- though consequent chronic hostilities,
and multiplying salaries to new governors and their
staffs, were continually swelling the national expendi
ture ; yet the elector at home, preoccupied by disputes
about local option, hours of closing public-houses, em
ployers' liabilities, preferential railway rates, and count
less small questions, would give no attention to the fact
that his burdens are being perpetually made heavier, and
his risks more numerous, without his assent or even

his knowledge. And while the average tax-payer,

bourgeois and artisan, thinking only of small proximate

evils, remained indifferent to this great but remote evil,

the organs of the upper classes, ever favouring a policy

which calls for increase of armaments and multiplication
of places for younger sons, ridiculed the supposition that
it was practicable or desirable to restrain those colonial
authorities who yearly commit us unawares to expen
sive wars and additional responsibilities.

   It was, indeed, a foolish hope that any appreciable
effect could be produced under conditions then existing,
and with an average national character like that dis
played. While continental nations were bristling with
arms, and our own was obliged to increase its de

fensive forces and simultaneously foster militant senti

ments and ideas, it was out of the question that an " Anti-
Aggression League " could have any success. While
promotion was accorded, and titles were given, to those
who, in our dependencies, forestalled supposed hostile
intentions of neighbouring tribes by commencing hos

446

/Et. 6i]  A GRIEVOUS MISTAKE

teachers of forgiveness of injuries, uttered no denuncia
tions of the implied maxim -- " Injure others before they
injure you "; it was absurd to expect that any consid
erable number would listen to the prinicple enunciated,

that aggression should be suffered before counter-

aggression is entered upon. With a parliament and peo
ple who quietly look on, or even applaud, while, on flimsy
pretexts, the forces of our already vast Eastern Empire
successfully invade neighbouring States, and then vilify

as " dacoits," i.e. brigands, those who continue to resist
them, the expectation that equitable international con
duct would commend itself was irrational.

   But while no good came of our movement, great evil
came to me. There was produced a mischief which, in

a gradually increasing degree, undermined life and ar
rested work.

   Beyond dictating the last pages of Political Institutions,
nothing was done during the Spring: recovery of health,

not then supposed to be seriously deranged, being the
chief occupation. There were visits of a few days to
Brighton and one to Hastings (where the Busks were
staying), with consequent improvements, and relapses
on return to town and resumption of daily routine. There

was a short sojourn with my friend Lott at Quorn early
in April, and a longer one towards the end of May, dur
ing which he and his belongings accompanied me on a
three days' excursion to Sherwood Forest. Standish,
too, was visited on my way back to town; and with my

stay there this time is associated the remembrance of
a discussion on the question of immortality: the occa
sion for it being the recent death of Mrs. Potter, which

          447

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1881-82

ing. As may be supposed, my position in respect to
the question discussed was agnostic --the position that

on the one hand there is no evidence supporting the be
lief in immortality, and that on the other hand there is

no evidence to warrant denial of it.
   Later in the season occurred a sequence of this visit.

My friend Potter was one of the directors of the Dutch
Rhenish Railway Company; and there had long been
entertained the suggestion that I should some day accom
pany him on one of his visits to Holland to attend the

annual meeting. This year the suggestion took effect.
Going a few days in advance, to renew my recollections
of Antwerp and to give a little time to Ghent and Rotter

dam, I joined my friend and two of his daughters at the

Hague. Our brief stay there was followed by a visit to
Amsterdam, where, as at the Hague, the picture galleries
were seen, and where, of course, many adverse criticisms

were passed by me. Two works only I remember--one

a Burgomaster's feast by Van der Helst, which, unsat

isfactory as a whole (the subject being unfitted for art),
is admirable in many of its faces; the other, Rembrandt's
celebrated " Lesson in Anatomy " at the Hague. This
appeared to me to fail utterly in the essential point of
dramatic truth. Instead of being shown as occupied in
observing the professor's proceedings, or listening to
what he says, or else in some intelligible bye-play, the
students are shown in meaningless attitudes and with
vacant expressions of face, in no way relevant to the

occasion.

   After a day at Utrecht (where the railway meeting was
held), a short sojourn at Cologne, and a voyage up the

Rhine as far as Coblenz, my friends and I parted : they

448

/Et. 6i]        A GRIEVOUS MISTAKE

my face homewards -- taking my route up the Moselle
to Treves to see the Roman remains, going thence to
Metz, and from there via Paris to London.

   No permanent benefit resulted from this any more
than from previous relaxations. There had commenced a

series of descents, severally caused by exceeding my
diminished strength and making it still less, which
brought me down in the course of subsequent years to
the condition of a confirmed invalid, leading little more

than a vegetative life.

  This final result I refer to here, considerably in ad

vance of its date, chiefly for the purpose of pointing a
moral. The occasion is a fit one for criticizing an opin

ion often professed and rarely ever called in question.
   We are told that the pleasurable feeling caused by the

doing of right is itself a sufficient reward for the right
done, and a sufficient compensation for any evil which

doing right entails. Though probably many are con
scious that their experiences do not verify this belief,

isyet the propriety of maintaining                    as well as all beliefs
                     is
                                 is
                                                 it,
which apparently conduce to good conduct, seem so ob

vious that they keep silence. The tacit assumption made

by writers on ethics, and by ordinary people who moralize

on the affairs of life, that only vice brings ill-conse

quences, while virtue always brings good consequences;

and this creed  taught without qualification, though

facts daily prove that wrong-doing often escapes pun

ishment, alike external and internal, (conscience being
callous), while right-doing often brings heavy penalties,
and followed by no such moral satisfaction as appre

ciably mitigate the pains to be borne. Bodies perma

nently enfeebled by self-sacrifices in nursing, minds in

          72 449

                 AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                  [1881-82

jured for life by overwork in fulfilment of responsibilities,

social positions damaged by the conscientious acting-

out of convictions, are constantly thrust on the obser

vation of all; and inquiries, if made, would prove that

the supposed mental content obtained not only forms no

adequate set off to the evils suffered, but commonly

forms no appreciable element in consciousness.

  Certainly this expresses my own experience ; and I
have no reason to suppose it exceptional. If I know

my own motives, the actions I have narrated above were

prompted exclusively by the desire to further human

welfare. Indeed, I do not see how any other construction
can be put upon them. It is obvious that I had nothing

to gain in this world by the implied expenditure of time,

money, and effort; and as I have no belief in anything

to be gained in another world, it cannot be that other-

worldliness moved me. But right though I thought
                                                it
my course brought severe penalties and no compensa
                                                               I it,
tions whatever.  am not thinking only of the weeks,
                 I

                                             a
months, years, of wretched nights and vacant days;

though these made existence long-drawn weariness.

refer chiefly to the gradual arrest and final cessation of
my work; and the consciousness that there was slipping

by that closing part of life during which should have
been completed. For had not been thus incapacitated,
I
             is
                     I
                                   I
the remaining volumes of the Synthetic Philosophy might
by this time have been written and published. What,

then, the quality of the consciousness produced in me

by looking back on this most disastrous incident in my

career? Though still regard with approval the course

took, considered intrinsically, yet contemplating  it,  even

when separated from its consequences, does not produce

                 450

fot. 61]  A GRIEVOUS MISTAKE

this lack of any pleasurable consciousness, there is joined
the painful consciousness of evils entailed, and especially
the consciousness of a great aim missed, the total result

is a feeling the reverse of pleasurable. Habitually shun

ning the recollection, I shy at the rising idea as a horse

shies at an alarming object, and quickly take some other
course of thought. In this case, then, the accepted
dogma is in every way falsified.

   It is best to recognize the facts as they are, and not

try to prop up rectitude by fictions. The first needful i

qualification of the current belief is that the good results
of right conduct can be looked for only in the majority

secof cases, and not in each particular case. And the

ond needful qualification is that it is not the absolutely,
right^conduct,- but the relatively right conduct, from

which, on the average, good results flow -- the conduct

          45'

CHAPTER LVII.

COMING EVENTS.

1881--82. /Et. 61--62.

A letter quoted in the last chapter but one, under

date 13 June, 1881, contained an unquoted passage which

I have reserved for insertion here, as being relevant to

the matters contained in this chapter.  It runs as

follows :--

" After my experience last year in going to and from

Alexandria, on each of which occasions I had a three days

voyage, my fears of sea-travelling in respect of entailed

sleeplessness are somewhat diminished ; and I have of late
been consequently entertaining the thought that I may pos

sibly come over to see you. If so, it will be, I think, in the

latter half of next year."

In the course of the autumn the intention thus indi

cated gained in definiteness, and by-and-bye prompted

preparations; as witness the following extract dated
Jan. 10, 1882: --
" I spent Christmas week with the Potters in Gloucester

shire, and during my stay was led by my friend Potter, who

has been across the Atlantic some dozen times, to take time

by the forelock in respect of a good berth. The result of
our conversation was that he wrote to Cunard's, and that

I have secured a desirable room in the " Servia ", sailing

                            452

JEr. 61-62]  COMING EVENTS

ing should be altered or some disaster should happen to me,

I suppose I shall see you about the 21st or 22nd of August."

Soon afterwards a further arrangement was made. On
Feb. 16, 1 wrote thus:--

" As to my intentions when I arrive in the U.S. they are
Iat present not very decided. . .
                                   must not forget one

piece of intelligence, namely that my intimate friend Edward

Lott, of whom you have heard me speak (I am not quite

sure whether you have seen him) has volunteered to ac
company me, at any rate as far as New York. This will

be a great addition to my pleasure, and should we arrange
for him to join me in part of the tour, he may serve very

advantageously as a buffer : you may depute to him in a

considerable measure the function which you have volun

teered to undertake."

  I suppose it was his constitutional modesty which led

my old friend to make his proposal tentatively, as he

did; but the hesitation was quite uncalled for. He might

have been sure that after a friendship commenced more

than forty years before, the harmony of which had never

for a moment been broken, and during which we had

made together so many excursions, long and short, his

companionship would gratify me more than that of any

one else.

   The project having been matured thus far, various

sequences presently came. Here is one, indicated in a
letter written on March 8, 1882: --

" I see by a copy of the Tribune which he sent me two

days ago, that Smalley has telegraphed particulars concern

ing my visit. Various mis-statements of course are becom

ing current. It is reported over here that I am in financial

difficulties, and am going over to lecture, with a view, it is

                          453

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1881-82

not otherwise know, the degree of likelihood there is of this,

from the fact that a few days ago I received an application

from one of your lecture-bureaux offering me terms up to

$250 per lecture, which I wrote by return of post positively

declining, and saying that no terms they could offer would

tempt me."

   A passage in a letter dated March 29, refers to another

sequence :

" Your suggestion with regard to attending the meeting of
the Association at Montreal, is one which I, of course, yield
to ; especially with the view of supporting you in your

position of Chairman of the Committee of Science Teach

ing, and especially as you say I shall be free to leave if I find

for any reason that it is too much for me.

   I have been considerably knocked up by the worry of this

Anti-Aggression League business, which has chiefly fallen

on my shoulders, and have been in great fear of a prolonged

breakdown. However, I am considerably better and hope

shortly to be all right again."

This hope, alas ! as already indicated in the last chapter,

was doomed to disappointment. I little thought then

that there had been initiated a slow and long descent to

the invalid life of later years. On April 21 I again ex

pressed myself decidely with respect to my intentions.

  " I have already given in the Athenaum an authoritative
contradiction to the rumour that I was about to lecture
during my tour in America, and I do not propose to change
my decision. The reply I gave to one of the lecture bureaux

which made an offer to me, was that neither the offer they

made, nor any other offer, would induce me. I must still

make the same answer. Even the offer of £300 for me to
lecture, which you communicate, fails to alter my resolu

tion. Were lecturing my habit, as in the case of Tyndall

and Huxley, there would be nothing special in my under

454

/Er. 61-62]  COMING EVENTS

would be different. But as matters stand, the giving a

lecture or reading a paper, would be nothing more than

making myself a show; and I absolutely decline to make

myself a show.

   What I do while with you I mean to make entirely subor
dinate to relaxation and amusement ; and I shall resist posi

tively anything which in any considerable way entails on

me responsibilities or considerable excitements. I suppose
you have long ago discovered that I have a faculty of saying
No, and that when I say No I mean No."

   Referring to the same subject, a letter of June 21
says :--

" With respect to the proposed public dinner, I must, I pre
sume, assent. To decline would be awkward ; and as I

propose to limit myself a good deal in the way of social

intercourse and receptions, I must, I conclude, yield to some

arrangement which shall replace more detailed entertain

ments."

   Would that my boasted ability to say " No " had been

more fully justified ! Now, when I look back, I recog

nize sundry occasions on which failure of this ability en

tailed mischievous results.

   The ensuing six weeks brought no incident of moment

not already named. Relaxations and excursions which
I trusted would restore my lost balance failed to do this.
A letter of July 21 says: --

" Though better, I am still not up to much work. I am look

ing forward to the voyage and my visit with you to raise me
to a higher level of vigour."

   The hope thus implied was not a very rational one.

Had I called to mind past results of the wear and tear of
travel, I should have anticipated mischief rather than

             455

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1881-82

of health, the expedition would have been of doubtful

prudence, and in my then debilitated state it was de

cidedly imprudent.
   But here was another case in which a plan once fixed

upon becomes a tyrant over me, and dictates persistence
regardless of consequences. Under the circumstances

which had arisen I ought to have abandoned the pro

jected voyage, and sacrificed my double passage money

(I had taken a state-room all to myself, not daring to risk

the additional hindrances to sleep entailed by the pres

ence of a fellow-passenger) : at the same time reimburs
ing my friend Lott for his bootless outlay. But such a

course did not, I believe, even occur to me, and I unhes

itatingly occupied the early part of August in completing

my preparations.

  On the 10th I went down to Liverpool to spend a day
or two with the Holts, who had kindly proposed that I

456

                    CHAPTER LVIII.

                       A VISIT TO AMERICA.

                         1882. JEt. 62.

   Paraphrasing a familiar remark, one may say,--

Happy are the voyagers whose narratives are dull. Ours
answered to this description. It was prosperous, and
without noteworthy incident. Of entries in my diary, one
made on the 16th, after only four days at sea, shows my
constitutional impatience -- " Getting very much bored."
On the 19th there is the entry -- " Magnificent sunset ;

the finest in colour I ever saw." And a wretched night,

noted on the 18th, was accompanied by the remark --
" Terrific disturbance from fog-whistle."

   This last entry reminds me of an error I had made.
It will scarcely be said of me that I usually accept current

statements without sufficient criticism; but even I am

not infrequently misled by too readily giving credence.

It is commonly alleged that a berth amid-ships is the

best, because the motion from pitching is there the

smallest ; and the berth which I took in the " Servia "
was in this position. I quite forgot that, as I am a good

sailor (I had not a qualm either going or returning),

avoidance of much motion was of secondary moment,
and that for me a state-room in the bow, where the
noises are least, was the most desirable. The result of

                                                  457

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

whistle, which was just over my head, but by other loud
sounds, my ordinarily bad sleep was made more broken

than ever.

   A climax was put to the mischief on the last night.

We arrived too late to reach the wharf, and had to lie
off Staten Island. Here the raising of the baggage and

cargo, in preparation for landing in the morning, gave

me, as my diary says, "a horrible night from noises;"

so that, when my friend Youmans came on board at 7
on the morning of the 21st to welcome me, he found me

in an unusually dilapidated state.

  " I had to remind myself when entering a shop that it

was not needful to speak French ", said Lott a day or

two after, a propos of the foreign aspect of the houses.

It is the older part of New York which yields this im

pression, due, I suppose, to the prevalence of green

Venetian-blind shutters, like those which prevail on the

Continent.

   Soon, however, when we reached its modern parts, the

feeling produced by the aspect of New York was one of
surprise at its magnificence. Thinking of it chiefly as

a centre of business-activity, and perhaps unduly in

fluenced by much that I had read about its ill-paved
streets, I had conceived the place as having small pre

tensions to architectural beauty; and was consequently

unprepared for the multitude of imposing edifices. My
diary says --" Am astonished by the grandeur of New
York ". We have nothing to compare with Fifth

Avenue.
   Prof, and Mrs. Youmans had expected me to be their

guest, and had made arrangements for my friend Lott

458

JEt. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

But I was obliged to disappoint them. In my shattered
state I dared not undertake the social responsibilities

which would have been entailed, even in the absence of

visitors. And then the interviewers had to be avoided.

These quickly made their appearance, and, though put

off for a time by the statement that I was too unwell to

see anyone, would have soon returned. The result was
that before the day was over, we migrated to the Wind
sor Hotel ; where, my companion having a great faculty

for silence when need was, I felt in his company safe

against excitement.
   Next day was spent in making preparations for our

tour ; and the morning after saw us on our way to a place
of rest, which was so needful to me.

   The first part of our journey was by steamer up the
Hudson, which scarcely reached my expectations, save
about West Point, where it is picturesque. Leaving it
at Rondout Ferry, we went thence by railway and vehicle
to the Kaarterskill Hotel -- the place Youmans had fixed

upon for us. Some 3,000 feet above the sea, this is one

of those refuges to which the Americans fly in July and
August from the heats of their cities. Here five days

were passed beneficially.

   The entry we made in the hotel-book was-- " Mr.
Edward Lott and friend": the intention being to avoid
salutations and inquiries. Of course this mode of entry
was in itself suspicious; and though the New York

papers had given no clue (for they had been successfully

mystified respecting my movements), the host and some
of the guests, when the time for our departure came, said
that from the beginning they had known who the

          459

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [188a

they had respected the incognito. We did not repeat the

device, which was obviously useless.

   Our rambles during the few days' stay on the top of
this mountain (or big hill, rather, for the Catskills have

not that ruggedness which the word mountains sug
gests) made us acquainted, among other things, with a

portion of virgin forest. I was shown how erroneous
was my preconception. In common, I daresay, with the

preconceptions of most others, mine had been based on

experiences of woods at home; and I had failed to

imagine an important trait, of which we see nothing in
England -- the cumbering of the ground on every side

with the decaying, moss-covered trunks of past genera
tions of trees, lying prone, or leaning one upon another

at various angles, and in all stages of decay.
   While sitting on a ledge of rock facing the East, and

looking over the wide country stretching away to the
horizon beyond the Hudson, it was interesting to think
that here we were in a land we had read about all our

lives --interesting, and a little difficult, to think of it as

some three thousand miles from the island on the other

side of the Atlantic whence we had come. Not easy was

it either, and indeed impossible in any true sense, to con

ceive the real position of this island on that vast surface
which slowly curves downward beyond the horizon: the

impossibility being one which I have vividly felt when

gazing sea-ward at the masts of a vessel below the
horizon, and trying to conceive the actual surface of the
Earth, as slowly bending round till its meridians met

eight thousand miles beneath my feet : the attempt pro
ducing what may be figuratively called a kind of mental
choking, from the endeavour to put into the intellectual

460

Mt. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

  I may remark, in passing, that it is well occasionally

thus to do, what nine hundred and ninety-nine in a thou

sand never think of doing--to dwell awhile on such im
aginations as we can frame of those vast cosmical phe
nomena amid which " our little lives " are passed -- to
think, for example, that while the eye has been passing
from the beginning of this line to the end of the Earth
has travelled thirty miles
         aa
              a

                                        !

                                         a

                                                             it,

                                                                                     a
On August 29, drive, a short railway-journey, ferry

passage, and longer railway-journey, brought us to

Albany, where few hours were spent: mainly in seeing

the Capitol. In fulfilment of pre-arrangement we then

went on to Saratoga.

The pre-arrangement was that Prof. Youmans and

his wife would meet us there. We found them at the

United States Hotel, which my American friend wished

me to see as unique --" said to be the biggest hotel in the

world -- 1500 guests," as my diary notes. The sight was,

however, partially thrown away on me.  have vague
                      :

                             I
                                                          ;

                                                   a

                                        I

                                                                   a
recollection of the vast dining-room with its long ranges

of tables and multitudinous persons but the persons

themselves left no impression.  am bad observer of

humanity in the concrete being too much given to wan

dering off into the abstract. My habit of falling into

trains of thought at variance with the habit of watch
         I is
ing people around. suppose lack good deal of knowl
                      I

                                    aa

                                  I
                                     I

                                               I
edge to be hence derived, and lose good deal of amuse
ment. In these latter years, especially, find that con

template so little the faces of those whom see at parties

or elsewhere, that several meetings are commonly needful

to make me remember them. Naturally, then, did not
                                       I

                      461

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

American fashionables. Neither their manners nor their

costumes, both of which would, I suppose, have called

remarks from most people, called any remarks from me.

Costumes, indeed, I usually notice so little that, unless
they are very good or very bad, I retain not the slightest
recollections of them. A simple dress which is elegant

without the appearance of effort, and a dress which is

tawdry, or discordant in its colours, or bad from over-

elaboration, I occasionally remark. But unless as pre

senting one or other of these extremes, the attire of no

lady at a dinner party or soiree ever leaves the slightest

trace in my memory. Such attention as I give is given

to the wearers and not to their clothes.

  One person whom I saw, however, and one criticism
which I passed on him, I do remember. Walking about

the hotel garden was a railway magnate, said to be one
of the wealthiest of Americans. He was a coarse-

featured man ; and, I was told, had manners to match.
Before I left England, one who had business-relations

with him offered me a letter of introduction ; saying that,

if I behaved civilly and went to dine with him, he would
probably give me a free pass over the railways. But I

preferred not to accept the introduction.

   Two days sufficed for Saratoga ; and on the morning

of Sept. 1 we departed northwards by railway to Lake

St. George, and by steamer to itr upper end: being ac
companied so far by Mr. and Mrs. Youmans, who there

bade us good-bye and returned home. Lake St . George
is the most picturesque thing I saw in the United States.

Three of our English lakes placed end to end would be

something like it in extent and scenery. A steamer up

462

JEt. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

of the afternoon ; and the afternoon of the next day saw
us on our way to Canada. Mr. lies, the manager of the
Windsor Hotel, had some months before written pressing

me to stay there when I visited Montreal. He came to a

station some distance down the line to meet us, and

piloted us thence to our destination. During the few
days of our stay, we were treated by him en prince.

   The meeting of the British Association had ended be
fore our arrival. On the whole this was fortunate ; for,

probably, had it been going on, further mischiefs would

have been added to those which I had suffered. The

sights of Montreal and its surroundings remained the
sole attractions. There was the ascent of the hill which
gives its name to the place-- Mount Royal ; there was a
drive up the banks of the St. Lawrence to the Lachine

rapids ; and there were the noteworthy buildings of the

city itself.

  To many travellers these would, I dare say, have given
more pleasure than they gave to me ; for I failed to

exclude the thought of certain antecedents not in har
mony with a feeling of admiration. For a generation or
more Canadians have been coming to England for capital

to make their great lines of railway ; and have put before

English investors statements of costs and profits so

favourable, that they have obtained the required sums.
These statements have proved far more wide of the truth

than such statements usually prove -- so wide of it that
the undertakings have been extremely disastrous to in

vestors : impoverishing great numbers, and ruining not
a few (my poor friend Lott becoming, eventually, one of
these last, and dying prematurely in consequence). But

while, to open up these communications which have been

          463

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                           [1882

the Canadians have, by exaggerated representations, got
from the mother-country resources which they were sup
posed unable to furnish themselves, they have yet been
able to build imposing cities full of magnificent man
sions, and at Montreal an hotel far exceeding in grandeur
anything the mother-country could, at that time, show.

   Sunday and Monday having been passed at Montreal,
half a day on Tuesday carried us by the Grand Trunk

railway to Brockville ; where, crossing the St. Lawrence,
we got on board a steamer bound for Alexandra Bay-- a
place built for visitors to " The Thousand Islands." Here

the morrow was spent with much pleasure, partly in a

hired boat which took us amid the islands near at hand,

and partly in an excursion-steamer which made a run of

some forty miles, it was said, through the remoter isl
ands. How the region could have been formed --how the

St. Lawrence could have cut these multitudinous chan

nels, dividing tree-covered masses of rock of all sizes, --

it is difficult to understand. But it is the romance of the

scene which chiefly impresses one. Obviously this trait

has prompted inhabitation ; for here a small hotel, and
there a villa, peeps out amid the trees. It has become the

fashion among wealthy Americans to have one of these

small water-guarded areas as a summer abode: grati

fication being doubtless given to a sentiment which is act

ive during boyhood and is not altogether dead in adult life.

Picking us up next day, a steamer for Toronto carried
us through another region of " The Thousand Islands,"
and presently on to Lake Ontario. " In the afternoon
we came unto " a town, in which it could not be said that
" it                             "
      seemed  always  afternoon      ;  but  in  which,  contrari

                      464

Mt. 62]               A VISIT TO AMERICA

was Kingston, where the steamer stopped for a time to

take in wood. We rambled about and found, to our

astonishment and shame, that though containing only ten

or twelve thousand people, Kingston had the telephone in

use all over the place. I say " to our shame ", because

at that time (1882), the telephone was scarcely used at all

in London, and was unknown in our great provincial

towns. I have sometimes puzzled myself over the

anomaly that while, in some ways, the English are ex

tremely enterprising, they are, in other ways, extremely

unenterprising. I remember that in 1868 the hotel I

stopped at in Naples had electric bells to all the rooms ;

though in England no such appliances had come within

the range of my observation. While there exist a select

few among us who are full of ideas, the great masses of

our people appear to be without ideas. Or, to state the

case otherwise, it seems as if the English nature (I say
English, because I do not assert it of either Scotch or

Irish) exhibits a wider range than any other nature be-
                                                                         1
between  its heights  of intelligence  and  its  depths  of
                                                             ssttuu-J

pidity.

A night spent on board the steamer while traversing

Lake Ontario, was followed by the arrival at Toronto

before mid-day; and, after a few hours spent there, an

other steamer took us across the lake to Niagara. Thence,

after a brief railway-journey, we reached the Falls.

" Much what I had expected " is the remark in my

diary. That is, the Falls neither came short of my ex
Ipectations nor much exceeded them.
                                                 think, however,

that the effect of closer acquaintance was to deepen the

impression of grandeur. With the intermission of a day

at Buffalo, a week was spent in contemplating the scene

         73 465

                        AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                           [1882

and its surroundings from all points of view. We saw
everything that was to be seen, including the " Cave of
            "
the  Winds      ;  and  saw  it  with  the  deliberation  needful  for

full. appreciation .and enjoyment.

  I was a good deal at a loss to understand the denuding

action by which the falls have cut their way back so far.

Often where streams make deep gorges, they do it by the

aid of stones and gravel swept down in times of flood,

and serving to file the rocks. But at Niagara no hard

masses are habitually carried over by the water to act as

excavating tools ; and though, a mile lower down, the

rapids are violent enough to carry along great rocks if

they came, yet the intervening space of water has a cur

rent so moderate that it could not carry along even

boulders. How then is the material cut out, and in what

shape transported? There seems no alternative but to

conclude that the denuding force is the unaided impact

of the water on the rocks at the bottom of the fall. The

fall is 160 feet high ; and it is calculated that it delivers

100,000,000 tons of water per hour, or more than 27,000

tons per second. As it curls over, this mass of water is

probably some 20 feet thick ; and though, before reaching

the bottom of the water below, perhaps 30 or 40 feet
down, its superficial parts must lose a good deal of their

velocity, yet its central parts are probably not much re

tarded. At the bottom, this mass of water is subject to

a lateral pressure of, say, fifteen pounds to the square

inch ; so that though, ordinarily, a stream falling on a

hard surface disperses itself laterally, this mass of water

is in great measure prevented from thus dispersing itself.

Hence the rocks on which it falls have to bear the brunt

of, say, 20,000 tons per second moving with a velocity of

                                 466

for. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

the continuous blow is so violent that simple abrasion

detaches particles from the surfaces of the rocks and the
current carries them away. Though the Clifton Hotel, at
which we stayed, is probably a third of a mile from the
Great Fall, and though my bedroom was on the opposite

side of the building, its windows were in a state of con
stant jar; and, doubtless, this tremendous impact was the

cause.

   I have omitted to say that the morning after our arrival

Prof. Youmans and his sister, having travelled all night
from New York, came to bear us company for a few
days. Their presence added much to the enjoyments of

our sojourn.

   Chicago, at which place Lott had some relatives, was
to have been the western limit of our tour; but my state

was such that I dared not undertake so long a journey.
I urged my friend to proceed thither without me: pro

posing to stay at Niagara till his return, and representing
that the company of Miss Youmans would keep me alive.

But I could not persuade him: he insisted on remaining

to take care of me.

   Our first stopping-place after leaving the Falls on Sept.

16, was Cleveland ; respecting which my diary says --

" walked about ; surprised by the display and bustle " in
so new a place. After Cleveland came Pittsburg, boasted
of as the smokiest town in the world.

   Why Cleveland and why Pittsburg? may naturally be
asked. The answer carries me back to our voyages across
the Atlantic. On the Servia's tender at Liverpool, a
letter of introduction was handed to me by Mr. Andrew
Carnegie, whose iron works at Pittsburg, aided in their

          467

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

He pressed me to visit him at Cresson, a place on the
Alleghanies, like the Kaarterskill Hotel on the Catskills,

Iused as a summer refuge by over-heated Americans.

eventually yielded to the pressure ; and our journey
through Cleveland to Pittsburg was in fulfilment of the

promise made.
   The repulsiveness of Pittsburg led me to break through

my resolution always to stop at an hotel ; and in the

evening we drove with Mr. Carnegie to the house of his
brother a few miles out. After we had inspected his
works next day, he took us by special carriage, which to
my great comfort contained a sleeping compartment, to
Cresson. It was now the 19th of September; the summer
heats were over ; the visitors had gone home ; the hotel
was closed ; and Mr. Carnegie's annexe was unavail
able. He took us to an old-fashioned inn at " Mountain
Top." His departure after a day spent in showing us
the neighbourhood, and our departure after a day spent
in visiting the little town of Ebensburg, were followed by
descent of the Eastern flank of the Alleghanies to Harris-
burg. To a day spent in rambling about this not-very-
interesting town, succeeded a railway-journey to Wash

ington.

   Whether the fact that the President (or rather the
Vice-President, for Mr. Garfield was dead) was away at
Newport, prompted the decision to go direct to Wash

ington without stopping at Baltimore, I cannot remem
ber; but I remember that his absence was a cause of

satisfaction to me. Aversion to ceremonial interviews I

have before exemplified as a trait of mine. Partly this is
due to dislike of formalities, and partly to a disinclination

to converse with strangers. Under ordinary circumr

                                             468

/ET. 6i]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

stances, thinking is to me more pleasurable than talking;

and hence, in the absence of an interlocutor in whom I

feel interest, I am not tempted to talk. Some sentiment

of friendship or personal regard is requisite to make con
versation preferable.

   The sights of Washington of course received due
attention. We visited the White House, though not its
occupant; we went over the Capitol, and paused for a

few minutes in its then empty legislative chambers ; with
Major Powell as our guide we perambulated the Smith
sonian Institution and its surroundings ; we contemplated
the Washington monument, then in course of erection ;

and we did some justice to the suburbs. One of our days
was of course devoted to an excursion up the Potomac to
Mount Vernon, famous as Washington's home and burial

place; where some hours were spent in looking over

rooms and relics, and wandering about the grounds. I

remember we were astonished at seeing a place planted
with slips of willow notified as having been brought from I
Napoleon's tomb in St. Helena. The incongruity struck

us both as passing strange.
   Was it at Washington, or was it elsewhere, or was it at

all places, that I was struck with the passion of the

Americans for iced water? Not only does it come up at
every meal, but even in the middle of the night it must

be made accessible : the habit being to place in the mouth

of a jug a wedge-shaped piece of ice too large to go in,
and with its narrow end downwards, so that, thawing all
night and dripping into the jug, it insures an ever-ready
supply of water just above freezing point. Evidently the
origin of this habit is the need for a sensation, which in
one form or other is universal. Everyone dislikes food

          469

            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                       [1882

condiments and sweetening agents are resorted to.

Drinks that have flavours, sweet or bitter, are preferred

to tasteless drinks ; and, if a liquid not otherwise attrac

tive is taken, then it must be not tepid, but decidedly hot

or decidedly cold. But why have the Americans espe

cially become such lovers of iced water? Possibly the

prevalent disuse of alcoholic drinks, which yield the re

quired sensations, and which one scarcely ever sees at

table in the hotels, is the cause. The sensation of taste

being ungratified, the sensation of temperature  is,as far
                                                      is
as possible, substituted for it.

There can, think, be little doubt that the habit an
            I
injurious one. In the first place, taking an amount of
                     is
liquid much exceeding that required for carrying on the

bodily functions, pretty certain to be detrimental and
                                           a
in the second place, frequently taking this at tempera
                                                  It ;

                                                            is is
ture so much below blood-heat, also pretty certain to be
                                  ; is
detrimental by continually checking digestion, which

temporarily arrested by an influx of cold liquid.

true that upon occasion cold liquid may, by reaction,

stimulate the gastric circulation but perpetually exciting

the blood-vessels to reactions inevitably produces in

them an abnormal state, resulting in chronically de
                                        a

ficient circulation.

;  Our arrival at Baltimore in the evening of the 28th was
         ;followed next morning by the arrival of Youmans from
New York. Whether my state of health would negative

the proposed public dinner, had remained an undecided
question and he came over to see what was now my
state and my decision. Some improvement had taken
place and though in my diary entries of " bad nights,"

                         470

/£t. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

better nights had increased. Hence I thought I might

venture; and, returning to New York, he thereafter

busied himself in making preparations.
    We went to the Mount Vernon Hotel, which was, to

my thinking, the best we met with in the United States:

moderate in size (small, indeed, according to the Ameri

can standard) and well appointed. I detest big hotels,

with vast crowds of guests : not liking to feel myself a

mere unit mechanically manipulated in a great machine.

I believe that at the Mount Vernon Hotel, as elsewhere,

the waiters, negro and half-caste, were considerably sur
prised by my disregard of their dictations. Clothed with

a little brief authority, they delight in exercising it ; and,

in the hotels everywhere, habitually fix on this or that
table for a guest in a peremptory kind of way. Avoid
ance of draught, obtainment of light, or other reason,

often led me to ignore the choice made for me, where no

claims of other guests were in question. Evidently the
waiters were unused to this; for Americans commonly

make no demurs either to the bedrooms assigned to them

by the clerk at the bureau, or to the tables they are

motioned to by the head-waiter. The English have the

repute among them of being grumblers, and I believe I

fully maintained the character.

   One of the things I saw in Baltimore was the Johns

Hopkins University, which Prof. Sylvester, then engaged
there, took us over; but the thing which gave me most
pleasure was the Peabody Institute, remarkable for its
architectural beauty, especially in the interior. The

library struck me as combining use and beauty in a man

ner perfectly satisfactory. I can recall nothing equal
to it. The name of the architect, which I inquired, has

          471

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                                      [1882

   Some years before, I had met in England Mr. J. W.

Garrett, President of the Baltimore and Ohio Railway.
He lived in Baltimore during the winter, and in summer
at his residence, Montebello, a few miles out. We drove

over ; and by pressure I was induced to break through my
rule of taking up my abode at an hotel. We spent at

Montebello five pleasant and beneficial days : lounging

in the garden, driving, and on one occasion being taken
down the upper part of Chesapeake Bay by our host in a
private steamer. As a relaxation he had taken to breed

ing horses, and was proud of his stud. He had many
men engaged in making a private race-course, on which
to test the speed of his colts.

   Mr. Garrett exhibited the results, so common in Amer
ica, of over-work. When I saw him in England I sup
posed that he was ten years or more my senior; but I
found, to my astonishment, that he was my junior. To
the satisfaction of his wife, I began to preach to him the
gospel of relaxation -- a gospel on which, a few weeks
later, I enlarged in public at greater length.

   Poor man ! he did not live long to carry on either

work or amusement. Some three years after, Mrs.

Garrett, thrown from her carriage, died in a few days,

and he, chronically out of health, succumbed to the

shock.

The next stage in our journey brought us to Phila

delphia. To of course, some days were to be devoted.
I

      it,
                                     it

                                                   a
Mr. G. W. Childs, who makes                           point to entertain all

notables, would have had us stay with him, but from

doing this excused myself. In various ways, however,

he conduced to our convenience. Mr. Cook, the corre

472

J&r. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

           and Mr. Childs' carriage being at our disposal, we saw

            what was to be seen at our ease.

              There were the extensive engine works of Messrs.
           Baldwin, where they are said to turn out a complete
           locomotive engine per day. There was the magnificent
          park, in a drive through which Prof. Leidy was our com
          panion. There was an excursion up and down the Dela
          ware River, in a steamer which Mr. Roberts, President
          of the Philadelphia Railway, placed at our disposal.
          There was the Girard College, extensive and well-

           appointed, but subjecting its boys to a mechanical, co
          ercive kind of discipline which called forth from me a

         strong expression of disapproval. I hoped the official

          who showed us round would communicate it to those in

           authority.

            Some immense municipal buildings were, I remember,
        among the attractions of the city. I was told by Mr.

          Childs that there existed a committee of citizens formed

x f for the purpose of putting a check on the extravagance

        of the local authorities ; and I believe that in some other
        American cities there are like committees. A generation

           ago it was commonly thought that democracy was, and

          would be, economical ; since nothing could be more obvi
          ous than that when the people had power, they would
          not tolerate the wasteful expenditure of the money which
          they furnished. But experience is not verifying this
          a priori conclusion in America, and is not verifying it
          with us.

   One more railway-journey, bringing us to New York,
completed the tour we had made during the seven weeks
of our absence. On looking at the map and seeing how

          473

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

Ithe States not even approached by us, felt astonished,

and almost alarmed, at the vastness of the society we
were in. To be told that the dividing line between East
and West, on the two sides of which the populations

balance, is fast approaching the Mississippi, amazes one

on remembering how short a time it is since the coun
tries to the west of the Mississippi were inhabited only by
Indians. Clearly, at the present rate of progress (unless
internal dissensions should cause separation, which is
quite possible), the United States will very soon be by far
the most powerful nation in the world.

   Our experiences of travel did not verify the impres
sions derived from books read in past years. Intrusive-
ness was a trait of Americans described and exemplified ;

but we found none of it. I cannot remember one occa

sion on which we were addressed by fellow-travellers,
the only intrusiveness was that of the interviewers, who,
in fulfilment of their functions, tried, at various places, to

see me. As I had anticipated, my friend Lott served

as an admirable buffer, and in all cases pleaded, truly

enough, that I was not sufficiently well to be visible. As

they could not interview me they sometimes interviewed
him ; and on one occasion he figured in the report as my

" leonine friend ". I can understand his calm, massive

face, and large beard, suggesting the epithet ; and prob
ably when occasion called for it he might be leonine
enough in action ; but in my long experience of him he

had proved himself a very pacific lion.
   Interviewers when baulked are apt to be disagreeable.

Feeling bound to make some report, they pick up such
details as they can from servants, and are not over par
ticular respecting the trustworthiness of their informants.

474

fot. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

doings, food and habits, anything which admits of having

a ludicrous aspect given to it is made the most of.

   After my return to New York, I named to Youmans

some of the annoying things that had been said : among
others a reported opinion of mine about an English

author then in America. It was purely fictitious; and I

remarked that it would be almost worth while to have
an interview for the purpose of contradicting these false
statements. " By all means," said he, -- " let me interview

you." I acceded to the suggestion, and next morning

was appointed for the purpose. The result was, how

ever, that I practically interviewed myself. Two in

stances excepted, the questions as well as the answers

were my own. Ever ready to make the best of the occa
sion, Youmans had this seeming-interview set up in type,
and distributed impressions to the New York papers, and,

in advance, to the Chicago papers. Hence it appeared

simultaneously in whole or in part in many of them : so

being unlike an ordinary interview, which is the product
of the reporter for a single paper. Of course my re
marks, after my manner, were mainly critical ; and while
not failing to recognize the greatness of American
achievements, consisted largely of adverse comments on

their political life. Nevertheless they were well received :

I suppose because they were seen to be the criticisms of a

friend anxious for American prosperity, rather than of an
enemy prompted by a dislike for their institutions.

   New York had now to be seen ; for of course the day
we spent in it after our arrival enabled us only to glance
at some of its main thoroughfares. The Central Park

was explored and much admired ; there were two excur
sions to Brooklyn ; some of the centres of business were

          475

         AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

Century Club, and some at the Lotus Club ; and we went
to one or two theatres and admired the acting, which we
had not done at Washington or Philadelphia.

   But we had still to see something of the New England

States ; and after nine days in New York we departed

northwards.

it,Our first stopping-place was New Haven, where a
                                         ismorning was devoted to inspecting Yale College, and
more especially Prof. Marsh's collection of remains of
                                             itmarvellous fossil mammals from the far West. Then in

                                                                                                                                      ;the afternoon we pursued our course to Newport, which
we had been told before leaving England was one of the
places to be visited. The chief reason assigned for visit;
ing however -- namely, that was the summer resort
      a
of the fashionable world--was no longer in force for

the season was over. This we did not regret. The place
has some natural attractions, and, as being composed
mainly of scattered villas, more like Bournemouth than
any other of our watering-places. Six pleasant and bene

ficial days were spent there.
   And now of course came Boston, to which we took our

way on Oct. 28th, occasionally admiring as we went the
fine masses of gorgeous autumn foliage.

   The day of our departure for Boston was determined
by an invitation to dine with the Saturday Club; which

we did few hours after our arrival. At this weekly

dinner there had for many preceding years been gathered
the chief notabilities of Boston and its neighbourhood --
especially Concord. Until recently Emerson had pre
sided and now the president was Dr. O. W. Holmes.
The " Autocrat of the Breakfast Table " proved himself

         476

JEt. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

to meet, in company with others less known, one whose

writings had given me so much pleasure, and some copies

of whose best known book I had given to friends as a

book to be read and re-read.

   Of course among Bostonians, one who had done so
much as an expositor of the Synthetic Philosophy -- Mr.
John Fiske--was the first to whom attention was due ; and

we early went over to the suburb, Cambridge, where

he lives. After luncheon with him we called on Prof. Asa
Gray, and saw something of the Botanical Garden before
our return to Boston and our evening at the Union Club.
Exploring and admiring the city occupied us the follow
ing morning--ascending the Bunker Hill monument, vis
iting the Eastern suburbs &c. The day after came a visit
to the Museum of Arts, and then an inspection of Har
vard, with Fiske as our guide ; and subsequently a drive
with him through Longworthy and the Western suburbs.

   Some two hours next day were spent at Lexington,
which Lott was anxious to see as a typical New England
village; and then we continued our journey to Concord.
Our chief purpose was of course to visit Emerson's house ;
and here a pleasant hour was spent in company with his
widow, son, and daughter. We were then taken to the
cemetery. Not many months had passed since Emerson's

death, and the grave-heap was undistinguished by any
monument. " Sleepy Hollow " is so beautiful and poet
ical a spot as to make one almost wish to die at Concord
for the purpose of being buried there.

   And now there occurred a disaster. We were in danger

of losing the train, and I thoughtlessly ran some distance
at full speed. The effort, which I perceived at the
moment was too much for me, did great, and I believe

          477

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

wretched as to prompt the immediate resolution to leave

Boston and its excitements ; and, sending to Dr Holmes,
with whom I was to dine, an apology for breaking the
engagement, we forthwith went back to Newport. This

step was taken in the hope that a little quiet would restore

me: its promptness being due to the consciousness that
the time for the dinner was approaching.

   Five days did a little, but only a little, towards
mitigating the mischief. The dinner was appointed for
the 9th ; and on the afternoon of the 8th we were obliged
to depart for New York.

   The prospect before me was sufficiently alarming. An

occasion on which, more perhaps than on any other in

my life, I ought to have been in good condition, bodily
and mental, came when I was in a condition worse than I

had been for six-and-twenty years. " Wretched night ;
no sleep at all ; kept in room all day ", says my diary ;

and I entertained " great fear I should collapse." When

the hour came for making my appearance at Delmonico's,

where the dinner was given, I got my friends to secrete
me in an ante-room until the last moment, so that I

might avoid all excitements of introductions and con
gratulations ; and as Mr. Evarts, who presided, handed
me on to the dais, I begged him to limit his conversation

with me as much as possible, and to expect very meagre

responses.

   The event proved that, trying though the tax was,

there did not result the disaster I feared ; and when Mr.

Evarts had duly uttered the compliments of the occasion,
I was able to get through my prepared speech without

difficulty, though not with much effect ; for I have no

478

JEt. 62]  A VISIT TO AMERICA

pressive utterance I may have was in abeyance. It goes
without saying that I diverged a good deal from the form

of response customary on such occasions. While setting
out with a due recognition of my indebtedness to Amer

ican sympathy, my address was mainly devoted to a criti
cism of American life, as characterized by over-devotion

to work. The thesis on which I enlarged was that life is

not for learning nor is life for working, but learning and
working are for life. And a corollary was that the future
has in store a new ideal, differing as much from the

present ideal of industrialism as that ideal differs from

past ideal of militancy.

  Of the proceedings which followed I need only say that

they were somewhat trying to sit through. Compliments,

even when addressed to one privately, do not give unal

loyed pleasure. To be wholly pleasing, they must be
indirect or more or less disguised. As may be imagined,

then, unqualified eulogies uttered by one speaker after

another before an audience to whose inquiring glances

I was exposed on all sides, were not quite easy to bear--

especially in my then state. However, they had to be

borne, and by and by I became tolerably callous. When
I have said that everything passed off to the entire satis
faction of my friend Youmans, I have sufficiently indi

cated the success of the dinner and its sequences. Ready,
as usual, to make capital of everything, he prepared a
little volume in which were published together the " In
terview " and the report of the proceedings of the dinner,

joined with letters and undelivered speeches.

   Rest and preparations for departure occupied the next

day; and then, on the nth November, after lunching

          479

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY  [1882

our first -- we went on board the " Germanic." Various

friends and a sprinkling of strangers were there to see us

off. Among these last was one who drew me into con

versation concerning a recent election in which the
" bosses " had been defeated, and asked my opinion about
the result ; which, taken unawares, I gave without much

thought. It afterwards occurred to me that I had been

out-manceuvered ; and my suspicion was verified on our

arrival at Queenstown, where, among many newspapers

delivered to me, I found some which contained a tele
graphic statement of the opinion I had expressed. Thus
I was, after all, interviewed at the last moment.

  Concerning our return-voyage I need say no more than

is said in the following passages from a letter written

on Nov. 25, after our arrival in England.
   " Everything on the " Germanic " was satisfactory --at

tendance good, cuisine admirable, the state-room reserved

for me the best possible, and every attention paid to my

wishes. The only danger I ran was that resulting from the
kindness of American friends. When I got down to my
state-room I found that their hospitalities had not ceased,

but were pursuing me out into the Atlantic ! There were

presents of flowers, fruit, wine, brandy, oysters, in quan

tities beyond the possibility of consumption. So that joined
with the excellent fare of the " Germanic," there resulted

some risk of excess. I was reminded by antithesis of the

title of a book published some time ago, Plain Living and
High Thinking; for high living and plain thinking would
fitly have described my regimen. However, if the ocean

would have continued its good behaviour to the last, I should

have gained greatly notwithstanding."

This is preceded by a paragraph which gives some

480

for. 62]                          A VISIT TO AMERICA

ture statement of results. At the time that I wrote
                                                             a    in

preparation for the               delivery at Queenstown                   it,
ing, the " Germanic               " was rolling so much                       I
                                                           the next morn
                                                          in gale that

had to hold the inkstand from sliding off the table. The

previous night the rolling, though less, had been such as to

keep me awake good part of the night and the night which
1                                       ;

                               a                   a

                                                            9)

                                                          I
now followed being much worse, (Cyclones are numbered

to 12 in point of strength, and ours was No.                      got

no sleep until we were under the lee of the Irish coast,

about three or four in the morning. Then the third night

was worse still. We were too late to pass the bar of the

Mersey, and, anchoring outside, where thought was going
                                        I
                                                     I

to have quiet night, got literally no sleep, in consequence
          a

                           I

first of the riot kept up by some men who were having fare

well convivialities in their cabin, and afterwards by the

noises which went on nearly all through the night in prepara
tion for landing in the morning --chiefly raising the baggage

by machinery just over my head. The mischief was not

simply the negative mischief of sleeplessness, but the posi

tive mischief of nervous irritation and wear from the per

petual rattle. And then there came the journey by the

express to London.                I Itwas an immense relief to get home,

and was so delighted scarcely realized how much was
I                                                            :
knocked up."I
                                                               I
And then follows an account of my prostrate state, whichit
  omit. Suffice to say that did not stir out for three

days, and that ten days passed before ventured to call
                                        I
                                              I

                                                   I
on friends.
   Thus ended an expedition which ought never to haveIa   I

undertaken. Setting out with the ill-founded hope that
the journey and change of scene would improve my
health, came back in worse state than went having
made another step downwards towards invalid life.

             74 481

                       CHAPTER LIX.

                       CONCLUSION.

                       1882--89. Mt. 62--69.

   More than six years have passed by since the incidents
narrated in the last chapter; and, were I to give an

account of these years after the same manner as hereto

fore, several more chapters would be required.

Of work, now proceeding very slowly and with long

intervals during which nothing was done, certain small

results would have to be described. There were four

articles in the Contemporary Review, afterwards published

under the title of The Man versus The State. There was

a volume on Ecclesiastical Institutions, forming Part VI.

of the Principles of Sociology; the separate publication of

the last chapter of which led to a disagreeable contro
versy. There were two essays --or rather an essay divided
into two parts --on " The Factors of Organic Evolu
      "
tion      ;  and  two  years  after  the last of these,  came  two

short controversial articles, each of which had to be

broken off in the middle from inability to proceed.

Concerning the chief breaks in my ordinary routine,

there would be passages telling how, in 1883, my good

friend Valentine Smith, finding that I was going North

considerably before the time he had fixed for themselves,

sent down to Ardtornish a staff of servants for my sole

                              482

JEt. 62-69]        CONCLUSION

the place and its belongings. In 1884 would come the
account of a tour through the west of Scotland, in which

I took with me the daughter and niece of my friend Lott :

afterwards joining the Potters at Summerfield, a new
place which they had for the autumn near Ulverston.
And then, in the account of 1885, would have to be told

how, after a fortnight with the Potters at Stock Park on

the banks of Windermere, I visited Dr. Priestley at his

place on the Spey, and there, after walking about half a
mile, wielding a salmon-rod for a quarter of an hour and

walking back, had to pass several days in bed, and then
telegraphed to my secretary to fetch me home : the jour

ney being made with half-a-dozen breaks.
   Thus was made a further great descent to confirmed

ill-health and incapacity.

Passing over details, it will suffice to say that I gradu

ally got myself into a state in which, with a greatly

narrowed margin of strength, I from time to time un

awares overstepped the margin, still further diminished

my strength, and had thereafter to keep within a still

narrower margin ; and so on until an extremely low stage

had been reached.

After one of these disasters, dating from the private

view at the Royal Academy in the spring of 1886, and

after presently having to spend some five or six weeks

indoors, I took a suite of rooms at Upper Norwood, and

there induced to join me as guests Mrs. Bray and Miss

Hennell (George Eliot's great friends) : the temporary

benefits being then, as afterwards, quickly undone. De

pression during a weary month indoors in London did

mischief ; and, fearing continuance of  iIt,  went down to

                   483

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY            [1882-89

slung diagonally in an invalid-carriage. At Brighton

a year and a quarter passed, with many improvements

great and small, and many relapses great and small.

During the last four months of my stay there, a victoria

with india-rubber tyres, which I bought, enabled me to

drive about more than I could otherwise have done : days

and weeks, however, often passing without my being able

to use it. In November 1887 I was induced by Miss

Beatrice Potter to take rooms in the same house with

them at Bournemouth, where they were fixed for the

winter (my friend Potter having also now become an

invalid). The change of scene, and still more the pres

ence close at hand of those about whom I cared, pro
duced a great effect; and at the end of January 1888, I

returned to town, frequented the Athenaeum daily for a

month, and even got so far as playing a game at bil

liards. Then, as usual, came a catastrophe: too long

and too animated a conversation brought me down with

a crash, and I was unable to reach the Athenaeum dur

ing the remainder of the season. Drives in the park

close at hand, extended on a few occasions to the

Savile Club, were all that I could achieve when able to

go out. The end of June found me at Dorking, where

I took up my abode with my friend Mr. Grant Allen for

the summer months. There rapid advances resulted ;

but a little too much physical effort, followed by a little

too much mental excitement, again undid all the good

done. Improvements and relapses filled the time till

the middle of October, when Mr. Allen was obliged to

go, as he habitually did, to a warmer climate ; and I,

unable to move, took his house for the winter. The five

months passed in  it,  more monotonous even than the

                       484

/ET. 62-69]                 CONCLUSION

bearable in the one place as in the other by various

friends, who came to spend sometimes a few days, some

times three weeks, with me ; and especially were they re

lieved by two    children        of  my  friend Mrs. Cripps     (nee
Potter), who in  response        to  my  inquiry -- " Will you  lend
                         "
me  some     children       let  them    visit  me at  Dorking,  as
                       ?

they had done at Brighton. In the middle of March
1889 I got back to town ; fixed myself at a quiet hotel
within five minutes of the Athenaeum, so as to get there

with but a short drive ; was improved greatly by the

change ; and, as usual, have, by adverse occurrences,

physical and mental, again lost what good I gained. So

that now, after having been in the interval much better

and at other times much worse, I am below the level of

three years ago, when my invalid-life commenced.

Beyond correspondence, done by proxy when pos

sible, my sole occupation during these three years (save
the two fragments of essays above named) has been the
composition of this volume -- an occupation which, en

tered upon because heavier work, even in small quan

tity, was impracticable, has proved in some measure a

solace, by furnishing subjects of thought and prevent

ing that absolute vacuity of life which I must otherwise

have borne. How extremely slow has been the progress

is shown by the fact that, when the pages of text have
been duly reduced by deduction of extracts &c, the

amount dictated, revised, and corrected in proof has

been at the rate of a little more than fifteen lines per day

--three lines less than half a page.

  And now about the future? I dictate these lines on

my 69th birthday ; and an invalid-life like mine, due to

                                 485

                  AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY                      [1882-89

not unlikely to last some time. What then shall I do

with it ?
   Shall I, with such small energy as it leaves me, com

plete, if possible, the first volume of this autobiography ?

Part  is I.,  giving an account of my early life and educa
tion
            finished; but Parts II. and III., and IV., cover

ing the interval between 17 and 28, and occupied chiefly
with the incidents of my career as civil engineer, re
                                              a

main in the form of outline draft given to them when,

many years ago, rapidly dictated my recollections to        a
                  II

                            it

                             I

                                           a
shorthand-writer. Shall                     go back upon this rude

sketch, and elaborate into readable form?

   On reflection        decide against this course. Occa

sional experiments have raised the hope that may, in
                                                 IIf I
   rough not in finished way, write another portion of
a     I           of a

          if            Ethics --the most important portion,
the Principles

which feel anxious not to leave undone.                can keep

in check the tendency to bestow too much attention on

the expression of the ideas, and be content with suffi
                                                        Ia
ciently intelligible presentation of them, seems pos
                                                 it

sible that, at slow rate like that above described, may
              a
                           it

                                     I
execute this piece of serious work.              it I  suspend this
   Here, then, at any rate for the present,

narrative of my life which has so long occupied me in
                                                        :

tending to continue only when find impracticable

                         486

PART XII.

LX. Reflections.


                       CHAPTER LX.

                             REFLECTIONS

                      [Written Four Years Later.]

If we pass over that earliest conception of the super

natural which exists among various uncivilized and semi-

civilized peoples, who believe in a material resurrection --

who think the dead man reappears in substantial shape,
has to be fought over again in battle, as the Fijians be
lieve, or gets up from his grave at night and goes hunt
ing, as is asserted by many savages ; and if we begin with
the ghost-theory under that modified form in which the
double, more or less spiritualized, goes away at death,
returning to the body after a shorter or longer period ;
we see that at the outset the idea of a relation between
character and bodily structure is excluded. Along with
the notion of duality there grows up the assumption that
character inheres in the ghost, and that the body is
merely the ghost's house, having no causal relation to it.
This is the necessary implication, too, of all the various
doctrines of metempsychosis. The soul which, according
to some forms of the doctrine, is condemned to be en
cased in numerous inferior creatures, one after another,
is manifestly regarded as independent of its material em
bodiment, and not as in any sense a product of its ma
terial embodiment.

   How far back may be traced the belief that there exists

                                             489

           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

a connexion between mind and brain, it is difficult to say.

It seems probable that very early the phenomena of

idiocy raised the thought of some such relation, qualify
ing the current dualism --qualifying
is                                                                                      however, in an
                             a
                                            it a
                                                     is is

                                                                        it,
                                                                                       a
inconsistent way. For at time when there was recog
nized the " narrow forehead of the fool," there was no

assertion of the logical implication that man's nature

determined by his cerebral development. Even in our

own day, though this truth recognized in the scientific
world, and in half-and-half way in the unscientific

world, yet by most people                   asserted in one breath and

denied in another. The same man who now speaks con

temptuously of another as having no brains, now contests

the doctrine that character varies with brain. Neverthe

less       clear that some sort of dependence                                             currently
      it                                    a
admitted. is                                                   is
                                    a
But there remains to be made                further admission.

There has still to be recognized the truth that, in both

amounts and kinds, mental manifestations are in part de

pendent on bodily structures. Mind not as deep as the
                                            is

brain only, but is, in sense, as deep as the viscera.

    Before specifying the psycho-physical connexions                                      is
which more especially concern us, let me name certain
subordinate ones not here in question, though they should

be noted.
   There are the ways in which perfections and imper

fections of face and limbs have reactive influences on
character. Much might be said about the mental effects
of bodily deformity. One who knows that he looked
upon by those around with disfavour, can scarcely avoid
being in some measure soured -- cannot feel the friend

                                       490

                   REFLECTIONS

same time his temper is almost certain to be injuriously

influenced by the consciousness of inability to compete
with others in sports and games, and to obtain those sat

isfactions which efficiency brings : envy being a probable

result. Conversely, the man of fine physique, prompted
by proved strength and skill to attempt things beyond
the powers of most, and to gain applause by success, has

his mental attitude modified, in some respects favour
ably and in other respects unfavourably. Achievements

produce content with himself and an increase of friend

liness to those who applaud him; though, at the same

time, he may be rendered haughty and unsympathetic in

his other relations.

   So it is with beauty and ugliness. A fine face is a letter

of recommendation which usually begets more kindly

treatment from all than would else be experienced ; and,
though a very ugly face will draw from a few special

attentions, intended to dissipate the depressed conscious

                 is
                     it,

                               if
ness accompanying  yet in most cases this conscious

ness          not weakened but strengthened by others' be
It
haviour. There     neglect,        nothing more; and this,
     is is

             a
causing sense of social isolation, tends to repress the

sympathies.

              true that the reactive effects of these physical

traits on psychical traits are variable, and sometimes op

posite according as they fall on one or another original
      ;

nature. Women show us that the possession of great

facial attractions may, the nature essentially sympa
                   a if
                                           is
thetic, conduce to increase of sympathetic manifestations
                                               a

                                                                  ;
since the genial behaviour to one who has great beauty

excites in such case kindred response, and increases

the natural kindliness of disposition. Conversely, hand

                   491

               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

worse by her handsomeness -- lives chiefly for admira

tion, and becomes more regardless of others' claims than

she would else be. So, too, great bodily powers in a man

may, according to the original balance of his feelings,

lead him to treat those of inferior strength either less

kindly or more kindly than he would have done were he

not thus distinguished. In like manner deformity or ugli

ness may, instead of souring those characterized by
                                                   It
have, in some cases,  reverse effect.
                                                                          it,
I                                                  may prompt

                               a
                                            is
them to make themselves attractive in other ways than

by their physical traits.                       that, given an inherited

  All wish here to note

cerebral structure and accompanying balance of mental

traits, the development of the external organs,    if       de

                                                        it

parts considerably from the ordinary standard, makes the

mental traits different from those which the same brain

would have yielded had been associated with ordinary
             I
face or limb.
                                    it
But now pass from indirect relations to direct rela

tions. The psycho-physical connexions which        I  more

especially refer to, are those existing between the mental

manifestations and what we distinguish as the constitu

tion meaning, thereby, the sizes and qualities of the
;

                        is

                                       if
various vital organs, and those peripheral extensions of

them which take the forms of arteries and veins.

Consciousness forthwith ceases the current of blood

through the brain stopped. The amounts and kinds of

the mental actions constituting consciousness vary, other

things equal, according to the rapidity, the quantity, and

the quality, of the blood-supply and all these vary ac;

cording to the sizes and proportions of the sundry organs

                                        492

                                 REFLECTIONS

which circulate it and the organs which purify it from
waste products.

   That intellectual and emotional manifestations are
changed in their kinds and amounts by changes among
these factors, many know, though few recognize the im
plications. The quantity of mental action shown in
energy of will and flow of spirits ebbs during the pros
tration of illness ; and the quality of mental action is
altered as well as the quantity. Supposing there is
enough vitality to cause display of feeling (which some
times there is not), the display frequently takes the form
of irritability. We have daily proof, too, that the volume
of emotion, and consequently the efflux of muscular
energy, is diminished by fatigue and accompanying fall
in the circulation through the brain. And everyone has
seen how great are the effects on the mind of medicinal
agents which change the quantity and quality of the
cerebral blood-supply -- the influence, now exhilarating,
now stupefying, of alcohol ; the primarily exciting, and
secondarily sedative, results of opium ; the improved
spirits which tonics often produce ; and the lowered
mental energies following use of medicines like the
bromide of potassium, which, persisted in, sometimes
causes extreme depression.

   But, if variations of both ability and feeling are caused
by variations in those physical processes which enable
the brain to act, then it follows that permanent differ
ences in the sizes and proportions of the organs carrying
on those physical processes --differences which distin
guish one constitution from another --must have perma

nent effects on the mental manifestations, both intel
lectual and moral. Men's characters must be in part

                                                  493

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

   Primarily, the question concerns the amount of life--
the amount of that molecular change from which results

the energy expended in both bodily activities and mental
activities. The evolution of this energy depends on the
cooperation of sundry vital organs, and the efficiency or
non-efficiency of each one affects all the others and affects
the total result: the brain being implicated alike as a
recipient of more or less blood which is more or less fit
in quality, and as being also a generator of nerve-force
which influences the actions of the viscera. Let us look
at the three sets of visceral factors separately.

   First must be named the structures constituting the
alimentary system, which may severally be well or ill
developed. There may be inability to deal with an ade
quate quantity of food, or there may be slovenly diges
tion, having the effect that much of the food taken in is
thrown away -- unmasticated lumps which the over-taxed
stomach gets into the habit of passing on inadequately
triturated, and therefore unutilized. Or, again, there
may be solvent secretions of which some are unfit in

quantity or quality or both. If one or other of these

causes necessitates a deficient amount of blood, the vital
actions, those of the brain included, must, other things
equal, go on slowly or feebly or be soon checked. It is
true that the food eaten is no measure of the nutriment
absorbed. But, whether smallness of the alimentary sys
tem or imperfect action of it be the reason, chronic de
ficiency of blood must entail chronic cerebral inactivity,
intellectual and emotional. Conversely, there is evidence
that an unusually active digestion may, other things
equal, be a factor in unusual mental energy. Handel, so
wonderfully productive, so marvellous for the number
and vigour of his musical compositions, may be named

                                             494

                                 REFLECTIONS

    Abundance of good blood will not be followed by
vividness of thought or power of feeling, unless there is
efficient propulsion of it. Great cerebral action implies

great waste and rapid repair ; and, if the repair does not

keep pace with the waste, prostration must soon result.

If the slowness of the blood-supply is temporary the

activity will soon flag, and if it is constitutional there
will be a low standard of mental manifestation. The
emotions especially, which are relatively costly, will be
feeble ; and this will result in lack of energy and want of
will. When, at the one extreme, we see that stoppage of

the blood-supply is immediately followed by insensibility,
and, at the other extreme, see that exalting the blood-
supply by a medicinal agent which raises the power of
the heart, produces elation of feeling and increase of
vigour, it becomes manifest that permanent differences
between the efficiences of the structures which carry on
circulation, must cause permanent differences between

the amounts of mental manifestation. Not only is
power of heart a factor in power of mind, but quality of

the arteries is also a factor. Those in whom the blood
vessels, inadequately contractile, soon yield under stress,
have not the untiring energy of those whose blood-ves
sels can bear persistent action without yielding.

   And then, beyond quantity of blood and circulation of

blood, comes the further factor --purification of blood.

Professor Michael Foster has recently been enlarging on
the truth that fatigue is chiefly caused by the accumula
tion of waste products in the system. The depurating
organs fail to get rid of these with adequate speed ; and
the blood becomes fuller than usual of substances which,

instead of aiding the functions, tend to arrest them. A

                                                  495

AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

in running. This increases the carbonic acid in the blood

more rapidly than it can be eliminated by the lungs. The
being " out of breath," as we say, and the need for tem

porary desistence, show us how presence of an over

charge of a poisonous substance impedes the vital actions.

A corollary is that those in whom the lungs are ill-

developed will have a constitutionally lower activity, bod

ily or mental, or both. Similarly, deficient size of the

kidneys, entailing imperfect excretion of the waste prod
ucts they get rid of, and consequent accumulation of
them in the blood, causes hindrance to nervous action ;

as is implied by the fact that stoppage of the excretion

produces dimness of sight, at other times deafness, and,

when extreme, brings on drowsiness, torpor, and coma.
So, too, it is if the liver fails in its action. Lowness of

spirits, drowsiness, and torpor, are among the symptoms
of liver-derangement; and these are aspects of dimin

ished nervous energy. The implication
a if if                                      then, that

        it
                                    ;
                         it
                                is
                                         a
                                                 is
                                                                 is,
                                                                            is
those who have by nature livers or kidneys below the

average in development, are to that extent likely to be

characterized by some failure in the genesis of nerve-

force, and by consequent lack of animation.

   Details apart, however, the general conclusion unde

niable. If by skin, lungs, liver, and kidneys, waste-prod

ucts of the muscular, nervous, and other activities are
excreted -- the existence of these depurating structures

implies that, unless by their agency effete matters are got

rid of, life must cease       corollary that life must be

impeded one or other of them deficient in size or

quality. And follows that the brain, depending for its

action on due supply of blood duly purified, must be

affected in its efficiency by every variation in the develop

                         496

                                  REFLECTIONS

    But now we come to the truth of chief significance.
 Not the quantity of mind only, but the quality of mind
also, is in part determined by these psycho-physical con
nexions. Amount and structure of brain being the same,
not only may the totality of feelings and thoughts be
greater or less according as this or that viscus is well or
ill developed, but the feelings and thoughts may also be
favourably or unfavourably modified in their kinds. Dif
ference of disposition is caused both directly and in

directly.
    Directly, the effect of imperfect supply of blood to the

brain is shown in reluctance to do many things which
require energy, and in consequent failure of duty towards
self and others. One of the absurdities current among
both cultured and uncultured is that it is as easy for one

man to be active as for another. If A is diligent and B

idle, the condemnation of B always takes for granted that

the cost of effort is the same to A and B. Though every

one knows that during the prostration of illness, or before
good health has been recovered, it is a great trial to make
even a small exertion, yet scarcely any draw the inference
that the lack of energy, temporarily existing in such
cases, exists permanently in other cases, and throughout
life makes activity more or less difficult. Character is af
fected in sundry ways. Often the individual thus made
inert by constitution, cannot be at the trouble of doing
needful things for his own benefit, but persistently sub
mits to a serious inconvenience rather than take measures

to remove it. And if even when personal pains and pleas

ures are in question he will not exert himself, naturally he
is reluctant to exert himself when the pains and pleasures
of others are in question. A, who is constitutionally
active, takes trouble in doing things for others' gratifica

                  75 497

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

tions, and is credited as essentially altruistic; while B,
though his absence of effort for others is due to constitu
tional inactivity, and not to want of sympathy with them,
is thought essentially egoistic. Differences hence result
ing may affect even the discharge of equitable obliga
tions ; for while to the man of restless energy the liquida
tion of a claim may present no obstacle, it may present a
great obstacle to an equally conscientious man of inert
nature.

   But now, beyond these qualitative mental differences
which arise directly from quantitative differences of men
tal energy, there are other qualitative differences arising

indirectly--differences of disposition seemingly conse

quent on inherited differences of brain, but really conse
quent on differences between the blood-supplies to the
brain. For the higher emotions are physiologically more
expensive than the lower ; and, when the blood-supply is
deficient, fail before the lower do. In the Principles of

Psychology, §§ 249 -- 261, I have set down various corol

laries from the truth that from cerebral actions of simple
kinds, which are directly related to maintenance of life,
and are, therefore, essentially egoistic, we rise by suc
cessive complications to those highest governing cerebral
actions which, most involved in their compositions, arise
from less fully organized structures, the actions of which
are most liable to fail. Ancient and simple nervous con
nexions, and accompanying mental cohesions, which are
primary and deep down in the nature, are more persistent
than those superposed ones which are relatively modern
and complex; and, consequently, when the tide of blood
ebbs, these last become feeble or disappear while the first
remain : the result being that the surviving egoistic feel

                                                  498

                                 REFLECTIONS

Examples of this causation in its temporary form are
familiar. When a child who is ordinarily amiable be
comes pettish and fretful, the medical man suspects that
the alimentary canal is not doing its duty, and finds that,
the cause of failing nutrition having been removed, the
mental perversions disappear. So, too, in adult life the
visceral derangements produced by over-work and
anxiety are often followed by ill-temper. Even the recog
nized differences between irritability before dinner and
equanimity (sometimes joined with generosity) after
dinner, suffice to show that, when flagging pulsation and
impoverished blood are exchanged for vigorous pulsation
and enriched blood, there results that change in the bal
ance of the emotions which constitutes a moral change.

And, if there are such temporary mental unlikenesses due

to temporary physiological causes, there must be analo
gous permanent mental unlikenesses due to permanent

physiological causes. It becomes clear that in this re

spect, as in other respects, the mind is as deep as the
viscera.

   These general conclusions are intended to introduce
certain special conclusions. Often it has been a ques

tion with me why, in certain respects, I contrast un

favourably with both father and mother. Probably in
chief measure the cause is of the kind just explained --

a physiological cause. I have never shown the unfail

ing diligence which was common to them ; and there has
not been displayed by me as great an amount of altruis
tic feeling as was displayed by both. One apparent
reason is that the cerebral circulation has, by certain
bodily traits, been throughout life rendered less vig

                                             499

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

   Besides his large brain, my father, as a part of his fine
physique, had a large chest; and, as a result of well-
developed thoracic viscera, had an abundant supply of

energy. I have heard him say that he looked back with

astonishment at the work he did when a young man;
and even during later life, though his activity was not
judiciously directed, he was always busy about some
thing. In physique my mother was not of so fine a
type, and the constitution, though fairly well balanced,
was by no means so vigorous: the development of the
thorax being rather below than above the average
standard. But she had an overwhelming sense of duty,
and, throughout life, was daily forced by it to expend
energy in excess of the normal amount ; so that, spite of
all protests, she eventually brought herself to a state of
chronic prostration. This overwhelming sense of duty
was, doubtless, in its origin religious : the moral feel
ings, naturally decided, were reinforced by the religious
feeling. But in me the cooperative factors were not the
same as in either. The visceral constitution was mater
nal rather than paternal. Traits of bony structure imply
that the thoracic viscera are not so well developed as
they were in my father ; and that, as a consequence, the
circulation and aeration have not been constitutionally

so good.

  As far back as I can remember there have been signs

that the periphery of the vascular system has not been
well filled. Except in hot weather, or after walking
several miles, the ends of my fingers have been inade
quately distended; coldness of the hands has been an
ordinary trait ; and relative dryness of the skin has also
shown deficient blood-supply at the surface : an obvious

                                                  500

                                 REFLECTIONS

ply, when not increased by excitement, has been below
par. It is true that my extraordinary feat in walking
when a boy of 13, seems to prove that there was at that
time no deficiency in either heart-power or lung-power ;
and, if we pass over the evidence from thoracic develop

ment, it might be inferred that the damage done by this
enormous overtax on a half-finished body, was the pri
mary cause of this defective function throughout after
life. Certainly it seems likely to have been a part cause.
Be this as it may, however, there is undeniable evidence
that, either from deficient propulsive power or from
some chronic constriction of the arterioles, the remoter

plexuses of blood-vessels everywhere have commonly
not been duly charged. Hence a somewhat deficient
genesis of energy, or, at any rate, a genesis of energy

not as great as that displayed in my father.
   The same cause has probably operated in producing

that further moral difference above indicated. In re
spect of negative beneficence the likeness to both father
and mother is fairly well marked. In early days there
was none of that tendency towards cruelty which boys
so commonly display, and, throughout later life, the in
fliction of pain or the witnessing of pain inflicted, has

ever been repugnant ; save, indeed, under the excite

ment of argument, when I have usually shown but little

regard for the feelings of opponents. But in the kind
of beneficence distinguishable as positive -- that which

implies not passivity but activity-- I perceive a decided

difference between myself and my parents. My father
especially, with his abundant energy, was active on be
half of others -- doing things which would either give
them pleasure or be indirectly beneficial. But my

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

hinder such actions. The incentives to them have been
commonly neutralized by dislike to taking the requisite
trouble. This initial difference has doubtless originated
a difference of mental tendency ; for, where the yielding
to sympathetic promptings has commenced, there is es
tablished the habit of so yielding, and, conversely, under
opposite conditions there arises the habit of not yield
ing. In respect to one kind of altruistic action, how

ever, I recognize no deficiency. The sentiment of

egoistic justice is strong in me, and sympathetic excite
ment of it produces a strong sentiment of altruistic jus
tice. Consequently, there is not only a readiness to join
others in opposition to political injustice, but a readiness
to take up the causes of individuals unjustly dealt with.
Abundant energy is furnished in such cases by the anger
which the sight of aggression generates in me.

   A cooperative cause may be named as having accen

tuated the contrast between the amount of the wish to
avoid giving pain and the amount of the wish to give
pleasure. From time to time it has seemed to me that
in families brought up from generation to generation
ascetically, and acting up to the belief that the pursuit
of pleasure is wrong, it happens that while there is a
frequent witnessing of suffering, and familiarity with
the natural language of suffering, and therefore ability
to sympathize with suffering, there is a relatively infre
quent witnessing of pleasure, and an unfamiliarity with
the natural language of pleasure, and consequently a
relative inability to sympathize with pleasure. And, if
there thus results a relative inability to sympathize with
pleasure, the temptation to give pleasure must be less
than usual, at the same time that the desire to avoid giv

                                                  502

                                 REFLECTIONS

in my own case recognized this as a possible cause of

the difference, or at least a cooperative cause, I was

some years ago struck by a parallel inference drawn by
the Rev. Dr. Martineau, a propos of his sister, in The
Daily News for December 30, 1884: --

   " That in our early home the parents were so ' cruel ' as
' to starve the emotions in ' their children by ' lack of tender

ness in manner or feeling ' (3 4), I can in no wise admit as

a characteristic of that particular household, though the

allegation would have a certain amount of truth if turned

into a general description of the prevailing habit of the
time. In old Nonconformist families especially, the Puritan
tradition, and the reticence of a persecuted race, had left
their austere impress upon speech and demeanour unused to
be free; so that in domestic and social life there was
enforced, as a condition of decorum a retenue of language
and deportment strongly contrasting with our modern effu
siveness."

An influence of this kind was certainly at work both in
the Spencer family and in the Holmes family, and may

have had its effect on me. But I here name it chiefly

with a view to the general implication that asceticism
tends to produce- inability to sympathize with others'
pleasures, and therefore a lack of desire to give them

pleasures.

   Leaving these psycho-physical interpretations of

character, I pass now to those which are more especially

psychical --those which depend on structure of brain
rather than on the pressure at which the brain is worked.
For, let me remark in passing, there are two distin
guishable sources of mental power. It may result from
an ordinary brain worked at unusually high pressure, or

                                                   503

              AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

worked at medium pressure or even low pressure : the

one giving manifestations of great intensity but not spe

cial in their kinds, the other giving special manifesta

tions. It is with the last that we are here concerned.

Whatever specialities of character and faculty in me

are due to inheritance, are inherited from my father.

Between my mother's mind and my own I see scarcely

any resemblances, emotional or intellectual. She was

very patient; I am very impatient. She was tolerant of
pain, bodily or mental; I am intolerant of it. She was
little given to finding fault with others ; I am greatly
given to it. She was submissive ; I am the reverse of

submissive. So, too, in respect of intellectual faculties,

I can perceive no trait common to us ; unless it be a cer

tain greater calmness of judgment than was shown by

my father; for my father's vivid representative faculty
was apt to play him false. Not only, however, in the

moral characters just named am I like my father, but

such intellectual characters as are peculiar are derived

from him. We will look first at three fundamental ones.

Though an intution is not inheritable, the capacity for

              and inherited an unusual capacity for
an intuition  is,

                    I

                              it

                                       I

                                                        a
the intuition of cause. Already have commented on

the curious display of when, as boy of thirteen,                 aI

called in question the dictum of Dr. Arnott, endorsed by

my uncle Thomas, respecting inertia. Without in

struction, and without special thought, had reached
                                                           I

truer insight into ultimate dynamical relations than

those who were much older and far better cultured.

Always my father had been prone to inquiries about

causes. The habit of making them implied that the con

sciousness of causation was dominant in him and often
                                                              ;

              504

                                REFLECTIONS

questions about causes : not, however, questions of the
fundamental kind just referred to. But the aptitude for
conceiving causes, primarily inherited, had been ren
dered by practice unusually strong; and there had been
produced a latent readiness to grasp the abstract neces
sity of causal relations. This has been shown in my
course of thought throughout life. Though my con

clusions have usually been reached inductively, yet I

have never been satisfied without finding how they
could be reached deductively. Alike in various detached
essays and in that general doctrine which has chiefly
occupied me, this fact is conspicuous ; and it is equally
conspicuous in my political thinking, which is pervaded
by an unconquerable belief in the effects of general
causes working generation after generation : exem
plified, for instance, in my often repeated prophecy that
a nation which fosters its good-for-nothings will end by
becoming a good-for-nothing nation.

   Of the two further intellectual traits inherited from

my father, the first to be named is the synthetic tend
ency. That this was dominant in him is proved by his
little work entitled Inventional Geometry, containing a
multitude of problems to be solved by synthetic proc
esses which pupils are to discover. Both the tendency
in himself and the encouragement of the tendency in
me, were seen when, during my youth, he led me
through the successively more complicated problems in
Perspective : requiring me to find out the modes of

solving them. It scarcely needs saying that the syn

thetic tendency has been conspicuous in all I have done

from the beginning. Social Statics set out with a fun
damental principle, and built upon it a coherent body

                                                   505

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

-- " A Theory of Population, deduced from the general
Law of Animal Fertility "-- proved by its title that its

argument was synthetic, while the same trait, manifested
in many subsequently-written essays, clearly declared

itself in the organization of the series of works which I

commenced in 1860, and finally took an overt form in
the title of that series.

   But the synthetic tendency has in me been accom
panied by an almost equal analytic tendency. Though
in my father's mind this was less manifest, it neverthe
less existed to a greater extent than it exists in most
minds. Indeed, his habit of seeking for causes implied
it ; since the detection of a cause cannot be achieved
without analysis. But in him the analytic tendency,
like the synthetic tendency, was relatively limited in its
range. He occupied himself much more with the con
crete, and much less with the abstract, than it became
my habit to do. While the analytic tendency was more
pronounced in me, it also displayed itself in a wider
sphere. There was an early illustration of it in the
progress from the views set forth in The Proper Sphere
of Government to those set forth in Social Statics. The
last work grew out of the first in consequence of an
inquiry for the common origin of the conclusions which
the first set forth separately ; and the analysis which dis
closed the common principle involved in them, preceded
the synthesis which constituted the body of the work.
Not long after, an essay on " The Universal Postulate "
furnished a more pronounced illustration of the analytic
tendency ; for the purpose of that essay was to identify
the common character of all those beliefs, established
immediately by perception or mediately by reason,

                                                  506

                                 REFLECTIONS

years later, with the Theory of Evolution at large. It

was not enough that the general transformation should
be shown to arise from the instability of the homoge

neous and the multiplication of effects. It was needful

that these also should be analyzed and shown to be

corollaries from the persistence of force -- a truth defy
ing further analysis. So that, both subjectively and

objectively, the desire to build up was accompanied by
an almost equal desire to delve down to the deepest
accessible truth, which should serve as an unshakable
foundation.

    One further cardinal trait, which is in a sense a result
of the preceding traits, has to be named -- the ability to
discern inconspicuous analogies. Of course, in the
process of taking to pieces some group of phenomena,
there come into view those factors which are deep-
seated and necessary, as distinguished from those which
are superficial and not necessary. So, too, is it in the

process of building up. A coherent fabric of conclusions

cannot be framed unless there is a recognition of pri
mary and unchangeable connexions, as distinguished
from secondary and changeable ones. Evidently, then,
the habit of ignoring the variable outer components and
relations, and looking for the invariable inner com
ponents and relations, facilitates the perception of like
ness between things which externally are quite unlike
-- perhaps so utterly unlike that, by an unanalytical in
telligence, they cannot be conceived to have any re
semblance whatever. An example is furnished by the
analogy between a social organism and an individual

organism. A vague recognition of this analogy was
seen in an article named in Chapter XV as written in

                                                  507

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

evil consequences of dishonesty among citizens, I ar

gued that a society has a common life which implicates
all its individuals. This preparedness for recognizing
a definite analogy presently had its effect. When writing
Social Statics, there was made the statement that social
organizations and individual organizations are similar
in their phases of development. It was pointed out that
a low society, like a low animal, is made up of like parts
performing like functions; whereas, as fast as societies
and organisms become more highly evolved, they sev
erally become composed of unlike parts performing un
like functions. Evidently this was a parallelism recog
nized only by ignoring all concrete characters of the
parts and thinking only of the essential relations among
the parts --an analytical process of stripping off what
ever the two things had not in common. And then,
when the nakedness of the essential relations in each
permitted comparison of them, it became manifest that
the fundamental analogy was determined by the opera
tion of the same cause in each : this cause being the
mutual dependence of parts. It became manifest that it
is the mutual dependence of parts which constitutes
either the one or the other a living aggregate, and that
it is because of the increasing mutual dependence of
parts, and consequent increasing unity and vitality of
the aggregate, that there is in both cases shown an ad
vance from a homogeneous structure to a heteroge
neous structure.

   To the co-operation of these intellectual tendencies,
the first three of which were exhibited in my father,
and apparently transmitted with increase, and the last
of which, a derivative result of the others, took in me

                                                   508

                                 REFLECTIONS

say, working together throughout wider ranges of

thought, must be in large measure ascribed whatever I

have done.

   One further intellectual trait, in part derived from the
foregoing and in part of more general nature, must be
set down. Already there has been named the fact that

in boyhood and youth I was much given to castle-

building: not differing from other young people in re
spect of the tendency, but only in respect of its degree.

The absorption which, as indicated in Chapter II, went
to the extent of talking to myself as I walked through

the streets, and the love of picturing adventures, nightly
indulged in, which, on awaking, often made me vexed

because I had gone to sleep before having had my fill,

proved that ideal representation was habitual; and con
tinuance of it under other forms in later life was shown

by the fact, named in Chapter XXXI, that when out of
doors I sometimes passed those living in the same house
with me without knowing that I had seen them, though
I looked them in the face. This activity of imagination,

not greater than in many others, but in me specialized
by the synthetic tendency, has had an effect which at
first sight seems anomalous.

   Probably many readers of the foregoing pages will
have been struck by the heterogeneity in my mental
occupations and objects of interest. Fully to perceive
how apparently unlike one another these have been, it
is requisite to bring into juxta-position sundry of the
subjects of speculation occupying my later life with the
appliances and improvements devised during my earlier
life. The products of mental action are then seen to

                                                   509

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

staff; from the genesis of religious ideas to a watch
escapement ; from the circulation in plants to an invalid
bed ; from the law of organic symmetry to planing ma
chinery ; from principles of ethics to a velocimeter ; from
a metaphysical doctrine to a binding-pin ; from a classi
fication of the sciences to an improved fishing-rod joint ;
from the general Law of Evolution to a better mode of
dressing artificial flies.*

   There is something almost ludicrous in this contrast
between the large and the small, the important and the
trivial; but, as facts in that natural history of myself

which I have aimed to give, it is fit that they should be

indicated. The almost equal proclivities towards analy
sis and synthesis above pointed out, seem to be paral
leled by almost equal proclivities to the abstract and
the concrete, the general and the special; or, otherwise
regarded, equal proclivities to the theoretical and the
practical. But for every interest in either the theoret

ical or the practical, a requisite condition has been--the
opportunity offered for something new. And here may

be perceived the trait which unites the extremely unlike
products of mental action exemplified above. They
have one and all afforded scope for constructive imagi
nation. Evidently constructive imagination finds a
sphere for activity alike in an invention and in a theory.
Indeed, when we put the two together, we are at once
shown the kinship ; since every invention is a theory be
fore it is reduced to a material form.

  In this, as in so many other traits, I recognize in

heritance from my father: in some directions with
increase, and in others without. His constructive im
agination was shown not only by his Inventional Georn

      * See Dr. E. Hamilton's Recollections of Fly Fishing, p. 92.

                                             5IO

                                 REFLECTIONS

etry, but by sundry small inventions ; and it was shown
much more conspicuously by his Lucid Shorthand, in
which it appears under both the analytic and the syn

thetic aspects. It was shown, too, by an unusual

ability for solving puzzles, alike of the mental and of the

mechanical kinds. In this I could not compare with

him; but in both mechanical inventions and in the union
of philosophical analysis and synthesis, this applied
form of constructive imagination appears to have been
further developed while transmitted.

   And here this last remark introduces a group of facts
at once striking and instructive.

   When discussing the question whether the effects of

use and disuse are inherited, I have sometimes been

tempted to cite evidence furnished by sundry of my own
traits ; but have refrained because of dislike to making
public statements about them. Here, however, as in

cluded in an autobiography, I may fitly set down these

instances of modifications, mental and bodily, resulting
from specialities of habit in ancestors.

   It has been remarked that I have an unusual faculty

of exposition-- set forth my data and reasonings and
conclusions with a clearness and coherence not com
mon. Whence this faculty? My grandfather passed all

his life in teaching, and my father, too, passed all his
life in teaching. Teaching is, in large measure, a

process of exposition. Hour after hour, day after day,
the master of a school, or one who gives private lessons,
spends time in explaining. If he is worth his salt, he
does not simply listen to rote-learnt lessons, but takes
care that his pupils understand what they are learning;

                              5"

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY .

or, much better, puts them in the way of solving them
by making them comprehend the principles on which
solutions depend. The good instructor is one in whom
nature or discipline has produced what we may call in
tellectual sympathy -- such an insight into another's
mental state as is needed rightly to adjust the sequence
of ideas to be communicated. To what extent my

grandfather possessed this intellectual sympathy I do

not know ; but his daily life cultivated it to some extent.
My father possessed it in a high degree, and through

out life cultivated it. I possess it in a still higher de
gree : so, at least, I was told, when a young man, by one

who had experience of my father's expositions and of

mine. It appears, then, that the faculty has developed

by exercise and inheritance.

  No one will deny that I am much given to criticism.

Along with exposition of my own views there has
always gone a pointing out of defects in the views of
others. And, if this is a trait in my writing, still more
is it a trait in my conversation. The tendency to fault
finding is dominant--disagreeably dominant. The in
dicating of errors in thought and in speech made by
those around, has all through life been an incurable
habit -- a habit for which I have often reproached my
self, but to no purpose. Whence this habit? There is
the same origin as before. While one-half of a teacher's
time is spent in exposition, the other half is spent in
criticism -- in detecting mistakes made by those who are
saying lessons, or in correcting exercises, or in check
ing calculations ; and the implied powers, moral and in
tellectual, are used with a sense of duty performed. And
here let me add that in me, too, a sense of duty prompts

                                                  512

                                 REFLECTIONS

ing myself from making a comment on something

wrongly said or executed, I have a feeling of discomfort,
as though I had left undone something which should

have been done : the inherited tendency is on its way to
become an instinct acting automatically.

   Similarly to be explained as resulting from inherit
ance, is an allied trait-- disregard of authority. Few
have shown this more conspicuously. As an early illus
tration may be remembered the incident narrated of

myself as happening at the age of 13, when I called in

question the doctrine of inertia set forth in Dr. Arnott's
Physics and defended by my uncle, and persisted in my
dissent spite of this combined authority against me.
Out of illustrations furnished by later life may be
named my published rejection, in 1858, of the concep
tion of nebulae then universally accepted in the astro
nomical world ; and again my rejection of Owen's
theory concerning the archetype and homologies of the
vertebrate skeleton, at that time accepted in the bio
logical world and taught in some medical schools. My
books show submission to established authority, only
in cases where my knowledge of data needed for judg
ment was obviously inadequate (as, say, in the higher
Mathematics, or the higher Physics, or in Chemistry)
and where, consequently, the opinions of experts were
to be accepted. For this trait, so unusual in its degree,
there is, as said above, the same explanation as before.
For what is the attitude perpetually maintained by the
teacher ? Always in presence of his pupils he is himself

the authority, subject to no other. All through adult

life the mental attitude of subordination is made foreign
to him by his function. Such contact as he occasion
ally has with superiors, bears but a very small ratio to

                   76 513

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

the contact he has with inferiors. Hence the sentiment
of submission to authority is but little exercised.

  A closely-allied trait, or in part another aspect of the
same trait, has to be indicated --the absence of moral

fear. In the account of my life at Hinton, a passage

from a letter written by my uncle to my father was

quoted, commenting upon this. He said:--

   " The grand deficiency in Herbert's natural character is in
the principle of Fear. And it is only so far as his residence
with me has supplied that principle in a degree unusual to
him, that after a few struggles he entirely surrendered him
self to obey me with a promptness and alacrity that would
have given you pleasure to witness ; and the more obedient

I have observed him the more I have refrained from exer
cising authority. By Fear, I mean both that ' Fear of the

Lord ' which ' is the beginning of wisdom,' and that fear of
Parents, Tutors, &c."

   Deficient fear of those superior to me in age or posi
tion, of course implied want of respect for authority ; but

it included a further element --disregard of the conse

quences which such disrespect might bring. And this
trait, conspicuous in my boyhood, has been in later life
shown throughout my writings ; for nowhere have I be
trayed any fear either of an individual or of the aggre
gate of individuals. It has, in fact, never occurred to
me to hesitate because of foreseen mischiefs ; or rather,

I have not foreseen them because I have not thought
about them. It has been thus even in cases where pub

lic disapprobation was unmistakable ; as in my per

sistent opposition to State-education --an opposition

expressed when 22, and expressed with equal or greater

strength when 73 ; though for these many years past I

                                                  514

                                 REFLECTIONS

against me. And now observe that we have the same
explanation as before. For what is the relation between
a master and his pupils ? It is a relation from which the
sentiment of fear on his side is excluded. The school is
a small society ; and in it the master fears neither any
one member of it nor the whole assemblage.

  I pass now to a bodily trait no less significant. My

hands are unusually small -- smaller than the hands of a
woman of less than my own height. Both in size of the
bones and in development of the accompanying mus

cles they are considerably below what they should be.

How is this? If the lives passed by my father and

grandfather are considered, a cause is manifest. Both
of them did nothing more, day by day, than wield the
pen or the pencil, and neither of them was given to
sports of any kind or to any exercises which might have
served to keep up the sizes of the hands. Occasionally,
when a young man, my father went fishing, and some
times, though rarely, he did a little gardening of a light
kind; but the exercise of the hands beyond that which
his daily avocations entailed was scarcely appreciable.
In me, then, the hands show the result of two genera
tions of diminished action.

   Thus the inheritance of acquired characters is exem
plified in four mental traits and one bodily trait.

   It is rightly said that a man has the defects of his
qualities -- that, along with certain advantages his nature
yields him, there go certain disadvantages. On consid
ering the effects of the inherited traits above enumer

ated, I am struck with the verification of this truth which

                                                  515

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

consequences entailed by dissent from other men's

opinions, have been part causes of what success I have

had in philosophical inquiry. Such reverence for great
names as most feel, and resulting acceptance of establ
 ished doctrines, would have negatived that independence

without which I could not have reached the conclusions
I have. Never stopping to ask what has been thought
about this or that matter, I have usually gone direct to

the facts as presented in Nature, and drawn inferences

afresh from them --occasionally, it may be, untrue in

ferences, but in other cases inferences which are true.

Meanwhile the implied moral nature has had--espe
cially in early life--injurious consequences. Little as

the fact was recognized by my father, the insubordina
tion shown during my childhood and boyhood was, as

I have indicated, a trait indirectly caused by absence of

subordination throughout his life and the life of his
father. The resulting chronic disobedience, so often de
plored, led not only to direct evils, but to various indi
rect evils: chiefly the attitude of antagonism, the aliena
tion of feeling, the undermining of the affections, and
the consequent weakening of that influence which
should be exercised through them : a diminished activ
ity of sympathy being also an accompaniment. So that
this trait, advantageous to me as a thinker, was other
wise disadvantageous.

  Instead of saying " was," I ought to say " has been,"
for I recognize certain detrimental effects extending

throughout adult life. One has been a tendency to
under-estimate the past as compared with the present.
Doubtless this has been partly due to reaction against
the over-estimating which is current. To me it has

                                      5i6

                                 REFLECTIONS

products of Greek and Roman civilization -- products
sundry of which appeal strongly to the instincts of the
savage, dominant in them at that age-- never recover
from the resulting bias, but remain throughout life sub
ject to the perverted judgments then formed. They
read everything ancient with a predisposition to appre
ciate, and everything modern with a predisposition to

depreciate.

  Uninfluenced in this way, I have very likely been car

ried to the other extreme. Take, for example, the opin

ion about Plato. Time after time I have attempted to

read, now this dialogue and now that, and have put it
down in a state of impatience with the indefiniteness of
the thinking and the mistaking of words for things : be
ing repelled also by the rambling form of the argument.

Once when I was talking on the matter to a classical
scholar, he said --" Yes, but as works of art they are
well worth reading." So, when I again took up the dia
logues, I contemplated them as works of art, and put
them aside in greater exasperation than before. To

call that a " dialogue " which is an interchange of
speeches between the thinker and his dummy, who says
just what it is convenient to have said, is absurd. There
is more dramatic propriety in the conversations of our
third-rate novelists; and such a production as that of
Diderot, Ramcau's Ncphcw, has more strokes of dra
matic truth than all the Platonic dialogues put together,

if the rest are like those I have looked into. Still, quo

tations from time to time met with, lead me to think
that there are in Plato detached thoughts from which

I might benefit had I the patience to seek them out.

                                                   517

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

error almost certainly leads to an opposite error, im

plying that, being so intensely modern, I undervalue

that which is ancient, has been impressed on me a good
deal of late years by recognizing the great progress
made during some of the earliest civilizations-- Egyp
tian, Babylonian, Indian. But while it has become clear
that the remains left by these eastern nations prove
them to have been more advanced, both in the arts and

in thought, than I had supposed, and that lack of rev

erence for what others have said and done has tended
to make me neglect the evidence of early achievements,
it has also become clear that the common educational
bias, against which my own bias is a reaction, has led
to a like under-estimation of pre-classic progress. The
great indebtedness of the Greeks to the peoples who
preceded them in civilization, is yearly becoming more
conspicuous.

   The critical tendency dominant in me, because per
petually exercised by father and grandfather, has sim
ilarly entailed advantages and disadvantages. In pres
ence of current opinions it has prompted examinations,
often disclosing errors and causing rejections ; while,
as already implied, the fault-finding spirit, leading to
more or less disagreeableness in social intercourse, has
also partially debarred me from the pleasures of ad
miration, by making me too much awake to mistakes
and shortcomings.

   In conversation the critical tendency has constantly
led to discovery of reasons for disagreement rather than
reasons for agreement. To name those points in respect
of which another's view coincided with my own, has not

                                                   518

                                 REFLECTIONS

me to name the points of non-coincidence between our
views.

  A further effect has been to render my enjoyment of

works of art less than it might else have been. The
readiness to dwell upon defects has diminished the ap
preciation of beauties, by pre-occupying consciousness.
Possibly there are perfections in various paintings of

the old masters which impress me but little, because I

am keenly alive to the many mistakes in chiaroscuro
which characterize them. These force themselves on
my attention in a way which they would not do were
there no such constitutional aptitude for seeing the im

perfections. When looking at Greek sculpture, too, I

constantly observe how unnatural and inartistic is the

drapery. Though in large measure I admire the more

important parts of the works, my admiration is much
less than it would be but for the vivid consciousness of
this drawback. In some measure the like happens with

music. Many years ago, when I attended the opera a
good deal, I remarked to one who was frequently my
companion -- George Eliot --how much analysis of the

effects produced deducts from enjoyment of the effects.
In proportion as intellect is active emotion is rendered
inactive. And a like result necessarily accompanies
criticism, since the critical process involves more or less
the analytical process. So is it also with my apprecia
tion of literature -- more especially poetry. In these va

rious cases it is not that I am reluctant to admire -- quite
the contrary. I rejoice in admiration ; and rejoice when

at one with others in their admiration. But it rarely
happens that the work of art of whatever kind is so sat
isfactory in every way as to leave no room for adverse

                                                   519

                         AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

Not in respect of works of art only, but also in re

spect of some works of Nature, this tendency has been

shown: the works of Nature being, in this case, per
sons. An illustration occurred during the first year of

my friendship with the Potters. Mr. Potter had a
younger sister --a great beauty, alike in face and figure.

During the visit of my uncle and aunt to them in Upper
Hamilton Terrace, and during an evening I was spend
ing there, my aunt said to me :--" Well, what do you

think of Miss Potter?" Any other young fellow would

"Ihave launched out into unmeasured praise. But my
reply was:--             do not quite like the shape of her
      "
head      :  referring,  of course,  to my phrenological  diag

nosis. The incident has dwelt in my memory, because

I afterwards blamed myself for the absurd way in which
I had singled out a trait that did not, on theoretical

grounds, quite satisfy me, and ignored all that there was

calling for admiration.

It seems probable that this abnormal tendency to

criticize has been a chief factor in the continuance of

my celibate life. Readiness to see inferiorities rather

than superiorities, must have impeded the finding of one

who attracted me in adequate degree.

   Lest the above anecdote should be taken to imply

deficient appreciation of physical beauty, I must add

that this is far from being the fact. The fact is quite

the reverse. Physical beauty is a sine qua non with me ;

as was once unhappily proved where the intellectual

traits and the emotional traits were of the highest.

   How difficult is the judging of character ; and yet how
little hesitation most people have in forming positive

                         520

REFLECTIONS

has been the question occasionally put to me concern

ing someone I have seen for an hour. And then, after

my reply that I was unable to form an opinion so soon,

there has come an expression of surprise. It is true

that occasionally, where the manifestations have been

clear -- perhaps in a handsome woman spoiled by adula

tion, who makes great claims and has become distinctly
selfish -- my estimate has been formed forthwith, and a

sufficiently strong prejudice --if it is to be so called --

established. But in average cases decision is suspended

until I have had considerable evidence.

  Sometimes I have expressed my belief about this

matter by the paradox that nobody knows himself and

nobody knows any one else; meaning, by this extreme

statement, that the possibilities of a nature are never

disclosed until it has been placed in all circumstances,

and that no nature ever is placed in all circumstances.

Generally, the conditions of life have been so compara

tively uniform that very few tests have been applied, and

very few phases of character made visible in conduct.
   An experience of early years gave me a vivid con

sciousness of the way in which feelings are readily de

termined this way or that way by accidents. It was in the

days of my difficulties, when regard for economy

obliged me always to travel in third-class carriages:

then far less comfortable than they are now. Opposite

to me, on one occasion, sat a man who, at the time I

first observed him, was occupied in eating food he had

brought with him -- I should rather say devouring
                                    :

                                        a
                                                                  it,
for his mode of eating was so brutish as to attract my

attention and fill me with disgust  disgust which

verged into anger. Some time after, when he had fin

521

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

the woe-begone expression of his face. Years of suf

fering were registered on it ; and, while I gazed on the
Isad eyes and deeply-marked lines, began to realize the
life of misery through which he had passed. As I con

tinued to contemplate the face and to understand all
which its expression of distress implied, the pity ex
cited in me went to the extent of causing that con
striction of the throat which strong feelings sometimes
produces. Here, then, were two utterly antagonistic
emotions aroused within a short time by the same per
son under different aspects. In the absence of the
change described, either of these might have arisen
without the other, and either of them, had it been ex
pressed alone, would have given to other persons an
untrue conception of me ; an untrue conception which,

indeed, I should have had of myself, had not the circum

stances been varied in the way they were.

   In respect of the intellectual faculties, experience

shows that manifestations are often determined by ac
cidents. Here is a skilful physician, who, in the leisure
part of his later life, shows considerable ability in water-

colour landscape --an ability not discovered until a

vacation at the seaside in company with an artist friend,
led to an attempt. One whose forte is mathematics, being
led by accident into a musical circle, proves to have
musical gifts which neither he nor others suspected.
And some exceptional occasion discloses the fact that
a distinguished chemist is also a born orator. But what
is true of the intellectual faculties is also true of the
emotional faculties. Each nature is a bundle of potential
ities of which only some are allowed by the conditions to

                                                   522

                                 REFLECTIONS

forced this truth upon me in a marked way. During
early years, and throughout mature years, there was no

sign of marked liking for children. It is true that when,
as narrated, I took up my abode with a family in Marl
borough Gardens, I did not make the presence of chil
dren an objection-- rather the contrary. It is true, also,

that during my many visits to Standish, recurring

throughout a large part of my life, I was always on good

terms with the bevy of little girls who were growing up.

But my feeling was of a tepid kind, and, as I learned

from one of them when she was adult, the belief, or at

any rate her belief, was that I did not care much for

children. Had it not been for a mere accident this
might have remained her belief and mine also. When
at Brighton in 1887, suffering the ennui of an invalid

life, passed chiefly in bed and on the sofa, I one day,

while thinking over modes of killing time, bethought
me that the society of children might be a desirable dis
traction. The girls above referred to were most of them,

at the time I speak of, married and had families ; and

one of them -- Mrs. W. Cripps -- let me have two of her
little ones for a fortnight. The result of being thus

placed in a nearer relation to children than before, was
to awaken, in a quite unanticipated way, the philo

progenitive instinct--or rather a vicarious phase of it ;

and instead of simply affording me a little distraction,
the two afforded me a great deal of positive gratifica

tion. When at Dorking a year afterwards, I again

petitioned to have them, and again there passed a fort
night which was pleasurable to me and to them. Such
was the effect that from that time to this, the presence
of a pair of children, now from this family of the clan

                                                   523

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

I may say the chief gratification -- during each sum

mer's sojourn in the country.
    Evidently, but for the thought, and consequent exper

iment, at Brighton, my nature, in so far as this part of
it is concerned, would have remained unknown to me
and unknown to every one else.

   So is it with character throughout its entire range.
The remark that the manifestations of feelings are
greatly changed by marriage is often made. The new
circumstances initiate a new balance ; and without doubt
all other new circumstances have their effects in bring
ing out traits not before known to exist.

   The motives which cause the essential actions of life
are simple. No one fails to identify the appetite which
normally prompts eating; though, in an invalid state,
this prompting feeling may become complicated, or re
placed by other feelings. So, too, with the love of chil
dren. Variations in its quality do not mask its essential
nature. But when we come to those complex emotions
which originate the complex actions of life, there is usu
ally great difficulty in deciding what are the proportions
among their components. The conduct which social re
lations daily call out, and the activities into which all are
led, may be generated in various ways, and probably in
no two persons are generated in exactly the same ways
-- in no two persons are the elements of them alike in
their kinds and their ratios.

  Occasionally I have asked myself what have been the

motives prompting my career -- how much have they
been egoistic and how much altruistic. That they have
been mixed there can be no doubt. And in this case, as

                                                  524

                   REFLECTIONS

mentally in such way as to perceive the relations of

amount among them. So deep down is the gratifica

tion which results from the consciousness of efficiency,

and the further consciousness of the applause which

recognized efficiency brings, that it is impossible for any

one to exclude it. Certainly, in my own case, the desire

for such recognition has not been absent. Yet, so far

as I can remember, ambition was not the primary mo

tive of my first efforts, nor has it been the primary

motive of my larger and later efforts. The letters on

The Proper Sphere of Government were prompted solely,

I believe, by the desire to diffuse what seemed to me

true views. That this was a chief motive to the ration

alization and elaboration of them constituting Social

Statics, seems implied by the fact that, had it not been

for the publisher, Mr. Chapman, I should have issued

the work anonymously. And of later evidences there

is that furnished by the Descriptive Sociology, on which

I continued to spend money and labour after the absence

of public appreciation became manifest.

  Still, as I have said, the desire for achievement and

the honour which achievement brings, have doubtless

been large factors. Where I have been forestalled in
the promulgation of an idea, I have unquestionably felt
some annoyance; though the altruistic sentiment act

ing alone would have made me equally content to have
it promulgated by another as by myself. In con

troversy, again, the wish for personal success has gone
along with the wish to establish the truth -- perhaps has

                   as fancy does in most. For
predominated over  it,

                        I

                                        it
                                                           it

                                                                              it
fighting excites the personal feeling so as to make

primary rather than secondary. Nor can be denied

                   525

   AN AUTO BIOGRAPHY

been throughout stimulated by the desire to associate

my name with an achievement. Though from the outset

I have had in view the effects to be wrought on men's

beliefs and courses of action--especially in respect of

social affairs and governmental functions ; yet the senti

ment of ambition has all along been operative.

   Two other prompters have had shares. There has

been the immediate gratification which results from

seizing and working out ideas. As I once heard a sci

entific friend say, the greatest satisfaction he knew was

that yielded by a successful day's hunting --figuratively
thus expressing the discovery of facts or truths. And

it has been with me a source of continual pleasure, dis

tinct from other pleasures, to evolve new thoughts, and

to be in some sort a spectator of the way in which,

under persistent contemplation, they gradually unfolded

into completeness. There is a keen delight in intellec
tual conquest -- in appropriating a portion of the un

known and bringing it within the realm of the known.

   Of these two remaining prompters the other, allied

to the last though distinguishable from
                       it                       the archi
                                              a

                                                      it,
                                                               is

                                                                       a

                                                                             it
tectonic instinct --the love of system-building, as

would be called in less complimentary language. Dur

ing these thirty years has been source of frequent

elation to see each division, and each part of division,
working out into congruity with the rest --to see each

component fitting into its place, and helping to make

a  harmonious whole. That the gratification of this in

stinct has been not unimportant factor, find at the
   a

            of

            I
                              II
present moment clear proof. As soon as have ended

this series of reflections, am about to commence Part
VII of the Principles  Sociology -- " Professional Insti

                       526

                       REFLECTIONS

able to finish also the next part -- "Industrial Institu

tions," and so complete the third volume. What spurs

me on to this undertaking? Though the genesis of the

professions constitutes a not uninteresting subject, it

does not seem that a coherent account of
                                                       I                showing
                                                               is
how the general process of evolution                             I it,afresh illus

trated, of any public importance. Nor can supposeis

that by executing this piece of work shall add in any

appreciable degree to my own reputation: this will be

practically the same whether                  is it Ido the work or not.

Clearly, then, my desire to do                     is  the desire to fill up  aa

gap in my work. My feeling analogous to that of the

architect when contemplating the unfinished wing of

building he has designed, or one of the roofs only half-

built. Like the restless desire he would feel to supply

these missing structures,               a is  the restless desire feel to
                                                          a
complete these divisions now wanting.
                                                               aI
Though  a              partly included in the last factor, there                      a
             it
should be definitely named further factor -- the aestheticis

sentiment. There appears to be in me dash of the

artist, which has all along made the achievement of

beauty      stimulus: not, of course, beauty as com

monly conceived, but such beauty as may exist in

philosophical structure.                I  have always felt wish to

make both the greater arguments, and the smaller argu
ments composing them, finished and symmetrical. In

so far as giving coherence and completeness                             con
                                                                        ; is

                                                                             I
cerned, have generally satisfied my ambition but
it

       II

                                    it
have fallen short of in respect of literary form. The

aesthetic sense has in this always kept before me an ideal

which could never reach. Though my style lucid,
                                                          is

has, as compared with some styles, monotony that
                                                       a

                                        527

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

forms and in its larger components, and there is a lack
of vigour in its phrases. But the desire for perfection
has in this, as in the building up of arguments, prompted
unceasing efforts to remove defects.

  Here I am struck with a proof that this architectonic

instinct and this aesthetic sentiment, now chiefly opera
tive as stimuli, must be very dominant ; since they are

making me persevere spite of strong deterrents. With

a brain lamed when I was five and thirty, and since that

time so frequently put wrong by over-work, or other
excitement, as to have been made almost incapable of

bearing activity, I am, at seventy-three, urged on to do
a little more of the task I set myself thirty-three years

ago.

  My state of brain is now such that I am obliged to

break the small amount of work I do into short lengths.
I dictate for ten minutes and then rest awhile ; and, as
I have observed this morning (July 24, 1893), I do not

usually repeat this process more than five times, making
a total of fifty minutes. Very frequently (as at the time

I am revising this in proof) I dare not do more than

three times ten minutes or twice ten minutes ; and often

I dare do nothing. When above my average, there is

the addition of a little revising in the afternoon, done in
a similar manner -- a few sentences at once. Throughout
the rest of the day the process of killing time has to be
carried on as best it may.

   Walking has to be restricted to two or three hundred

yards when at my best, and occasionally has to be given

up altogether. A drive of an hour and a quarter or an

hour and a half, in a carriage with india-rubber tyres, is

                                                   528

                                 REFLECTIONS

little excess in this produces injurious effects, now and

then demanding entire desistence. Reading, even of the
lightest kind, is almost as injurious as working. Every
day the temptation to read has to be resisted: a few
pages at once being alone practicable. Very often for-
getfulness leads to a transgression of the limits; bring
ing, as a penalty, a night worse than usual. So is it with

conversation. When I am below my average, this has to

be given up altogether, and when at my best has to be
kept within narrow bounds. Even much listening is

negatived. I make use of ear-stoppers, which when I

cannot conveniently leave the room, enable me to shut
out the voices of those around sufficiently to prevent
me from understanding what is said ; for damage results
from the continuous attention which listening involves.

   The mischief caused by continuous attention prevents

use of the microscope, in which I had this year hoped
to occupy a little time while here (Pewsey). A small

amount of it produced general disturbance, which lasted

several days ; and now I find that three or four minutes
at a time is as much as I can bear. Games, too, of all

kinds are rendered impracticable. Even the simple
child's game of spillicans, requiring intent observation
and careful action of the muscles, proves too much for

me. Cards are quite out of the question ; and I have not

tried backgammon since 1887, when, being at the time
in a low condition, two games caused a serious relapse.

   Of course this constitutional state, varying within

wide limits, usually forbids social intercourse. I have

not been at a soiree for these ten years ; and only on a
few occasions since 1882 have dared to dine out: the

last occasion being nearly two years since, when the
imprudence was severely punished. Public amusements

                  77 529

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

are rigorously excluded. When in the United States

in 1882, I went to a theatre, but never since. Concerts,

too, are negatived. Half-an-hour proved more than

enough the last time I attended one. Nor can any con

siderable amount of drawing-room music be borne.
When, two years ago, Mr. Carnegie presented me with

a piano, I made arrangements with a professional lady

to give me an hour's performance upon it weekly; but

two experiments sufficed to cause desistence. I got no

sleep afterwards on either occasion.
   Thus the waking hours have to be passed in an un

exciting and, by implication, in an uninteresting way --
lying on the sofa or lounging about, and, when the
weather and the place permit, as now, sitting very much
in the open air, hearing and observing the birds, watch
ing the drifting clouds, listening to the sighings of the
wind through the trees, and letting my thoughts ramble
in harmless ways, avoiding as much as possible exciting
subjects. But of course, debarred, as I thus am, from
bodily and mental exercise and most kinds of pleasures,
no ingenuity can prevent weariness.

  When I speak of the waking hours, meaning of course
the day, as passed in this manner, I apparently imply

that the hours of the night are not waking hours. But

in large measure they are. If the day has been gone
through with prudence, and I have taken my dose of

opium (iy2 grains) at the right hour, then between half-
past ten and perhaps one, perhaps two, perhaps half-

past two, broken sleep is obtained --never continuous

sleep. After that come hours of sleeplessness and toss
ing from side to side ; mostly followed, but sometimes
not followed, by more broken sleep before the servant

                                                   530

                                REFLECTIONS

then the dreams accompanying such sleep as I obtain,

though not bad in the sense of being dreadful or hor
rible, are usually annoying.

  Yet this state which I have brought myself to by

forty years of brain-work -- a brain-work which would

have been by no means too much had I not at the out
set overstrained myself -- I am impelled to maintain by
this desire to continue the task I have undertaken.

This architectonic instinct tyrannizes over me. Such

more comfortable life as I might lead if I would cease
Ialtogether to tax myself, decline to lead. And this I

suppose for the reason that, though more comfortable
in one sense, it would be on the whole less comfortable.
Besides being debarred from that slight pleasurable ex

citement given me by the trifling amount of work I am

able to do daily, there would be the perpetual conscious

ness of something left undone which I wanted to do.
The weariness would become still worse had I to spend

the whole day in killing time, with such small means of
doing it.

   Contemplation of these physical consequences of my
career leads me to think of the other consequences --

the question, --What advice would I give to an aspirant,

pecuniary, social, &c. ; and the thought of them raises
who, in early or middle life, thought of devoting him
self to philosophy, or to some other division of grave
literature: prompted to do so by the belief that he had
something important to say? Supposing the something
to be really of importance (against which, however, the
probabilities are great, notwithstanding his own con

                                                   531

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

him not only to live for a long time without returns, but
to bear the losses which his books entail on him, he
will soon be brought to a stand and subjected to heavy
penalties. My own history well exemplifies this prob
ability, or rather certainty. Had it not been for the

£80 which, in 1850, I proved to the printer was coming
to me under the Railway Winding-up Act, I should have

been unable to publish Social Statics. Only because the
bequest from my uncle Thomas made it possible to live

for a time without remunerative labour, was I enabled

to write and publish the Principles of Psychology. For
two years after The Synthetic Philosophy had been pro
jected, no way of bringing it before the world was dis
coverable. When, at length, mainly by the aid of

scientific friends, without whose endorsement I could

have done nothing, it became possible to get together
a sufficient number of subscribers, it was presently
proved that, partly because of my inability to keep up
the intended rate of publication, and partly because of

losses entailed by numerous defaulters, I should have

been obliged to desist before the completion of First
Principles, had it not been that the death of my uncle
William, and bequest of the greater part of his property
to me, afforded the means of continuing. Not even
then were my difficulties ended. Six years' persistence
in work which failed to yield such returns as, added to
other sources of income, sufficed to meet my modest ex
penses of living, brought me, in 1866, to an impending
cessation. After finding that in the course of the years

devoted to philosophical writing, I had sunk more than
£1100, and was continuing to lose, I announced that
when the volume then in hand was completed I should

                                                   532

                                 REFLECTIONS

tinuance was removed, partly by the American testi
monial and partly by my father's death, which dimin
ished the responsibilities coming upon me, was the
notice of cessation cancelled. Even after that, several
years elapsed before the returns from my books became
such as put me quite at my ease. And only in subse
quent years did my income become ample. Evidently

it was almost a miracle that I did not sink before success

was reached.

   As the difficulties of self-maintenance while pursuing

a career analogous to mine, are almost insuperable, the
maintenance of a wife and family must of course be im
possible. One who devotes himself to grave literature
must be content to remain celibate; unless, indeed, he
obtains a wife having adequate means for both, and is
content to put himself in the implied position. Even
then, family cares and troubles are likely to prove fatal

to his undertakings. As was said to me by a scientific
friend, who himself knew by experience the effect of
domestic worries -- " Had you married there would have
been no system of philosophy."

   If the prompting motive is the high one of doing

something to benefit mankind, and if there is readiness
to bear losses and privations and perhaps ridicule in
pursuit of this end, no discouragement is to be uttered ;
further than that there may be required greater patience
and self-sacrifice than will prove practicable. If, on the
other hand, the main element in the ambition is the de
sire to achieve a name, the probability of disappoint
ment may still be placed in bar of it. Adequate appre
ciation of writings not adapted to satisfy popular desires,
is long in coming, if it ever comes ; and it comes the

                                                  533

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

or, being in them, will not descend to literary " log
rolling," and other arts by which favourable recognition
is often gained. Comparative neglect is almost certain
to follow one who declines to use influence with review

ers, as I can abundantly testify.

   Even should it happen that, means and patience hav
ing sufficed, the goal is at length reached and applause
gained, there will come nothing like the delights hoped
for. Of literary distinction, as of so many other things
which men pursue, it may be truly said that the game is
not worth the candle. When compared with the
amount of labour gone through, the disturbances of
health borne, the denial of many gratifications otherwise
attainable, and the long years of waiting, the satisfac
tion which final recognition gives proves to be rela
tively trivial. As contrasted with the aggregate of
preceding pains, the achieved pleasure is insignificant.

A transitory emotion of joy may be produced by the

first marks of success ; but after a time the continuance
of success excites no emotion which rises above the

ordinary level. It is, indeed, astonishing to what an

extent men are deluded into pursuit of " the bubble
reputation," when they have within their reach satis
factions which are much greater: supposing, at least,
that the endeavours to gain these greater satisfactions
are not disappointed, which unhappilly they very often

are.

   And, then, beyond the fact that literary success when
it comes, if it ever does come, brings pleasures far less
than were anticipated, there is the fact that it brings
vexations and worries often greatly exceeding them.
While the approbation looked for often does not come,

                                                  S34

                                 REFLECTIONS

Adverse criticisms of utterly unjust kinds frequently
pursue the conscientious writer, not only during his
period of struggle but after he has reached his desired

position. Careless mis-statements and gross misrepre

sentations continually exasperate him; and if he meas

ures the pains produced by these against the pleasures
produced by due appreciation, he is likely to find them
in excess.

   Beyond the evils which the aspirant will have to bear
in the shape of blame for ascribed oversights which do
not exist, and ascribed errors which are not committed,
and ascribed absurdities which are in truth rational con

clusions, he may have to bear graver evils. If his wri

tings are of kinds which arouse antagonisms, political,
religious, or social, there will be visited upon him the
anger of offended prejudices, or of threatened interests,
or both.

  Already, in giving an account of my uncle Thomas, I

have pointed out the extent to which the odium theologi-
cum, joined with the animosity caused by attack on class-
interests, may prompt grave calumnies. One who raised
his parish from a low and neglected state to a state of
relative culture and prosperity; one who spent all his
spare time in efforts to benefit the working-classes by
lectures and writings ; one who, returning from the scenes
of his philanthropic exertions, always reached home on
Saturday night so as to give his two services on the
Sunday ; one who for discharge of his clerical duties, and
for activities which went far beyond them, received the
pittance of £80 a year; was actually described as a sine-
curist ! One whose efforts were devoted to the moraliza-

                                                  535

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

self by them, was described as not even expending the
efforts which an ordinary parish priest devotes to the me
chanical performance of his routine functions in return
for a good income ! While doing an excess of work, he
was stigmatized as doing none !

  From theological antagonism I have myself suffered

but little; and, indeed, have met with an amount of for
bearance and sympathy which has surprised me. On me,
however, there have of late come the effects of political
animosity. In my first work, Social Statics, it was con
tended that alienation of the land from the people at large
is inequitable ; and that there should be a restoration of it
to the State, or incorporated community, after making
due compensation to existing landowners. In later years

I concluded that a resumption on such terms would be a

losing transaction, and that individual ownership under
State-suzerainty ought to continue. In his Progress and
Poverty, Mr. Henry George, quoting the conclusion
drawn in Social Statics, made it a part-basis for his ar

guments ; and, when my changed belief was made public,
his indignation was great. There resulted after some

years a work by him entitled A Perplexed Philosopher,
in which he devoted three hundred odd pages to denun
ciation, not only of my views but of my motives, and
assailed me as a traitor to the cause of the people. He
alleged that my change of opinion must have resulted
from a wish to ingratiate myself with the landed and
ruling classes: applying to me Browning's lines in The
Lost Leader-- " Just for a handful of silver he left us,
just for a ribbon to stick in his coat." This he did in

face of the fact that in works quoted by him, I have spo

ken disrespectfully of the two most conspicuous mem

                                                   536

                 REFLECTIONS

(Study of Sociology, chap, xvi, and Principles of Ethics,
§130) ; and have thus spoken of each at the time when
he was Prime Minister, and had in his hands the dispen

sing of honours and patronage! Then, turning his fic

I
        Ia

                                                               :

                                                     is
                                                                                                it,
tion into a fact, and working himself into a fury over
Mr. George does not scruple to manufacture evidence in

its support. He says --

   The name of Herbert Spencer now appears with those of
about all the Dukes in the kingdom as the director of an

association formed for the purpose of defending private
property in land (p. 201).

am member of but one political body. This body,

which was in part instrumental in establishing, was

subsequently joined by sundry men of title, and among
them two dukes. This body the London Ratepayers

Defence League!
   Mr. George's book, circulated in the United States and

in England, has been reviewed in various journals which

have accepted its statements; and many have quoted its

denunciations, apparently supposing that there was

ground for them. Even The Times cites, without any

condemnation of  Mr. George's charge that have
                 it,

                                                        I

" abandoned the necessary inferences, from motives less

abstract and considerably less creditable, than those

founded on sound logic and the truth of things." (Jan

uary 12, 1893.)
   Here, then, are lessons for one who, dealing with theo

logical, political, or social subjects, says candidly what he

believes. If his career leads him to set forth views excit

ing class-animosities, or individual-animosities, he may

count upon greater evils than are entailed by the stupidi
ties and misinterpretations of critical journals and must
                              ;

                 537

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

that he will be injured by utterly false interpretations of
his motives and by consequent vilifications.

   Is it then that these various dissuasives, had they been
put before me when I began my career, would have

stopped me; or do I regret that I was not stopped by
such dissuasives? I cannot say yes. If at the outset the

many chances against success had been specified, it is

doubtful whether desistence would have resulted. Nor

even had I seen clearly the evil to be entailed in the shape

of ill-health, would this further deterrent have sufficed.
Once having become possessed by the conception of Evo
lution in its comprehensive form, the desire to elaborate
and set it forth was so strong that to have passed life in

doing something else would, I think, have been almost in

tolerable. The perpetual consciousness of a large aim
unachieved would have been a cause of chronic irritation
hardly to be borne.

  Little, then, as I should encourage another to follow my

example and throw prudence to the winds, it will readily

be understood that, as things have turned out, I find no
reason to regret the course I took and the life I have

passed: very much the contrary, indeed. Nearly all men
have to spend their energies, year after year, in occupa

tions which are more or less wearisome, if not repugnant,

simply that they may gain the means of living for them
selves and their dependents ; and have not the daily satis
faction of working towards a greatly-desired end. The
artist of genius may, indeed, be named as one whose
labour subserves the double purpose of bringing him
material support and realizing his conceptions : the pleas-
urableness of the last being doubtless very great. The

                                                  538

                                 REFLECTIONS

tensity of pleasure in his work which no other man does.
But omitting these, men at large have to pass their days
in duties from which they would gladly be excused. Quite
different has been my lot: my chief complaint having
been that state of brain every day forbade me to continue

when I wished to do so. Even taking into account
chronic disturbance of health, I have every reason to be

satisfied with that which fate has awarded me.
   Moreover, these disturbances of health have not been of

a kind so difficult to bear as those borne by many who
have no compensations for them. They have not entailed
on me any positive suffering ; unless, indeed, the weariness
and irritation of perpetual bad nights come under that

name. I have not been subject to much positive pain:
less, I think, than most are. And then, during the greater

part of the time since my break-down in 1855, the con
stitutional state, which seems to have become adapted to
a small amount of broken sleep, has not been such as to

negative many of the pleasures within reach. It is true

that, reading to any considerable extent being injurious,
light literature has been almost wholly cut off, and re
striction of evening excitements has been imperative ; but
otherwise, up to the age of 62, the deprivations were not
great. Only during the last ten years, and especially

during the last six years, have I been more and more cut

off from most relaxations.
   And here let me exclude some misapprehensions likely

to be caused by what has been said above. Naturally it
will be inferred that the chronic perturbations of health
described, and especially those which of late years have
brought me to what may be called an invalid life, must
be indicated by an invalid appearance. This is far from

                                                  539

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

colour, is there any such sign of constitutional derange

ment as would be expected. Contrarywise, I am usually
supposed to be about ten years younger than I am. And

this anomalous peculiarity conforms to a medical observa

tion which I have seen made, that nervous subjects are

generally older than they look.

  Thus, if I leave out altruistic considerations and include
egoistic considerations only, I may still look back from

these declining days of life with content. One drawback

indeed there has been, and that a great one. All through

those years in which work should have had the accom
paniment of wife and children, my means were such as to

render marriage impossible : I could barely support my
self, much less others. And when, at length, there came

adequate means the fit time had passed by. Even in this
matter, however, it may be that fortune has favoured me.
Frequently when prospects are promising, dissatisfaction
follows marriage rather than satisfaction ; and in my own

case the prospects would not have been promising. I am

not by nature adapted to a relation in which perpetual
compromise and great forbearance are needful. That ex

treme critical tendency which I have above described,

joined with a lack of reticence no less pronounced, would,

I fear, have caused perpetual domestic differences. After

all my celibate life has probably been the best for me, as
well as the best for some unknown other.

   And now, having made these reflections concerning my

own nature and its relation to the work I have done, what
have I got to say concerning things at large? Besides

those products of experience which, in my books, have
been organized into a coherent whole, what further prod

                                                  540

                                REFLECTIONS

days, what noteworthy differences have arisen in the as
pects which the world around presents to me?

   Not very much has to be said beyond emphasizing what
has been already said. In various of my later books there
have been indicated those modifications of views which

mature years had brought concerning political, religious,
and social affairs. The years which have since elapsed
have served but to make these modifications more marked.

All that remains is to set them forth in their accentuated

shapes, after asking what probability there is that the
opinions formed in this closing part of life are nearer to
the truth than those formed in its earlier part.

   The comparative conservatism of old age has various
factors. In part it results negatively from diminished
energy. Strength prompts action ; and action, resulting
in change, familiarizes the mind with changes and makes
the effecting of them relatively attractive : enterprise is a
trait of youth. Not diminished strength only, but hard
ening habit also, tends to make changes less and less
attractive. To break through the usages of thought and
conduct gradually established, becomes at once difficult
and repugnant. Then, to these obstacles resulting from
constitutional alteration are added others arising from
what is in one sense mental growth. Things which in
early life look simple and easy to deal with, are found,
as life goes on, to be complex and deeply rooted. In what
appeared wholly evil there are discovered elements of
good below the surface; and what once seemed useless
or superfluous is discovered to be in some way beneficial,

if not essential. In each man as he grows old such factors

act in various proportions and combinations: those due
to senility being usually the chief.

    In myself those due to wider observation and longer

                                                   541

                            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

thought are, I believe predominant. I believe this be

 cause the aversion felt in early days for the older types of
 social organization survives. Now, as at first, not only is
 autocracy detestable, but there persists a dislike to that
I form of personal rule seen in qualified monarchical gov

 ernments. I still sometimes think to myself, as I thought

1fifty years ago, how ludicrous would be the account given
'by some second Micr omegas who, looking down on the
 doings of these little beings covering the Earth's surface,
 told how, to some member of a particular family, they
 assigned vast revenues and indulgences beyond possibility
 of enjoyment, ascribed beauty where there was ugliness,
 intelligence where there was stupidity, traits of character
 above the average where they were below ; and then daily
 surrounded these idealized persons with flattering cere
 monies, accorded to them extensive powers, and treated
 with contumely any who did not join in the general wor
 ship. Holding that true loyalty consists in honouring
 that which is intrinsically honourable, and showing rev
 erence for a worth demonstrated by conduct and achieve

 Iment, feel at present, as in the past, irritated by such

 observances as those which lately showered multitudinous
 wedding presents, and contributions of money from
 countless men and women, on two young people who, en
 joying luxurious lives, have neither benefited their kind
_nor shown the least capacity for benefiting them. Hence

 it is clearly not because of any change of sentiment that I

 look with greater tolerance on monarchy ; but simply be
  cause wider knowledge has led me to perceive its adapta
 tion ta-ihe-exisiing type of man. Institutions of every
 kind must be regarded as relative to the characters of
  citizens and the conditions under which they exist ; and

                                                    542

                                REFLECTIONS

be judged, not by their absolute fitness but by their rela
tive fitness. While the average feelings of people con
tinue to be those which are daily shown, it would be no
more proper to deprive them of their king than it would
be proper to deprive a child of its doll.

  Chiefly, however, the greater contentment I feel now

than of old with established governmental forms, is due to
the strengthened belief that there is a necessary connexion
between the natures of the social units and the nature of

the social aggregate. A cardinal doctrine of M. Comte

and his disciples, is that individual men are products of
the great body in which they exist --that they are, in all
their higher attributes, created by that incorporated hu
manity called by Comte the supreme being. But it is no
less true, or rather it is much more true, that the society is
created by its units, and that the nature of its organiza
tion is determined by the natures of its units. The two act
and re-act ; but the original factor is the character of the
individuals, and the derived factor is the character of the
society. The conception of the social organism neces
sarily implies this. The units out of which an individual
organism builds itself up, will not build up into an or
ganism of another kind: the structure of the animal
evolved from them is inherent in them. So, too, is it in

large measure with a society. I say " in large measure "

because the relations between the two are less rigid. In

an animal the units and the organism have worked to
gether, acting and reacting, for millions of years ; but in
a society for only a few thousands of years, and in
the higher types of societies for only a few hundreds of
years. Hence the character of the society inheres in the
characters of its units far less deeply. Still, it inheres

                                                  543

                           AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

one social type to another is impracticable ; and a sud
denly-made change is inevitably followed by a reversion,

if not to the previous type in its old form, yet to the pre

vious type in a superficially different form.
   Illustrations of this truth are arising before our eyes.

While old kinds of coercive government are dissolving,
new kinds of coercive government are evolving. The
rule of the monarch and the landed class, unqualified in
feudal days, and in part replaced by the rule of the mid
dle class after the Reform Bill, has since then been in
larger part replaced by that of the working class, which
is fast becoming predominant. But the temporary free
dom obtained by abolishing one class of restraints, which
reached its climax about the middle of the century, has
since been decreased by the rise of another class of re
straints, and will presently be no greater than it was be
fore. We have been living in the midst of a social exuvia
tion, and the old coercive shell having been cast off, a
new coercive shell is in course of development ; for in our
day, as in past days, there co-exist the readiness to coerce
and the readiness to submit to coercion.

  Here, then, I see a change in my political views which

has become increasingly marked with increasing years.

Whereas, in the days of early enthusiasm, I thought that

all would go well if governmental arrangements were

transformed, I now think that transformations in govern

mental arrangements can be of use only in so far as they
express the transformed natures of citizens.

   Less marked, perhaps, though still sufficiently marked,
is a modification in my ideas about religious institutions,
which, indicated in my later books, has continued to grow

                                                  544

                                 REFLECTIONS

its hold on me, the sole question seemed to be the truth or

untruth of the particular doctrines I had been taught.
But gradually, and especially of late years, I have become

aware that this is not the sole question.
   Partly, the wider knowledge obtained of human socie

ties has caused this. Many have, I believe, recognized

the fact that a cult of some sort, with its social embodi
ment, is a constituent in every society which has made any
progress ; and this has led to the conclusion that the con
trol exercised over men's conduct by theological beliefs
and priestly agency, has been indispensable. The masses
of evidence classified and arranged in the Descriptive So
ciology, have forced this belief upon me independently :

if not against my will, still without any desire to entertain

it. So conspicuous are the proofs that among unallied
races in different parts of the globe, progress in civiliza
tion has gone along with development of a religious sys
tem, absolute in its dogmas and terrible in its threatened
penalties, administered by a powerful priesthood, that
there seems no escape from the inference that the mainte
nance of social subordination has peremptorily required
the aid of some such agency.

   Much astonishment may, indeed, reasonably be felt at
the ineffectiveness of threats and promises of supposed su
pernatural origin. European history, dyed through and
through with crime, seems to imply that fear of hell and
hope of heaven have had small effects on men. Even at

the present moment, the absolute opposition between the
doctrine of forgiveness preached by a hundred thousand
European priests, and the actions of European soldiers
and colonists who out-do the law of blood-revenge
among savages, and massacre a village in retaliation for a
single death, shows that two thousand years of Christian

               TM 545

                            AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

 culture has changed the primitive barbarian very little.
 And yet one cannot but conclude that it has had some ef
 fect, and may infer that in its absence things would have
 been worse.

    At any rate, it is clear that, with men as they have been
 and are, the ultimate reasons for good conduct are too

remote and shadowy to be operative. If prospect of

 definite eternal torture fails to restrain, still more must
 prospect of indefinite temporal evil fail. When we study
 the thoughts of the average British elector, who can con
 ceive no reason for voting thus or thus save some mate
 rial advantage to be gained, we may see that threats and
 promises of intense pains and vivid pleasures are alone
 likely to influence his conduct in marked ways.

    Then, again, there is the truth, which is becoming more
 and more manifest, that real creeds continually diverge
 from nominal creeds, and adapt themselves to new social
 and individual requirements. The contrast between me
 diaeval Christianity and the present Christianity of prot-
 estant countries, or again the contrast between the belief
 in a devil appointed to torment the wicked, strenuously
 held early in this century, and the spreading denial
 both of a devil and of eternal punishment, or again the
 recent expression of opinion by a Roman Catholic that
 there may be happiness in hell, suffice to show the re
 moulding of what is nominally the same creed into what
 is practically a quite different creed. And when we ob
 serve, too, how in modern preaching theological dogmas
 are dropping into the background and ethical doctrines
coming into the foreground, it seems that in course of
 time we shall reach a stage in which, recognizing the
 mystery of things as insoluble, religious organizations

                                                   546

                                REFLECTIONS

  Thus I have come more and more to look calmly on
forms of religious belief to which I had, in earlier days, a

pronounced aversion. Holding that they are in the main
naturally adapted to their respective peoples and times, it
now seems to me well that they should severally live and
work as long as the conditions permit, and, further, that
sudden changes of religious institutions, as of political
institutions, are certain to be followed by reactions.

  If it be asked why, thinking thus, I have persevered in

setting forth views at variance with current creeds, my

reply is the one elsewhere made :-- It is for each to utter

that which he sincerely believes to be true, and, adding
his unit of influence to all other units, leave the results to
work themselves out.

   Largely, however, if not chiefly, this change of feeling

towards religious creeds and their sustaining institutions,
has resulted from a deepening conviction that the sphere
occupied by them can never become an unfilled sphere,
but that there must continue to arise afresh the great ques
tions concerning ourselves and surrounding things; and

that, if not positive answers, then modes of consciousness

standing in place of positive answers, must ever remain.
   We find, indeed, an unreflective mood general among

both cultured and uncultured, characterized by indiffer
ence to everything beyond material interests and the su
perficial aspects of things. There are the many millions
of people who daily see sunrise and sunset without ever
asking what the Sun is. There are the university men,
interested in linguistic criticism, to whom inquiries con
cerning the origin and nature of living things seem triv
ial. And even among men of science there are those who,

                                                  547

                          AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

the masses and motions of double-stars, never pause to
contemplate under other than physical aspects the im
measurably vast facts they record. But in both cultured
and uncultured there occur lucid intervals. Some, at
least, either fill the vacuum by stereotyped answers, or
become conscious of unanswered questions of transcend
ent moment. By those who know much, more than by
those who know little, is there felt the need for explana
tion. Whence this process, inconceivable however sym
bolized, by which alike the monad and the man build them
selves up into their respective structures ? What must we
say of the life, minute, multitudinous, degraded, which,
covering the ocean-floor, occupies by far the larger part
of the Earth's area ; and which yet, growing and decaying
in 'utter darkness, presents hundreds of species of a sin
gle type ? Or, when we think of the myriads of years of
the Earth's past, during which have arisen and passed
away low forms of creatures, small and great, which,
murdering and being murdered, have gradually evolved,
how shall we answer the question -- To what end? As
cending to wider problems, in which way are we to inter
pret the lifelessness of the greater celestial masses -- the
giant planets and the Sun; in proportion to which the

habitable planets are mere nothings? If we pass from

these relatively near bodies to the thirty millions of re
mote suns and solar systems, where shall we find a rea
son for all this apparently unconscious existence, infinite
in amount compared with the existence which is conscious
-- a waste Universe as it seems? Then behind these mys
teries lies the all-embracing mystery -- whence this uni
versal transformation which has gone on unceasingly
throughout a past eternity and will go on unceasingly

                                                   548

                REFLECTIONS

the paralyzing thought --what if, of all that is thus incom

prehensible to us, there exists no comprehension any

where ? No wonder that men take refuge in authoritative

dogma !

So is too, with our own natures. No less inscruta
is
        it,
ble this complex consciousness which has slowly evolved
out of infantine vacuity --consciousness which, in other
             manifested by animate beings at large --con
shapes,  is

sciousness which, during the development of every crea

ture, makes its appearance out of what seems uncon

scious matter suggesting the thought that consciousness
             ;

in some rudimentary form omnipresent. Lastly come
                           is

the insoluble questions concerning our own fate the evi
                                :

dence seeming so strong that the relations of mind and
nervous structure are such that cessation of the one ac

companies dissolution of the other, while, simultaneously,

comes the thought, so strange and so difficult to realize,

that with death there lapses both the consciousness of

existence and the consciousness of having existed.
   Thus religious creeds, which in one way or other occu

py the sphere that rational interpretation seeks to occupy

and fails, and fails the more the more seeks, have
come to regard with sympathy based on community of
:

                                   a

                                                             it

                                                 I
need feeling that dissent from them results from inability

to accept the solutions offered, joined with the wish that

solutions could be found.

                THE END.

                           549


APPENDICES.


                      A NOTE.

    [Where to place the following two letters has been a

Iquestion not easily answered, for no place seems quite ap

propriate. After much consideration have decided that

they should be inserted here rather than elsewhere.]

                  5 Percival Terrace,
                             Brighton,

Dear Mr. Huxley,                  Nov. 21, 1900.

   On further reading your very interesting Life of your
father, I find some statements of personal concern which

will cause much misapprehension.

   Through inadvertence, passages on pages 333 of vol. I.

and 266 and 68 of vol. II. convey the impression that the

criticism of my proofs by your father extended to my

writings at large; and a phrase of yours on page 133 of

vol. II. implies that you have yourself derived this im

pression. It is an erroneous one. Beyond First Princi

ples your father read in proof The Principles of Biology,

a biological essay, and some chapters concerning the nerv

ous system. There was peremptory need for expert crit

icisms on these, and he very kindly gave me his; but I

did not ask his critical aid when writing the seven vol

umes dealing with Sociology, Psychology, and Ethics,

or the six volumes of my miscellaneous works, save the

                  553

                                     APPENDICES

ter entitled " Religious Retrospect and Prospect." This
is in a measure implied by my letter accompanying the
proofs of the essay on " The Factors of Organic Evolu

tion "--a letter in which I spoke of habitually submitting
"my biological writing to your [his] castigation " (ii.
127) ; for had the practice been general I evidently should

not have limited the statement to biological writing.

   A word concerning the unpublished Autobiography.

Reading of proofs by friends (your father being one)
was to be a check on errors of taste. The parts your
father saw amounted to about a third.

    When saying, a propos of his role of " devil's advo
cate," that " there is no telling how many brilliant specu

lations I have been the means of choking in an embry

onic state," your father was venting one of his facetious

exaggerations. A comparison between the original MSS.

Iand the printed books, made by my secretary to whom

dictate this letter, shows that in the three volumes above
named there are four passages of a speculative kind in

the MS. which have disappeared from the printed text.
[Let me add that of the two omitted from The Principles
of Biology one concerned the derivation of the vertebrate
type from the ascidian type--a speculation which not
long after received support from the discoveries of Kow-

alewsky. I afterwards gave it a place in Appendix D
of vol. II.]

  As shown by a letter you have partly quoted, I have

expressed my grateful sense of your father's " invaluable

critical aid," but naturally I do not wish this to be under

stood as having been far greater than it was.
   Whatever changes you may make in future editions for

the purpose of preventing misapprehensions, cannot of

                                                  554

                                       NOTE

I am not content that they should remain in error. What

should be done?
                                               Yours truly,

                                                 Herbert Spencer.

   In response to this appeal Mr. Huxley published the
following letter in The Athenaum for December 8, 1900.

          huxley's life.

                                                     November 28, 1900.

It has been suggested to me by Mr. Herbert Spencer

that a phrase of mine in the Life and Letters of T. H.

Huxley (vol. II. p. 133) might give rise to a false im

pression touching the extent to which my father used to

criticize the proofs of Mr. Spencer's published writings.
The words " from whom [viz., Mr. Spencer] he had, ac

cording to custom, received some proofs to read," refer,
of course, to the " biological writings " mentioned in Mr.

Spencer's letter quoted on p. 127. Besides such biological

writings, my father read in proof only First Principles

and two   small fragments amounting to thirty-two pages.
          suppose that those who have any knowledge of
I do not

the subject will imagine that he criticized the proofs of
IMr. Spencer's writings at large; but
to think that I had possibly suggested   should be sorry
                                        a false notion to

others.

Your readers will hardly need telling that epistolary

humour is not always    to be taken literally,   and that the
phrase about his being  " devil's advocate "
                                                to Mr. Spen

cer 333)--" There no telling how many brilliant
(»·

       I

                              is
speculations have been the means of choking in an em

                                  555

APPENDICES

young worker in biological science, to whom my father

proposed to act in the same useful, if ungrateful capacity,

than as a definite statement as to Mr. Spencer's biological

writings, in which, I understand, a comparison of the

MSS. with the printed volumes shows the removal of but

four* such speculative passages during the proof stage.
   But the period assigned to this " devil's advocacy," go

ing back " thirty odd years " from 1884 to the beginning
of my father's acquaintance with Mr. Spencer, indicates

that the playful allusion must be as much to the informal

dialectics of conversation as to serious written work, for

the reading of proofs referred to above only began with

the Synthetic Philosophy in 1860.  L. Huxley.

  It is manifestly needful that I should give a permanent

place to these letters. Were they to disappear, the one
privately and the other in an ephemeral publication, the
first edition of Professor Huxley's Life and Letters would
establish everywhere the belief that my writings at large
had had the benefit of his criticisms, and that had it not

been for his restraints I should have set forth numerous

ill-based speculations in the thirteen volumes treating of
Psychology, Sociology, Ethics, and miscellaneous sub

jects.

   [* Not quite correct. There were two in First Principles and two in

556

                 APPENDIX A.

[The following programme of the Synthetic Philosophy,
issued in the spring of 1860, though quoted in the preface to

"First Principles," is given here as being a biographical
document. A further reason for re-quoting it is that oppor
tunity is afforded for appending the names of the first

subscribers, which are not without interest.]

            A SYSTEM OF PHILOSOPHY.

Mr. Herbert Spencer proposes to issue in periodical parts, a
connected series of works which he has for several years
been preparing. Some conception of the general aim and
scope of this series may be gathered from the following
Programme.

                      FIRST PRINCIPLES.

   Part I. The Unknowable. -- Carrying a step further the

doctrine put into shape by Hamilton and Mansel ; pointing
out the various directions in which Science leads to the same
conclusions ; and showing that in this united belief in an
Absolute that transcends not only human knowledge but
human conception, lies the only possible reconciliation of
Science and Religion.

  II. Laws of the Know able. --A statement of the ultimate

principles discernible throughout all manifestations of the
Absolute --those highest generalizations now being disclosed
by Science, which are severally true not of one class of
phenomena but of all classes of phenomena ; and which are
thus the keys to all classes of phenomena.*
oosennr·v"O"aPTtnrrioeoangnorsoefcfsetsfnho:edrsceeenitst;ga"elLnaaPewrhsayeliscazionaodntliodognCsyma;uasy"ise;batehn"adtgaathtchetuhrereirrreedandrtelifysrosemiknvndeoiarcwaapnltueobdatlhsiseihnr"es.dtahepeacssopaneyr

                                                  557

                             APPENDICES

   [Vn logical order should here come the application of these
First Principles to Inorganic Nature. But this great division

it is proposed to pass over: partly because, even without
                                                                           of
the scheme too extensive; and partly because the inter                            is it,
of
                of     Organic Nature after the proposed method
                     is
pretation

      more immediate         bime--portance.    The second work                  the

series will therefore        ]

                                         I.
              THE PRINCIPLES OF BIOLOGY.

                                      Vol.

Part The Data of Biology. -- Including those general
          I.

truths of Physics and Chemistry with which rational Biology

must set out.

  II. The Inductions of Biology. -- A statement of the
leading generalizations which Naturalists, Physiologists, and

Comparative Anatomists, have established.
  III. The Evolution                  TLhiefeD. e--veCloopnmceernntingHytphoethsepseiscu"l--a
                             aso"f
tion commonly known

its priori and posteriori evidences.
a
                                      Vol. II.
         ;

                          a
IV. Morphological Development. -- Pointing out the re

lations that are everywhere traceable between organic forms

and the average of the various forces to which they are

subject and seeking in the cumulative effects of such forces

a tVh.eoPryhyosfiothloe gfoicrmals. Development. -- The progressive dif
ferentiation of functions similarly traced; and similarly

interpreted as consequent upon the exposure of different

parts of organisms            to different sets of conditions.                   re

  VI. The Laws               of Multiplication. -- Generalizations

specting the rates of reproduction of the various classes of
plants and animals; followed by an attempt to show the

dependence of these variations upon certain necessary

causes.*

   * The ideas to be developed in the second volume          of the  Principles  Aorf
Biology the writer has already briefly expressed in          sundry    Review
ticles. Part IV. will work out a doctrine suggested in a paper on "The
Laws of Organic Form," published in the Medico-Chirurgical Review
for January 1859.           The germ  "ofSePearEtssVa.ys,    contained in
"Transcendental          Physiology:                     is pp. 280-90.    an essay on
                                                           expressed in a  And in Part
VI. will be unfolded certain views crudely
                                                                            "Theory of

                                      558

THE PRINCIPLES OF SOCIOLOGY

THE PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY.

                                Vol. I.

Part I. The Data of Psychology. --Treating of the gen
eral connexions of Mind and Life, and their relations to

other modes of the Unknowable.

  II. The Inductions of Psychology. --A digest of such

generalizations respecting mental phenomena as have already

been empirically established. [This proved to be a very
inadequate description.]

  III. General Synthesis. --A republication, with addi

tional chapters, of the same part in the already-published

PriInVc.iplSeps ecoifalPsSyychnothloegsyi.s. -- A republication, with extensive

revVi.sioPnhsyasnidcaalddSityionntsh,esoisf .t--heAsnamaettepmaprtt,   &c. &c.  the  manner
                                                                      to show

in which the succession of states of consciousness conforms

to a certain fundamental law of nervous action that follows
from the First Principles laid down at the outset.

                             Vol. II.

  VI. Special Analysis. -- As at present published, but fur

ther elaborated by some additional chapters.

  VII. General Analysis. -- As at present published, with

several explanations and additions.

  VIII. Corollaries. -- Consisting in part of a number of

derivative principles which form a necessary introduction
to Sociology.*

          THE PRINCIPLES OF SOCIOLOGY.

                                  Vol. I.

  Part I. The Data of Sociology. --A statement of the
several sets of factors entering into social phenomena -- hu

man ideas and feelings considered in their necessary order
of evolution ; surrounding natural conditions ; and those

* Respecting the several additions to be made to the Principles of
Psychology, it seems   needful  only to        that    Part V. is the           unwritten
division named in the  preface  to that   say        division of which           the germ
                                         work  --a

is contained in a note on page 544, and of which the scope has since been
more definitely stated in a paper in the Mcdico-Chirurgical Review for

                                559

                               APPENDICES

ever-complicating conditions to which Society itself gives

origin.

  II. The Inductions of Sociology. --General facts, struc
tural and functional, as gathered from a survey of Societies

and their changes : in other words, the empirical generaliza

tions that are arrived at by comparing different societies, and

sucIcIIe.ssiPveolipthicasaels  of the same society.  evolution  of govern
                               Organization. --The

ments, general and local, as determined by natural causes ;

their several types and metamorphoses ; their increasing
complexity and specialization; and the progressive limita
tion of their functions.

                               Vol. II.

  IV. Ecclesiastical Organization. --Tracing the differ

entiation of religious government from secular ; its successive
complications and the multiplication of sects ; the growth
and continued modification of religious ideas, as caused by

advancing knowledge and changing moral character ; and
the gradual reconciliation of these ideas with the truths of

abstract science.

   V. Ceremonial Organization. --The naturaj history of

that third kind of government which, having a common root

with the others, and slowly becoming separate from and

supplementary to them, serves to regulate the minor actions

of life.

  VI. Industrial Organization. --The development of pro

ductive and distributive agencies, considered, like the fore

going, in its necessary causes: comprehending not only the

progressive division of labour, and the increasing complexity

of each industrial agency, but also the successive forms of

industrial government as passing through like phases with

political government.          Vol. III.

VII. Lingual Progress. -- The evolution of Languages re

garded as a psychological process determined by social con

ditions.

  VIII. Intellectual Progress. --Treated from the same

point of view : including the growth of classifications ; the
evolution of science out of common knowledge ; the advance

from qualitative to quantitative prevision, from the indefinite

                               560

                  THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY

with : tracing their gradual differentiation from primitive
institutions and from each other; their increasing varieties
of development ; and their advance in reality of expression
and superiority of aim.

  X. Moral Progress. -- Exhibiting the genesis of the slow

emotional modifications which human nature undergoes in
its adaptation to the social state.

  XI. The Consensus. --Treating of the necessary interde

pendence of structures and of functions in each type of
society, and in the successive phases of social development.*

        THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY.

                      Vol. I.

Part I. The Data of Morality. -- Generalizations fur

nished by Biology, Psychology and Sociology, which under
lie a true theory of right living: in other words, the elements

of that equilibrium between constitution and conditions of

existence, which is at once the moral ideal and the limit

towards which we are  proogfreMssiongra. lity.           --  Those  empirically-

  II. The Inductions

established rules of human action which are registered as
essential laws by all civilized nations : that is to say--the

generalizations of expediency.

  III. Personal Morals. --The principles of private con

duct --physical, intellectual, moral and religious--that follow

from the conditions of complete individual life : or, what is
the same thing--those modes of private action which must

result from the eventual equilibration of internal desires and

external needs.

   * Of this treatise of Sociology a few small fragments may be found in

already-published essays. Some of the ideas to be developed in Part II.
are indicated in an article on "The Social Organism," contained in the
last number of the Westminster Review; those which Part V. will work

out, may be gathered from the first                      ohofaf lSfPcaoierfnt caeVp;IaI"Ip.etrwtohwerpitagtepenermrsssoomnaere"yceToahnres
since on "Manners and Fashion;"
        ainndanFuanrtcictiloenonoftheMu's'icGe"neasnisd   "The Philosophy of Style." con
tained
Origin
tain some ideas to be embodied in Part IX.; and from a criticism of Mr.
Bain's work on "The Emotions and the Will," in the last number of the
Medico-Chirurgical Review, the central idea to be developed in Part X.

may be inferred.

        79 561

                    APPENDICES

                    Vol. II.

   IV. Justice. --The mutual limitations of men's actions
necessitated by their co-existence as units of a society --
limitations, the perfect observance of which constitutes that

state  of equilibrium forming the goal of political  progress.
       Negative Beneficence. -- Those secondary       limitations,
   V.

similarly necessitated, which, though less important and not

cognizable by law, are yet requisite to prevent mutual de

struction of happiness in various     indirect   ways  ; in  other
words -- those minor self-restraints   dictated    by  what   may

be called passive sympathy.

  VI. Positive Beneficence. -- Comprehending all modes of

conduct, dictated   by active   sympathy,  which imply pleasure
in giving pleasure             of conduct  that social adaptation
                    -- modes

has induced and must render ever more general ; and which,

in becoming universal, must fill to the full the possible

measure of human happiness.*

   In anticipation of the obvious criticism that the scheme

here sketched out is too extensive, it may be remarked that
an exhaustive treatment of each topic is not intended ; but
simply the establishment of principles, with such illustra
tions as are needed to make their bearings fully understood.

It may also be pointed out that, besides minor fragments,
one large division (The Principles of Psychology) is already,
in great part, executed. And a further reply is, that impos

sible though it may prove to execute the whole, yet nothing
can be said against an attempt to set forth the First Prin
ciples and to carry their applications as far as circumstances

permit.

   It is proposed to publish in parts of from five to six sheets
octavo (80 to 96 pages). These parts to be issued quarterly;
or as nearly so as is found possible. The price per part to
be half-a-crown; that is to say, the four parts yearly issued
to be severally delivered, post free, to all annual subscribers

                               562

                  THE PRINCIPLES OF MORALITY

   Should an adequate sale be insured (on which contin
gency however the execution of the projected works wholly
depends) the first part will appear in July next.

   London, March 27, 1860.

Those who wish to take in the proposed serial are re

quested to fill up, cut off, and forward (without delay) the
following form to Mr. Manwaring, 8, King William Street,
Strand, London, W. C. This form commits the subscriber
to the first volume only, of the series. Lest the guaranteed
circulation should prove insufficient, no subscription should

be paid until the issue of the first part shows that the design
will   be carried out.  MCr.opMieasnwofartihnigs .  Circular,  for distribu
       may be had of
tion,

                                                                                                         1860.

   Sir,
         Please put down my name for one copy of the first

of Mr. Herbert Spencer's projected series of works; and let

the successive parts be directed to me as below.

                        Name
                        Address-

                        563

                                     APPENDICES

List  of    names     sent    in up to the date                           at which         this  circular

                                   is issued:--

JGOEHONRGSETUGARROTTEM,ILESLQ, .,ESF.QR..S.                           SIR CHARLES LYELL, F.R.S.,
                                                                          F.L.S., F.G.S.,
RIGLHEYT,   HON.      LORD           STAN                             R.                   &c.                                                    M.D.,
            M.P.                                                          G. LATHAM,        ESQ.,
                                                                      JSP.RIRODBFuF..ARp.R.cJHSOTT.O.YH, ONpNMKDr.EePAR. TL,LRF,EE.GSLF.QAS.R..W,.S.NME.DY.,,
CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.,
    F.R.S., F.L.S.,         F.G.S.                                    PROF. BUSK, F.R.S., F.G.S.,
PROF. HUXLEY,               F.R.S.,  F.L.S.,

NESILec. AGR.SN. OTT, ESQ., M.D.,

WER. ASBM. USCADRAPREWNITNE,RE, SQE.SQ.,                              PHREONFF.RL..YS.F.T.WB. UNCEKWLMEA, NE,SQ.M.A.
RG.EOMR.MDG.O,ENFC.ERKL.SITO.,OTFN,.L.ESS.,MQ.FIL.GN.SE.S,
                                                                      G.  BHE. NLCEWE EJSO,NEESSQ, .ESQ.,                                         M.D.,
PORCOTEFAS.QV.I,USSMHA.PRH.P. ESYM, ITMH.,DE.,SQS.ec.                 H.  FR S

                                                                      H. DUNNING MACLEOD,

    R.S., F.R.S.E.                                                    JPEH..R. DOHGE..FS. .QMAS.ITOMEKVRAISNEESKLSOLION,NNG,E,,SMEQES..ASQQ..,.,
PROF. DE MORGAN                                                                                                                                   F.G.S.
E. JOHNSON, ESQ., M.D.                                                                                                                             M.D.
E. S. DALLAS,
J. LOCKHART       CESLQA.RKE,        ESQ.,                            PRCR.OOWLL.FE. .YMS,HIRA.KCD.CKP. R.ABROY.O,,BGFEY.ESRRQ.TSS...,  CAUT-

    F.R.S.                                                                                                                              F.R.S.,
CHARLES BABBAGE, ESQ.,
    F.R.S., F.R.A.S., &c.
W. H. RANSOM, ESQ., M.D.                                                  F.G.S., F.R.S.E., &c.
PROF.  GOLDWIN SMITH.                                            DR. TRAVIS.
O. DE  BEAUVOIR PRIAULX,                                              REV. W. G. CLARK.
                                                                 GEORGE LOWE, ESQ., C.E.,
HWDRE. .PEHSWF.QRWO.AARNLTKSHLHAEDN,IXDEOS, QNF..,,RE.MSS..QD..           F.R.S., F.G.S., &c.
                                                                 PSGEA.RI.LROSEMD.FXR.JP.DAAYI.MGNSL, DAODEFAY.SETRLCTR.ESO,C,. CBLEAKASEIQS,RNQ.K,F.,.,RES.MBSQ..AED.R..T.,
T. SPENCER BAYNES, ESQ.,
    LL.B.
PJ.RCOHFA. PMAGNR,AHEASQM.,,  M.D.
                                   F.R.S.,
    F.G.S., D.C.L., &c.                                                   FROUDE,
T.  LF. AHLUCNOTN,ERES, Q.                                       J. A.       HENRY  ESQH. OLLAND,
                                     M.D.,                       SIR
H.                          ESQ.,                                         BART., M.D., F.R.S., F.G.S.,
     F.R.S., F.L.S.,  F.KGI.NS.GSLEY,
REV. CHARLES                                                           &c.      HERSCHEL.BART.,
    F.L.S., F.S.A., &c.
                                                                 SIR JOHN
                                                                          F.R.S., F.R.A.S., F.G.S., &c.

M. CHARLES DE REMUSAT,                                           M. slEeegiMelleIrdLedE'EFDtraa.tn,cFeO&, Rc.GAnUcEieSn. Con-
     de l'Acad^mie Francaise, An-                                M. AMEDEE PICHOT, D.M.,
    cien Ministre, &c, &c.
                                                                      Directeur de la Revue Bri-
M. JULES SIMON, Ancien Pro-                                           tannique.

     fesseur de Philosophic au Col

                                                                 564

                APPENDIX B.

[The following is the letter to Mr. G. H. Lewes, referred to
at the close of chapter xxxvi, as having resulted from the
publication of the "Reasons for dissenting from the Phi
losophy of M. Comte".}

My dear Lewes,  29 Bloomsbury Sq. W.C.
                                   March 21st, 1864.

Thanks for your criticisms, some of which are impor

tant as saving me from an over-statement that would have

been mischievous. With respect to the others I will briefly

reply to the most important ; and after troubling you to read

these replies and my comments on the propositions contained

in your two notes, I will say no more on the matter.
  I was wrong in the assertion that Comte repudiated the

science of mind : I should have said the subjective analysis
Iof mind. That he does this take on your own evidence ;

since you quote John Mill against him on this point.

  The proposition which I oppose to Comte's proposition of

the three successive states, theological, metaphysical, and
positive, you say is " by no means a counter-proposition ".
When Comte says that the three methods are " different and

even radically opposed," while I say that the method is one

that continues essentially the same; and when he says that

there are three possible terminal conceptions while I say

there is but one possible terminal conception ; it seems to me

                565

                                     APPENDICES

   I have not read Littre. Harrison named the fact that he
had replied to me, and I have as yet only skimmed the

chapter in which he does this and sought elsewhere for my
name to see whether he anywhere regards me as a partial

adherent. As he does not do so I conceive that the note is
justified. But I have put a note recognizing your criticism

respecting ideas and emotions; and meeting it.

  You say I have not recognized Comte's " conception of

sociology as a science" among his distinctive doctrines.

I do not see that it is distinctive of him. The conception

that there is a social science was surely, as Masson shows,

entertained by Vico and Kant -- vaguely if you like. That

which is distinctive of Comte is his elaboration of the con
ception. Surely, too, you will not deny that there have been
other conceptions of social science among the German
thinkers, however wild and untenable. Unless you can show
that before Comte no one believed that social phenomena
conform to law, you cannot say that the conception of social
science is distinctive of Comte.

  You ask, too, why I do not put down, as among his dis

tinctive doctrines, the idea of a philosophy constructed out

of the sciences. I do not admit this to be distinctive any
more than the other. I refer you to your own History of

Philosophy (p. 348), in proof that Bacon had an idea of
such a philosophy ; and, as far as it goes, a very true one.

I hold that his assertion that " unless natural philosophy be

drawn out to particular sciences; and again, unless these
particular sciences be brought back again to natural phi
losophy," involves a more correct conception of the relations
of the sciences to each other than Comte's elaborated hier
archy of the sciences. Bacon's conception is vague and true:

Comte's conception is definite and untrue. I really cannot

see that the notion of an organization of the sciences into
one whole can be claimed for Comte.

   You protest against my representing Comte as excluding

                                                  566

                                 APPENDIX B

he does not do so what becomes of his alleged distinction
between the perfection of the metaphysical system and the
perfection of the positive system.

   In your first note you say " when Comte insists on the
relativity of knowledge he thereby postulates an Absolute,
as you do." I do not see how you can say this if you mean
that he consciously or avowedly does so. Have I not myself
joined issue with Hamilton and Mansel on this very point;
and endeavored to show that the existence of an Absolute is

necessarily postulated though they have not recognised this

necessity? And if Hamilton and Mansel assert the rela

tivity of knowledge and do not recognize fhe implied con
sciousness of existence transcending knowledge, is it not
legitimate to say that Comte does the same when there are
his own words to show it ?

   One of the implications of your first note, and of our con

versations, is that I ought to recognize myself " indebted to

Comte as one independent thinker may be indebted to a

predecessor." I do not admit that I am reluctant to recog

nize indebtedness to predecessors : it is a question of the

predecessor. If anyone says that had von Baer never written
I should not be doing that which I now am, I have nothing

to say to the contrary -- I should reply it is highly probable.
But because I am deeply indebted to one predecessor, I do
not see that I am called upon to admit indebtedness to an
other when I am unconscious of it.

   You say that you may have thought that my antagonistic
attitude towards Comte has tended to suppress the growth
of any consciousness of indebtedness to Comte. Possibly.
But allow me to point out, on the other hand, that the atti
tude of Comte's disciples, and your own attitude in particular
as expositor, is one which inevitably tends to generate an
exaggerated estimate of Comte's influence, and inevitably

tends to make you assume indebtedness on insufficient

                                                  567

                                     APPENDICES

never saw his works. This is perfectly true. If you mean

to imply that any such diffused influence affected me before

I wrote Social Statics, I say it is out of the question ; for

my reading up to that time had been wholly confined to the
special sciences, and to party-politics, joined with miscel
laneous light reading and an occasional glance into the elder

writers on philosophy. The only book, which, so far as I

know, was a means of diffusing any of Comte's ideas was

Mill's Logic; and this I did not read until at least two years
after Social Statics was written -- a fact of which you will
I believe find evidence without going far. [Referring to
George Eliot, who had presented me with a copy of Mill's

Logic.']

  I fancy that you and other partial adherents of Comte

mistake as an atmosphere of Comtean thought, what is
nothing else than the atmosphere of scientific thought. Those
whose education has been mainly literary, are unable to re
alize the mental attitude of those whose education has been

mainly scientific --especially where the scientific education

has been joined to scientific tendencies, and a life of prac
tical science continually illustrating theoretic science, as in
my own case. How little influence Comte's teachings have
had on scientific thinking in England, will be shown by the

accompanying paragraph; which I suppressed from my ap

pendix from the desire to avoid seeming needlessly hostile.
   And now let me deal with your two most specific points,

taking first the question of the Sociology. You say--" Was
not Comte the one who attempted to construct a Sociology
on the positive method -- and is not that your aim also?"

If you say that here is a resemblance, you say truly. If you say
that here is priority on the part of Comte, you say truly. If

you say that here is indebtedness on my part, I do not admit it.

If you believe that I was acquainted with Comte's ideas
before Social Statics was written, you may suppose that I

derived the notion of a social organism (which is the only

                                                  568

                        APPENDIX B

suppose this, I do not see what grounds you have for the
assumption that I am here in any way indebted to Comte.

The conception of Social Science which I have now, differs

in nothing except further development from the conception
set forth in Social Statics. With the exception of quite

minor ethical propositions, I hold to all that is in Social
Statics; and in the various political essays which I have

since written, have shown its further development by the

addition of conceptions which I have proved, by the analysis
I sent you, to be neither allied to those of Comte nor sug
gested by them. I contend that, starting with Social

Statics, passing through these several steps to the wider

generalization of social phenomena given in the essay on

Progress, and from thence by other steps to the views which

I now hold, there is a development on lines of organization

that cannot be traced to him; but are manifestly traceable

to the extension of von Baer's principle, and to the rational

ization of it which I have since attempted. [This statement,

along with some preceding and succeeding ones, and along
with a passage in the " Reasons for dissenting from the Phi

losophy of M. Comte," make it clear that I had, in 1864, for

gotten some of the ideas reached in 1850; for on pp. 451-53
of Social Statics, where individual organisms and social

organisms are shown to be similar in the respect that
progress from low types to high types is progress from uni
formity of structure to multiformity of structure, there is,
in so far, and in other words, a recognition of the law
which von Baer formulated in respect of the development
of each organism, as a progress from homogeneity to heter

ogeneity.]
The other important point is that raised in your question --
" Was not Comte the man who first constructed a Philosophy
                        sciences --and                                  "
out  of  the  separate                  is  not  that  your  aim  also
                                                                           ?

Here, it seems to me, is the chief source of difference

between us. I venture to think that you are assimilating

                        569

                  APPENDICES

lineal descent between systems which are not only generically

distinct or ordinally distinct, but which belong to distinct

classes. What is Comte's professed aim? To give a co

herent account of the progress of human conceptions. What
is my aim? To give-^coherent account of the progress of

the external world. JZomte proposes to describe the neces
sary, and the actual, filiation of ideas. I propose to describe

the necessary, and the actual, filiation of things. Comte

professes to interpret the genesis of our knowledge of nature.
My aim is to interpret, as far as it is possible, the genesis of

the phenomena which constitute nature. The one end is
subjective. The other is objectiv^ How then can the one be

the originator of the other? If I had taken the views briefly

set down in The Genesis of Science, and developed them
into an elaborate system showing the development and co

ordination of human knowledge in pursuance of a theory

at variance with that of Comte ; then you might rightly have

said that the one was suggested by the other. Then you
might rightly have asked -- " Was not Comte the man who
first constructed a Philosophy out of the separate sciences --

and is not that your aim also?" A philosophy of the sciences

has a purely abstract subject-matter. A philosophy of na

ture has a purely concrete subject-matter, and how the one can
Ibeget the other
                  do not see. A concrete may beget an

abstract; but how an abstract begets a concrete is not

manifest.  Comte's system is avowedly an Organon of the
Sciences.
           The scheme at which I am working has been

called by Martineau a Cosmogony. Surely in the genera

tion of thought, an Organon should give origin to an Or

ganon and a Cosmogony to a Cosmogony. If you look for
my predecessors, and if you point to the Cosmogonies of

Hegel and Oken as being conceptions which may have influ

enced me, I do not say nay : I knew the general natures of

Hegel's and Oken's Cosmogonies, and widely different as
their conceptions are from my own, they are conceptions of

the same class, and may very possibly have had some sug-

                  570

                 APPENDIX B

gestive influence.* But why, in seeking the parentage of

the Cosmogony at which I am working, you should pass over

antecedent Cosmogonies, and fix on an Organon of the

Sciences for its parent, is more than I understand.
  And now, having pointed out what I conceive to be the

fundamental difference between the natures and aims of

Comte's scheme and my own (which your question assumes
to be the same in nature and aim) let me take a further
step. Looking at it from this new point of view, glance

through the essay on Progress. Having done this, ask

yourself, in the first place, whether you see any Comtean
inspiration in that --whether you see in it anything more

than the extension of von Baer's principle and the en
deavour to interpret that principle deductively? You must

I think answer -- No. In the second place, ask yourself

whether there are not in that essay the rudiments of the
scheme which is developed in First Principles. You cannot
but answer --Yes. And then, in the third place, ask, is it so

foreign to my nature to go on further developing ideas,

that you cannot believe that the last of these has grown
out of the first? In the essay on Progress there is a rudi
mentary Cosmogony. In First Principles there is a more

elaborated Cosmogony. Is it unnatural that the one should

in the course of some years have evolved the other?

  Even while I write I am reminded of evidence on this

point, which, however inconclusive it may be to others, is

perfectly conclusive to myself; and makes me more than
ever certain of the truth of my denial. You may remember

that at the end of 1858 or beginning of 1859, I made an

effort to obtain some appointment, which should give me

sufficient means and leisure to do that which I am now

* Sixteen years after this letter was written, the analogy between the
Synthetic Philosophy and the system of Hegel, in so far as the subject
matter is concerned, was alleged by Mons.           Carrau. In an     ahreticsleaidp:u--b
                                                    1st April, 1880,  la m^thode
l"ishCe'edst  in the Revue des Detix Mondes     on
               1'EncyclopeMie de Hegel refaite  au  point de vue de

expe>imentale."

                 571

                                     APPENDICES

doing. I have a distinct recollection of then explaining to

Mr. Grote, who took some interest in the matter, that my
purpose was to elaborate the ideas contained in the essay on
Progress, which had then taken a larger development. And

if Mr. J. S. Mill keeps his letters, I am greatly mistaken
if it cannot be shown by the correspondence I then had with
him, that I gave him the same explanation of my aims.*

   Whether you do or do not continue to think as you did on
this matter, you will at any rate see that the amount and
kind of evidence which (to myself) warrants my continual
denial, is abundant and definite. And unless there is virtue
in saying that you are indebted when you are not conscious

of being indebted, I think I am not only warranted in

making the denial but bound to make it.
   In brief, then, my position is this :--Until it is shown that

the views of social science I now hold, differ from those

contained in Social Statics, by something more than differ
ence of development --until it is shown that a Cosmogony is
not to be rightly affiliated on preceding Cosmogonies but is
to be rightly affiliated on an Organon of the Sciences --until
it is shown that the essay on Progress does not contain the
rudiments out of which First Principles has naturally de

veloped --until it is shown that I have adopted some general

view of Comte's, or been led by his teaching to abandon

some view I previously held; I shall continue to assert that
I am uninfluenced by Comte, save in those minor views of
his which I avowedly accept, and by the influence of antag

onism. And until some such specific evidence is assigned,

I shall continue to think the opposite assertion unwarranted.

                                              Sincerely yours,

                                               HERBERT SPENCER.

  [* Fortunately he had kept my letter. He returned it to me and I

                                                  572

APPENDIX C.

[Documents concerning the intended cessation of the issue
of the Synthetic Philosophy, and concerning the measures
taken to prevent it.]

Private.

                                         London, April 8th, 1866.
Sir,

The subscribers to Mr. Herbert Spencer's System of

Philosophy have been informed through a circular from the

Publisher, that owing to the present insufficiency of Sub

scriptions its publication must be discontinued.

Mr. Spencer having declined several offers of direct con

tributions towards the expenses of publishing his great work,

the only alternative remaining would appear to be, that

those to whom its discontinuance would be a matter of deep

regret, should subscribe for a sufficient number of copies to

secure the author from loss.

   It is estimated that 250 additional Subscriptions would
suffice for this purpose.

Should you be disposed to join the undersigned in taking

additional copies, you are requested to fill up the enclosed

form and send it to Messrs. Williams & Norgate.

George Busk,                       John Lubbock,
John Tyndall,
                                   J. S. Mill,

                                   T. H. Huxley.

                              573

                          APPENDICES

To Messrs. Williams & Norgate,

14 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, W.C.

Enter my name as a Subscriber to the 4th and following

volumes of Mr. Herbert Spencer's System of Philosophy ;
* Number of Subscriptions
                                          .

Name

A d dress                                                            ,

   Messrs. Williams & Norgate are ready to take charge of,

and keep for the subscribers the copies they may subscribe

for for the present purpose, if directed to do so.

The second of the two circulars named in Chapter XXXVIII

here follows: --

                          The Royal School of Mines, Jermyn Street,

                           May 18th, 1866.

My dear Sir,

I think it is desirable that a copy of the accompanying

letter addressed to me by Mr. Spencer, should be sent to all

those who have expressed a wish to co-operate with Mr.

Busk, Sir John Lubbock, Mr. Mill, Prof. Tyndall, and

myself, in carrying out the plan suggested in our circular

of April 8th last.

   Mr. Spencer's letter appears to me to preclude us from
any corporate action in promoting the pecuniary success of

his works ; but so stout a champion of personal liberty, can,

I am sure, make no objection to efforts on the part of indi

viduals, who reflect that his time and his labours are still

bestowed without remuneration, to extend the list of sub

scribers.                    I am, yours                       very faithfully,
   Sydney
                          Esq.                                     T. H. HUXLEY.

            Williams,

   * The    subscription  offofrouer acphartcso)p£y$b--ein,,g    10  s--hillwinogusld  per annum (or
rather for   each issue                                                                 represent Ten
                                                               --,,

                           574

                 APPENDIX C

My dear Huxley,       17 Wilmot Street, Derby,
                              13th May, 1866.

          You are aware of the sad event which brought me

down here some three weeks ago. This event has conse

quences respecting which it seems proper that I should

write to you without further delay.

When, along with the last number of the Biology, I issued

a notice of cessation, to take place on the completion of the

volume now in progress, I did so because I felt that I was
not justified in continuing to sink what little property I

possess, as I have been doing year by year since I began

publishing. My position is now so far changed, that it will

be possible for me to persevere, without making any other

sacrifice than that of my time.
   As you know, I reluctantly assented to the measures that

had, unknown to me, been taken by friends interested in the

continuance of my work, only because otherwise the alter

natives were, discontinuance of it or prospective ruin. Now

that these are no longer the alternatives, my reason for

assenting disappears. I shall feel much more at my case in
going on with my serial as heretofore, than I should feel

with the help of that additional circulation of it proposed to
be secured -- in however delicate a way.

   Will you, therefore, be kind enough to see that the ar
rangements lately entered into are cancelled -- not, however,

without expressing my acknowledgments to those who have

entered into them. While I regret that you, and others who

have co-operated, should have spent so much time and

trouble in devising a plan now to be abandoned, the conclu

sive proofs of sympathy with my aims that have been thus
given, will ever be a gratifying remembrance to me.

                 Very sincerely yours,

                             HERBERT SPENCER.

                 575

            APPENDIX D.

[An account of the invalid-bed, as given by the "British
Medical Journal" for July 27, 1867.]

            A NEW INVALID-BED.

There is now on view at the establishment of Mr. Ward,

the invalid chair-maker, Leicester Square, a new invalid-

bed, admitting of a much greater variety of movements than

any of those at present in use. The upper framework has

adjustments similar to those of an ordinary fracture-bed ;

permitting the body to be raised to various inclinations, and

the knees to be bent to various angles. But the peculiarity

is, that this frame-work is supported, under its centre, on

a large ball-and-socket joint, which allows the whole frame

work, with its variously adjustable parts, to be moved about

bodily in all directions; so as to be inclined longitudinally,

laterally, or both, and to be moved round so as to face all

points of the compass. By means of a simple locking ap

paratus, the framework is firmly fixed in any attitude that

may be desired: a few turns of the handle sufficing again

;

            it,

                                                                               :
to release  and any other attitude to be assumed. Among

the advantages obtained are these --

The patient may be taken out of bed, and put into bed

again, without the effort ordinarily required. The ball being

unlocked, and the bed being gently tipped forwards, so that

its lower end reaches the floor, the patient comes upon his

feet and after the sheets have been changed, or some need

            576

                           A NEW INVALID-BED

ful act performed, he is placed with his back against the
inclined surface of the bed, which, being then made to re

volve backwards, he lies as at first.
   By a lateral, instead of a longitudinal inclination of the

bed, the patient may be turned over from the back on to the
side, or contrariwise ; saving the labour and pain often en
tailed by this change.

   The longitudinal inclination of the bed being changeable
at pleasure, the patient may lie, or may sleep, at any angle
that he may prefer, or that is prescribed; either with the
head higher than the feet, or, as it is sometimes desirable,
with the feet 'somewhat higher than the head : the inclina
tion being of course adjustable to a nicety, and changeable
at will.

   The moveable framework which supports the trunk, being
raised, so that the trunk and legs form an angle (which may
be varied to any extent up to a right angle) the whole bed
may then be moved longitudinally round its centre of sup
port, so that the body in this bent position may have the
head and feet placed at all varieties of relative elevation.
For example, while the trunk is horizontal the legs may be
greatly inclined upwards, an attitude that is desirable where
injury of the foot or knee renders it proper to diminish the
pressure of blood.

   The framework that bends the knees being raised, as well
as that which inclines the trunk, the same longitudinal rota
tion of the framework gives a great variety of partly-reclin
ing, partly-sitting postures. The patient may be placed,
without any effort to him, in all attitudes between that of
lying horizontally, and that of sitting upright in an easy

chair.
   These movements may, of course, be all of them joined

with any such degree of lateral inclination of the bed as is
desired ; so that, supposing the framework has been adjusted
somewhat into the form of an easy chair, and tilted forwards
or backwards so as to bring a wounded arm or foot to the

                  so 577

                                     APPENDICES

right height, the bed may be at the same time tilted side
ways, so as to bring this wounded arm or foot on the upper
most side, into the most convenient position for dressing
the wound.

   At the same time the movement of horizontal rotation

being brought into play, the whole bed may be moved round
until the injured part is turned towards the light : this same
horizontal rotation being, at other times, available for giving
the patient change of view, enabling him to look out of the
window when raised in the sitting posture, or to have his

face turned away from the light if it is distressing.
   To the side of the framework is fixed a moveable arm,

carrying a small table, to support a plate or basin, and this
table, by a slight change of position, also becomes a reading-
easel.

   One of the advantages of the bed not originally foreseen,
but which has come out in practice, is that of being able to
make certain changes in a patient's position quite suddenly.
When the ball-and-socket joint is but partially locked, so
that a moderate force applied to the head or foot of the bed
will change its position, the patient, previously lying back,

may be instantly raised into the sitting posture if a coughing

fit come on.
   One further use that may be named is, that when the ball-

and-socket joint is completely unlocked, so as to permit
perfect freedom of movement, two attendants, seizing the
handles on the opposite sides of the bed, may give the
patient a little exercise, by rocking the bed from side to side
in the manner of a cradle.

    Beyond the special advantages above described, there are
some general advantages. The ability to change the posture
of the patient in such a variety of ways and degrees, without
any effort to him, must tend to diminish that pain, weari
ness, and irritability, caused by long continuance of the
same attitude, or by small choice of attitudes, and must so

                                                  578

                           A NEW INVALID-BED
pated, is, that bed sores may be avoided, the points of chief
pressure being changeable at will, and as often as is desired.

   This bed, devised by Mr. Herbert Spencer, the distin
guished biologist and philosophical writer, for a member of
his own family, has been in use between four and five
months, and has so far answered his expectations that he
has had a second made, with sundry improvements, hoping
that it may be of service to others. Mr. Spencer has re
frained from patenting it : not wishing to place any obstacle

                                                 579

                 APPENDIX E.

[A letter concerning the feeling in England at the time when
there began the American War between North and South--
a letter written for publication in the " New York Tribune,"
and which, though withheld at the time, was published in
that Journal some years later.']

  My Dear Youmans: When you were here I told you

that the Americans wholly misconceive the feeling with
which England at first regarded the quarrel between North

and South. To others of your countrymen I have, from
time to time, made the same statement ; and I have urged

more than one of them to examine for himself the evidence
furnished by our press, and to publish the results of his
examination. Nothing has come of my suggestions, how

ever. Whether those I spoke to thought it impossible that

the truth could be so entirely at variance with their belief

as I represented, or whether they preferred cherishing a
belief which seemed to justify their indignation, I cannot say :

probably both causes conspired with their dislike to the
required trouble.

   The importance of disabusing the American mind on this
matter is increasingly manifest. That hostile feeling to
ward us which has for years been displayed by your journals

and your orators, has been largely if not mainly caused by
the impression that gratuitous ill-will was felt by us from
the outset; and I cannot but think that were this erroneous

                                                  58o

APPENDIX E

to an understanding on disputed questions. Failing to find

any one else to do what it seems to me should be done, I

have myself had collected the requisite materials, with the

view of affording to Americans the means of judging how
far they are warranted in cherishing that animosity which

has lately been exhibited more violently than ever.
   In the first place let me show you the public opinion that

existed in England at the time that secession was impending,
as that opinion was expressed in the columns of the press.

" In South Carolina, and Alabama, and Georgia, an appeal

is to be made to the last powers vested in the State Consti

tution, with a view to disunion, on no ground whatever,

that can be discovered, except that they do not like Mr.
Lincoln. * * * To all our political notions there is no

more reason for the violences reported from the Southern

States than there would be for the electors of Southwark

refusing to pay assessed taxes because Lord Palmerston
had declared against the ballot. * * * The Southern

States certainly would not mend matters by a separation.
* * * Anything is better than dividing State against

State, house against house, and servant against master in

the most rising nation in the world."

" Without sharing the opinions,     [Times, Dec. 5, i860.
                                  much less using the lan

guage, of the Abolitionists with respect to Slavery, which
bad though it be, must remain for many years an institution

of the United States, we look upon the conduct of South

Carolina in this matter as disgraceful in the last degree.

To gratify their pique against those of opposite politics, and
to advance their local interests, the Slave-owners would

destroy a Constitution under which their country has en

joyed singular prosperity."       [Times, Dec. 11, i860.
" The Americans may confidently assure themselves that

there is no party in this kingdom which desires anything
but the maintenance and prosperity of the Union. * * *

We cannot disguise from ourselves that, apart from all polit
ical complications, there is a right and a wrong in this

question, and that the right belongs, with all its advantages,

                             58l

                                APPENDICES

could not be put forth by men sensible enough to conduct

public affairs unless they were so dishonest as to be un
worthy of the trust. The threat is either an outbreak of

mad passion, or a device to obtain concessions from the fears
                                          [Daily News, Jan. 2, 1861.
and affections of the North."           States of America are beset
   " Granted that the United
with peculiar difficulties in treating this question [Slavery] --

when are these difficulties to vanish, when are they to be

lessened under the domination of the South? Have not the
                                        iniquity to iniquity? * * * *
So"utWheern    states gone on   from     slave-owners are necessarily
             must not forget      that

aggressive in every sense, and that in the United States they

have been as a minority not only dominant and aggressive,

but turbulent, insolent, and overbearing even towards the

majority of their own race and nation."
                                    [Morning Herald, Dec. 27, 1860.
" If the Southern             States were the advocates of a cause

less pernicious and detestable than the extension of slavery,

we should still think their proceedings foolish and suicidal ;

but, under existing circumstances, they can have neither the

sympathy nor good wishes of any man, either in America or
in England, who has the slightest regard for the progress of

civilization and the interests of humanity."

" We         must  persist  in  the     [Morning Post, Dec. 5, i860.
                                     opinion that this Southern agita
tion is false in its pretences, and will be proved a blunder by
its results ; but, if now, or at any future time, the slave

states should break away from the Union, we might await

with confidence the day when the Northern confederacy,

stronger in its liberty, in its moral power, and in its physical

manhood, would rise and overwhelm its sullen rival, and

crush the system of slavery for ever."

" We         see   also  how         [Daily Telegraph, Dec. 3, i860.
                                intolerant slavery makes its votaries.

They have enjoyed a long lease of power; they have had the

advantage of a large number of pro-slavery Presidents, as

well as of supple majorities in Congress ; and from the ad

mission of Texas into the Union, as a Slave State, down to

the repeal of the Missouri compromise, their demands, mon

strous and unjust as they have been, met with a too ready

compliance. But now, because they have received a check,

and their opponents, whose rights they have so often vio

                                     582

                    APPENDIX E

effrontery to put on an air of injured innocence, and to

pretend that the legitimate triumph of the North is an act

of aggression against them."

                                   [Morning Star, Nov. 27, 1860.
   "They [Slave States] dare not go out of the Union with
their slaves, for they have nowhere to go to. They are a

great deal safer in the friendship and alliance of the North."

    " The election  of Abraham          [Express, Nov. 20, 1860.
                                   Lincoln will be hailed every

where as a declaration that the great Republic is not a slave
Republic. * * * England will now approve of the gen

eral course of the United States policy ; and with the domi-

nancy of the Slave power half the causes of irritation
between the two countries will cease. England must ever

be an anti-slavery country, and its Government of any party

an  "  anti-slavery Government."               [Sun, Nov. 19, 1860.
        But will the South really              out their threat, and
                                        carry

secede from the Union? We believe that all their loud talk
is but bluster, and that they will do nothing so utterly mad
as this. * * * We are persuaded that the North have
little to lose by the change, the South everything. * * *
With the feeling of the whole world against them ; standing

alone in their assertion of a principle which Christianity

and civilization have condemned, the Southern states of
America -- abundant in land, bankrupt in everything else --

would sink rapidly to a lower and lower level, till they had

become as degraded as Mexico."

    " If we  augur  rightly,  the        [Standard, Nov. 24, i860.
                                   Southern rebellion will splutter

a great deal and then subside. It rests upon grounds not

tenable in an Anglo-Saxon community ; for it does not rest

upon any violation of the Constitution, the common law or
the statute book. It rests upon arrogance and ill-temper,

too weak a foundation for a Southern confederacy."

    The  English    " nation may          [Spectator, Dec.  1, 1860.
                                   be trusted to consent    to almost

any sacrifice rather than that the Slave-trade should exceed

its present inevitable limits."

                              [Saturday Review, Dec. 29, i860.

    This universal condemnation of the South and sympathy

                                   583

                          APPENDICES

the news of Secession reached us, was uttered afterwards
in even stronger language. Here are the proofs :

" For our own part, whatever opinions Americans may

have of English policy, we beg to assure them that in this
country there is only one wish-- that the Union may survive

this terrible trial. Should Providence decree it otherwise,

we earnestly pray that the separation may be an amicable one.

Civil war in a flourishing country and among a kindred people

can never be contemplated without horror by a nation like

ours, and we trust that neither the violence of the people
nor the weakness of their leaders will bring this calamity on

the   American Union."        justice,     [Times, Jan. 18,  1861.
   "  Without law, without              without delay, she
                                                             [South
Carolina] is treading in the path that leads to the downfall
of nations and the misery of families. The hollowness of

her cause is seen beneath all the pomp of her labored denun
ciation, and surely to her, if to any community of modern

days, may be applied the words of the Hebrew Prophet --' A

wonderful and horrible thing is committed in   the land.     soT.h' e"
Prophets prophesy falsely, and my people love  to have it

" We  should  be   thankful    to see      [Times, Jan. 19, 1861.
                                           reason to hope that the

"IfSouth could throw off her madness, and agree now to terms
which she must accept at last."            the seceders do not

make the most of that time [i.e. the remaining six weeks of
President Buchanan's    term   of office] to                  a return,
there seems to be no  other   prospect than   negotiate     coercion --
                                              that of

unwilling as the North sincerely is to resort to it."
                               [Daily News, Jan. 21, 1861.
  If the Southern             succeed      in establishing
                   States  a    State   "  insignificantly  a separate
Union, they will   form                                     small and

hated among mankind, for lack of those moral attributes

without which in this age no Power can claim or receive

the respect of civilized and free communities."
                               [Morning Post, Jan. 9, 1861.
" No one desires   to witness  the dismemberment of a great,
friendly, and cognate nation ; but if this object should be
accomplished the blame will rest with the people of the South,

whose treason and rebellion have been aided and abetted
by the temporizing and cowardly policy of Mr. President
                                 [Morning Post, Jan. 12,
Buchanan."         arise  "                                  1861.
                              we must once more rely         on the
  If war should

                              584

                            APPENDIX E

natural laws of justice, and predict that the slave Seces
sionists will be humbled, if not trampled under foot."

" Every         man  who        [Daily Telegraph, Jan. 19, 1861.
                          deserves the name throughout the civ

ilized world gives his hearty sympathy to the North."

" The      free  States         [Daily Telegraph, Jan. 15, 1861.
                          are purging themselves from the con

tempt of the civilized world for past submission to the slave
oligarchs; and whatever may be the intentions of Mr. Lin

coln in reference to the issues agitating the thirty-three

states of the Union, there is ample evidence in the tone of

the Northern press that the doom of Slavery is sealed."

" We deplore                     [Morning Herald, Jan. 28, 1861.
                     the infatuation which impels the Cotton
States to a course so unjustifiable and dangerous. * * *

We sympathize with our brethren of the North in the trial of

principle and temper to which they are subjected."
                                     [Morning Star, Jan. 15, 1861.
" We may well suppose            that the Southern men make them
selves believe their cause a good one -- but the men of the
North know theirs to be so. It requires no tampering with

conscience to enjoy the faith that extension of slavery ought

to be repressed ; and that is the present creed of the North.

It demands the subversion of all Christian instincts to believe

in the right of property in man, and to think slavery an

institution of Heaven ; and that is the creed of the South.

dNyo"inaTghrteiffoicrsepseclcaatvnacelremya!kpe"restehnitsedproinfestsheed   creed a faith.    Think    of
                                                                                 [Sun, Jan.             of
                                                                                             19, 1861.
                                                                            United States
                                                                                             ***

successful rebellion in the South, with timidity and almost

daily change of men and measures in the Government of

Washington, is one which all Englishmen must regard with

pa"inI.n"  our  estimation  the  South  has                                 [Globe, Jan. 14. 1861.
                                                                            all to lose and nothing

to gain by disunion; and unhappily the rest of the world

may lose, too, by conduct which seems to spring from no

source but political pride and passion."

" There         remains no course             [Globe, Jan. 18, 1861.
                                      open to the friends of the
Union but an appeal to the sword. * * * We hold it to

be perfectly clear that the act of secession is rebellion, and

that the Government which neglects by every means in its

                                 585

                                   APPENDICES

the Federal constitution. But, in the present instance the
enormity of the crime of the state of South Carolina is

magnified by the absence of any reasonable ground for their

withdrawal    from the Union."                  [Standard, Jan.  19, 1861.
   " On the    South rests the            whole guilt of this
                                                                  fratricidal
strife; and on the South will fall the worst consequences

of  "thWeecocnafnlicotnilty  has   provoked." [Standard,    May    2,   1861.
                              say  that the South is mad--  mad
                                                                 in    the way

that is caused by passion acting on ignorance and a morbid

se"lf-Twhilel." Southerners        *   *  *      [Express, Jan. 24, 1861.
                                               are fighting, not to be let

alone, but for the preservation and maintenance of the Slave

System, to which everything must be subordinated."

    " It  is  the  dread     of    being          [Spectator, Jan. 5, 1861.
                                          inclosed in a ring fence, a vital

article in the Republican programme, which fills the South

erns with dismay, and urges them on in their mad progress

tow"aTrdhsereaniasrclhitytl.e" danger  that     [Spectator, Jan. 26, 1861.
                                             Englishmen will look on the

dissolution of the United States with languid curiosity or

malicious satisfaction. We have plenty of selfish reasons,
if we had no others, for regarding it with something like
dismay. In fact, the event which South Carolina has reck

lessly precipitated may be said to have involved this country

in the very same embarrassments with which the Northern

United States have so long struggled."

    " The     Northern       States    [Saturday Review, Jan. 12,      1861.
                                       are fully justified in arming
                                                                       for the

support of the Constitution."
                                         [Saturday Review, Feb. 2, 1861.

   Such was the display of English feeling in the daily and
weekly papers of all political parties. The journals of
extreme Toryism joined those of extreme Liberalism in this
unqualified reprobation of the South. Not a single expres

sion of sympathy with the South has been discovered in the

course of the examination. One expression of the kind was, I

am told, published in a monthly magazine, and protested
against as being in absolute opposition to the current of

public opinion. Just that cordial approval which the anti-

                                          586

        APPENDIX E

and which they afterwards so loudly complained that they
did not get, was at first shown to them in the clearest

manner, even by those least friendly to American institu

tions.

How came all this to be changed? When once a senti

ment has been established throughout the whole nation, it
is a difficult- thing to alter it; and the transformation of it

into an opposite sentiment in the course of a few months,

implies some very unusual and very strong influence. After

the English people had unanimously condemned the South

and wished success to the North, it is impossible that a large
part of them should have turned round without a cause.

What was that cause? I know of none but your behaviour

to us. At the very outset, even before Secession had taken

place, there was a predisposition to put an unfavourable

construction on all we said and did. The loud utterances

of a fellow-feeling with you, of which I have given ex

amples that might be indefinitely multiplied, seem either to

have passed unnoticed by your papers, or to have produced

no effect on you; while, on the other hand, ready credence
seems to have been given to " stories of the joy expressed

by Englishmen travelling in the United States at the pros

pect of the Constitution collapsing," which appeared in your

Ipapers as early as December, 1860, and which  find pro

tested against in our papers as incredible. Men who are

biassed, very generally can see only the facts which they

expect to see; and I suppose that the traditional bitterness
against England, encouraged, if I am rightly informed, even

by the lessons in your school-books, made you ready to

believe and remember all allegations of unfriendly feeling

on our part, while you were unready to believe, and very

soon forgot, the clear proofs of our friendly feeling. Thus

only is it possible to account for the fact that, out of the

enormous mass of evidence to the contrary, you extracted

materials for the conviction that we bore you ill-will. Thus

        587

                                     APPENDICES

to our manifestations of sympathy, there came insinuations
respecting our intentions and our motives; false statements
of what we were doing or were about to do ; assertions that
our interests were on the side of the South, and that there
fore we were sure to go with the South; charges of mean
selfishness based on the assumed truth of these assertions ;
ending in invectives that became daily more violent. Friends
who are treated as enemies are not likely to remain friends ;
and your persistent misrepresentations, by alienating some
and producing resentment in others, eventually aroused
among us the hostile sentiment with which we were wrongly
charged. I leave you to judge of the truth of this inference

after telling you how I was myself affected. It has been

said of me by some of your writers that I am in feeling more

an American than an Englishman ; and the statement is in a
considerable degree true. Moreover, at the time in question
(though in a still greater degree afterward), my relations
with individual Americans and with the American public were
such as to heighten my preexisting sympathies. Never

theless, I confess that your behaviour toward us wrought in
me a change similar in kind to that which I saw wrought in

those around me, though not so great in degree. Irritated
day after day by seeing ascribed to Englishmen ignoble

motives which certainly were not prevalent, if they existed

at all, the strength of my fellow-feeling with the North
gradually diminished. Nothing could have made me sym

pathize with the South ; but I can well understand how those

whose detestation of Southern institutions and Southern
conduct was less intense than mine, were at length so much
incensed by your undeserved reproaches that they changed

sides. I do not defend this. I do not think any were

justified in wishing well to your antagonists because they

felt themselves calumniated by you; and perhaps I ought

myself to have kept uncooled my originally warm interest in
your success. But it is not in ordinary human nature to

                                                  588

       APPENDIX E

       Was there not a reason for our hard words, you will say ?

     Did not the premature proclamation of neutrality justify our

     interpretations? I cannot enter at length into this vexed
     question. I will only say that, had such a proclamation been

     made by a people who were displaying unfriendly sentiments

     to you, you might have had some reason to regard it as an

     act of hostility; but coming as it did along with the repro

     bation -- I might almost say execration --of your antagonists,

     it could not reasonably be interpreted otherwise than as a

     step taken in pursuance of our established foreign policy.

     That the step was taken sooner than was necessary for the

     avoidance of entanglements, may or may not be true; but

     even if true, it is surely strange that an error of judgment

     on the part of a Minister should have made you forget the

     manifestations of good feeling from an entire nation.

       No doubt there existed here some who willingly found

     provocation in your treatment of us. Their social position,

     their class-interests, their traditional opinions, have always
     predisposed our " upper ten thousand " to look coldly on a

     society like yours. And irritated as they frequently were

     by having the success of American institutions held up to

     them as a reproach, it is not surprising that they were ready

     to say and do unfriendly things whenever the opportunity

     offered. Hence it became the policy of their journals to

     reproduce here everything you said against us; and when

     the Trent affair and your adverse tariff gave occasion, the

     comments of their journals were, of course, such as to

     increase, as much as possible, the growing alienation. Af

     fording, as the language of your Press continued to do,

     abundant materials for generating this hostile sentiment,
       a
                 it,
     which was at first limited to small minority, spread until

it it  became the prevailing sentiment among the influential

     classes, though not among the mass of the people. And this

       was which led to the angry speeches made by certain

     members of our Legislature; this  it  was which at length

       589

                                     APPENDICES
it was which made possible the unfortunate Alabama busi

ness.

  I have laid before you little else than indisputable facts;
and from these facts such inferences as I have drawn are,
I think, irresistible. It is a fact which any one may verify

by referring to the files of our papers in New York, that for
months after the commencement of your troubles, the unani
mous sympathies of the English with the North were ex
pressed in the most unqualified manner. It is a fact that my
own originally warm interest in the success of the North
was gradually cooled by the groundless suspicions and unde
served reproaches with which you responded to our good
wishes; and if it be an inference that what changed me from
an ardent sympathizer into a lukewarm sympathizer, changed
others from friends into enemies, the inference is one which

scarcely admits of question. The conclusion is, I think,

inevitable, that but for the revolution of feeling brought
about by your behaviour to us, there would never have been
prompted any of those private acts of aid to the Confeder
ates of which you complain, nor would there have hap
pened that gross official negligence which allowed that aid

to be given. I am, very sincerely yours,

                                                         Herbert Spencer

                                                  590

               APPENDIX F.

   A NEW FISHING-ROD JOINT.

[From " The Field" newspaper for January 14, 1871.]

Sir, -- During the late salmon-fishing season, I had the oppor
tunity of trying a rod with a new kind of joint, which I had

made for me in the spring. The results having been satis

factory, a description of it may be of interest to fishermen

who care about improved appliances.

   This new form of joint may be generally described as a

combination of the splice and the socket; possessing, as I

think, the advantages of both without their inconveniences.

   In the figure, A B represents a splice made with a shoulder
at C--the effect of the shoulder being that, so long as the

halves of the splice are held together laterally, they cannot

be drawn apart longitudinally. The halves of the splice are

held together laterally by a sliding socket or collar, D E, of

such length and diameter that when it is drawn down till

the bottom of  E, comes to the point B, or rather to the
               it,
                            B,
dotted line just below          the splice tightly inclosed by the
                                     :

                                       is
collar throughout its whole length the tightness, of course,

resulting from the slight taper of the rod and the correspond

ing taper of the collar. The advantages of this arrangement
are these --
:

1. Decrease of weight. Instead of the usual metal socket

and the metal bracket fitting into which have to bear allit,

                                591

                 APPENDICES

                  there is only a single collar, which
                may be made comparatively thin;
                  since the strain it has to bear is no
                  greater than that which is borne by
                  the wrapping of silk ordinarily cov
                  ering a splice.

                     2. Quickness of adjustment.
                  When the rod is being put together,
                  no time is required to adjust the line
                  of the runners. The fixing of the
                  splice itself fixes the line of the run
                  ners, which cannot afterwards go

               awry. A further and greater econ
                omy of time and trouble, results
                 from dispensing with the usual link

                  of wire or string, needful to prevent
                  the loosening of the joints by con
                  tinual casting.

                      3. Avoidance of entanglements.
                  The existing form of socket joint,
                  needing its tying of wire or string
                  to prevent loosening, causes incon
                  venience and irritation by often
                 catching the line or the flies. This
                  collar-splice joint, as it may fitly be
                  called, offers nothing against which
\ the line or the flies can catch.

                    4. It is quickly taken to pieces :
                   requiring no untying, and not being

                     liable to bind.

                    This last assertion may perhaps
                 be received with scepticism, since it
                   seems obvious that as, in rainy
                 weather, water will get into this
                   joint as into the ordinary one, the

                             592

A NEW FISHING-ROD JOINT

Ibe as great, if not greater. But, anticipating this difficulty,

had especial care taken that the wood should be made water

proof. Soaking it in hot boiled oil and subsequent varnish

ing, rendered it impermeable; so that though, during my

fishing of last season, exposure to rain for many hours
Irepeatedly occurred,
                         never had any inconvenience from

binding. I may add that, as an additional precaution, I

rubbed the surface of the splice, outer and inner, with

tallow. [This was a mistake. I forgot that " verdigris "
would result from contact of tallow with brass. I after

wards used oil. Perhaps vaseline would answer.]

   It may be well to meet a further doubt which some will
feel -- whether the sliding collar will not be loosened by

continual casting, as the ordinary socket is. Recognizing

this possibility before the rod was made, I concluded that

there would be little danger of such an evil. The common

rod is apt to get loose at the joints, because at each cast the

momentum given to the upper parts of the rod tends to

pull them out of their sockets; but in the joint I have

described, the shoulder of the splice effectually prevents this

momentum of the upper parts from producing any effect,

so long as the collar keeps its place ; and there is no tendency

to loosening of the collar, save that resulting from its own

momentum, which is not sufficient to overcome the friction.

Experience verified this anticipation : when the collar was

thrust into its place with moderate tightness, it never stirred.

  Being much simpler than the ordinary joint, it ought, I
should think, to be considerably cheaper; though I cannot

say that the advantage of cheapness was realized in my

experience. But of course anything made for the first time

is much more costly than when it is habitually made. Mr.

Alfred Carter, of St. John's Street Road, Islington, was the
maker; and, on the whole, he carried out my plans satis

factorily.               HERBERT SPENCER.
   37, Queen's Gardens,

Bayswater, Jan. 3.

81 593

APPENDIX G.

OBITUARY NOTICE OF J. S. MILL.

[From the "Examiner" newspaper for May 17, 1873.]

To dilate upon Mr. Mill's achievements, and to insist upon

the wideness of his influence over the thought of his time,

and consequently over the actions of his time, seems to me

scarcely needful. The facts are sufficiently obvious, and are
recognized by all who know anything about the progress of
opinion during the last half-century. My own estimate of

him, intellectually considered, has been emphatically, though

briefly, given on an occasion of controversy between us, by
expressing my regret at " having to contend against the

doctrine of one whose agreement I should value more than

that of any other thinker."

While, however, it is almost superfluous to assert of him

that intellectual height so generally admitted, there is more

occasion for drawing attention to a moral elevation which

is less recognized; partly because his activities in many

directions afforded no occasion for exhibiting
                             I                  and partly

                                                   a
                                                            it,

                                                                               a
because some of its most remarkable manifestations in con

duct, are known only to those whose personal relations with

him have called them forth.       feel especially prompted to

say something on this point, because, where better things

might have been expected, there has been, not only grudg
ing recognition of intellectual rank, but marked blindness
to those fine traits of character which, in the valuation of

                             594

OBITUARY NOTICE OF J. S. MILL

never enjoyed the pleasure of personal acquaintance with

Mr. Mill, would have been impressed with the nobility of his

nature as indicated in his opinions and deeds. How entirely

his public career has been determined by a pure and strong
sympathy for his fellow-men--how entirely this sympathy
has subordinated all desires for personal advantage --how

little even the fear of being injured in reputation or position

has deterred him from taking the course which he thought

equitable or generous ; ought to be manifest to every antag

onist, however bitter. A generosity that might almost be

called romantic was obviously the feeling prompting sundry

of those courses of action which have been commented upon

as errors. And nothing like a true conception of him can

be formed unless, along with dissent from them, there goes

recognition of the fact that they resulted from the eagerness

of a noble nature, impatient to rectify injustice and to

further human welfare.

  It may, perhaps, be that my own perception of this per

vading warmth of feeling has been sharpened by seeing it

exemplified, not in the form of expressed opinions only, but

in the form of private actions. For Mr. Mill was not one

of those who, to sympathy with their fellow-men in the

abstract, join indifference to them in the concrete. There

came from him generous acts that corresponded with his gen
Ierous sentiments.
                    say this not from second-hand knowl

edge, but having in mind a remarkable example known only
Ito myself and a few friends.
                               have hesitated whether to

give this example; seeing that it has personal implications.

But it affords so clear an insight into Mr. Mill's character,

and shows so much more vividly than any description could

Ido how fine were the motives swaying his conduct, that

think the occasion justifies disclosure of it.

Some seven years ago, after bearing as long as was pos

sible the continued losses entailed on me by the publication

of the System of Philosophy, I notified to the subscribers

                    595

                                 APPENDICES

then in progress. Shortly after the issue of this announce

ment I received from Mr. Mill a letter, in which, after

expressions of regret, and after naming a plan which he

wished to prosecute for reimbursing me, he went on to say :--
" In the next place . . . what I propose is, that you

should write the next of your treatises, and that I should

guarantee the publisher against loss, i.e. should engage, after
such length of time as may be agreed on, to make good any
deficiency that may occur, not exceeding a given sum, that
sum being such as the publisher may think sufficient to
secure him." Now though these arrangements were of kinds

that I could not bring myself to yield to, they none the less

profoundly impressed me with Mr. Mill's nobility of feeling,
and his anxiety to further what he regarded as a beneficial
end. Such proposals would have been remarkable even had
there been entire agreement of opinion. But they were the

more remarkable as being made by him under the conscious

ness that there existed between us certain fundamental dif

ferences, openly avowed. I had, both directly and by impli

cation, combated that form of the experiential theory of
human knowledge which characterizes Mr. Mill's philoso
phy; in upholding Realism, I had opposed in decided ways,
those metaphysical systems to which his own Idealism was
closely allied; and we had long carried on a controversy

respecting the test of truth, in which I had similarly at

tacked Mr. Mill's positions in an outspoken manner. That
under such circumstances he should have volunteered his aid,
and urged it upon me, as he did, on the ground that it would
not imply any personal obligation, proved in him a very

exceptional generosity.

  Quite recently I have seen afresh illustrated this fine trait --

this ability to bear with unruffled temper, and without any
diminution of kindly feeling, the publicly-expressed antago

nism of a friend. The last evening I spent at his house was

in the company of another invited guest, who, originally

                                                  596

               OBITUARY NOTICE OF J. S. MILL

had some fortnight previously displayed his change of view
--nay, had publicly criticized some of Mr. Mill's positions
in a very undisguised manner. Evidently, along with his

own unswerving allegiance to truth, there was in Mr. Mill

an unusual power of appreciating in others a like consci
entiousness; and so of suppressing any feeling of irritation
produced by difference --suppressing it not in appearance
only, but in reality; and that, too, under the most trying
circumstances.

   I should say, indeed, that Mr. Mill's general characteristic,

emotionally considered, was an unusual predominance of
the higher sentiments --a predominance which tended, per
haps, both in theory and practice, to subordinate the lower
nature unduly. That rapid advance of age which has been
conspicuous for some years past, and which doubtless pre

pared the way for his somewhat premature death, may, I

think, be regarded as the outcome of a theory of life which
made learning and working the occupations too exclusively
considered. But when we ask to what ends he acted out
this theory, and in so doing too little regarded his bodily

welfare, we see that even here the excess, if such we call

was noble one. Extreme desire to further human welfare
was that to which he sacrificed himself.

                                                         Herbert Spencer.

                                                  597
a
                                                                                                it,

                 APPENDIX H.

   HERBERT SPENCER AND HIS AMERICAN
                                FRIENDS.

[Letter published by Prof. Youmans to correct erroneous
                     impressions current in America.]

To the Editor of The Tribune.

  Sir: I ask a portion of your space to correct certain

misstatements which have appeared in the newspapers in
reference to the assistance given to Mr. Herbert Spencer
from this country in publishing his works. Repeated con
tradictions of these erroneous statements have already ap
peared in your columns, but they seem to have failed of their
purpose, as the following extract from a recent evening paper
will show. The writer said : "The considerable sums that have
been transmitted to Mr. Spencer from his American pub
lishers have been the means, as he himself has borne witness,
of enabling him to apply himself in singleness of purpose to

the one great life-work. If Mr. Spencer should be spared

to us only long enough to complete this work (the philosoph
ical system) it is significant to consider it will be to his
American revenue that the saving from frittering bread-
and-butter work, which would otherwise have been a neces
sity, of fruitful years sufficient to its completion will be due."

  It is no doubt a creditable thing that a few persons in this
country, seeing the great public importance of Mr. Spencer's

labors, and learning that they were in peril of interruption

                                                  598

   HEREBRT SPENCER AND HIS AMERICAN FRIENDS

which they believed would be a public calamity; but if the

matter is to be talked about and boasted of as a national
honor, it becomes important to know exactly how the case

stands. A glance at the facts will show that the writer

above quoted claims altogether too much. The circum
stances were these.

   During the early part of his career as a philosophical
writer, Mr. Spencer was habitually a loser by his labors;
not simply in devoting time without return, but in having
to spend in publication sums which were only in part repaid
by sales, and he was consequently forced to make repeated
inroads upon his property. His projected philosophical
system was a formidable undertaking which he expected to
occupy twenty years of time, and which would involve heavy
expenditure, which no publisher would undertake. To meet
this he chose the form of subscription as the only plan hold
ing out any inducement of enabling him to prosecute the
work. Accepting the assurances he received that it would
be sustained, he commenced publication in 1860, with about
450 English subscribers and about 250 from this country.
But owing to causes which need not be named the enterprise
was not sustained. In two or three years the English
subscription fell off to about 300 and the American ceased
entirely. His American publishers paid him a copyright on
his books, but that, with the proceeds from the English sub
scriptions, was insufficient to protect him from loss. Early in
1866 he found, upon examining into his affairs, that spite of
every effort to economize he had, in the course of his

literary career, frittered away nearly $6,000, and that if he

went on much longer in the same way nothing would be left ;
and so, with much reluctance, he announced the discontinu
ance of the serial.

   But English thinkers were by no means indifferent to the
fate of the undertaking. Mr. Mill made a noble proposal,
offering to assume the entire pecuniary responsibility of

                                                  599

                   APPENDICES

movement was afterward made by certain leading scientific
men to secure an artificial increase in the circulation of his
serial. This Mr. Spencer at first resisted, but was after
wards induced to consent to the arrangement in a qualified

form. While the matter was pending, however, the sudden
death of Mr. Spencer's father occurred, and altered the
aspect of the case; so that he at once canceled the arrange

ment, and resolved to continue the work at his own expense.
   Meantime, moved by the announcement that Mr. Spencer's

series was to stop for lack of support, and knowing that he

had been a heavy loser by the publication of works of great

value to the public, some of his American friends contributed

a sum to repay his losses, and help the project on; and in

July, 1866, when going to England, I was commissioned to

hand over to Mr. Spencer the documents showing that $7,000

had been invested in his name in American securities. The

funds were not sent to him as a largess, or because he was
personally in want of them, but they were sent to aid in

carrying on an extensive and very important work which
was threatened with arrest because of non-support. Mr.

Spencer was not consulted, and the thing was so done that

he had no choice but to acquiesce in the arrangement. The
spirit in which he did it is shown in the following letter :

My Dear Sir: Though my friend Dr. Youmans, by
expressions in his letters, had led me to suppose that some

thing was likely to be done in the United States with the

view of preventing the suspension of my work, yet I was
wholly unprepared for anything so generous as that which
I learned                                    25. In
            from   your letter of  IJunhead            ignorance of the
steps that   were   being taken,              thought    that possibly a

revival and extension of the American list of subscribers

would be attempted ; and my thought having taken this direc

tion, the unexpected munificence of my American friends

quite astonished me, as it has astonished all to whom I have
named it. Not simply the act itself, but also the manner in

which the act has been done, is extremely gratifying to me.

Possibly you are aware that while on the one hand I had

                   600

   HERBERT SPENCER AND HIS AMERICAN FRIENDS

property I possess, I had, on the other hand, resolved not

to place myself in any questionable position ; and, in pur

suance of this resolve, I had negatived sundry proposals

made here in furtherance of my undertaking. But the course
adopted by my American friends is one which appears to
give me no alternative save that of yielding. Already in
the case of the profits accruing from republished works,

which I declined to receive unless the cost of the stereotype

plates had been repaid to those who furnished the funds, they

defeated me by saying that if I did not draw the proceeds
they would remain in Messrs. Appleton's hands; and I
foresee that were I now to be restive under their kindness,
they would probably take an analogous step. I therefore
submit, and I feel less hesitation in doing this because the

strong sympathy with my aims which has from the begin
ning been manifested in the United States, makes me feel that
impersonal rather than personal considerations move those
who have acted in the matter, and should also guide me.

Will you, therefore, be so good as to say to all who have

Ijoined in raising this magnificent gift, which more than
Ireplaces what have lost during the last 16 years, that

accept it as a trust to be used to public ends, and that, at
the same time, feelings of another kind compel me to ex
press my gratitude as well as my admiration. Let me add
that while the material results of their act will be that of
greatly facilitating my labors, the approval conveyed by it
in so unparalleled a way from readers of another nation,
cannot fail to be a moral stimulus and support of great value
to me. Believe me, my dear Sir, very sincerely yours,

                                                         Herbert Spencer.
   Robert B. Minturn, Esq., New-York.

   Mr. Spencer's statement that the action of his American
friends would have the effect of greatly facilitating his
labors, soon proved true, and in a way that he himself hardly
anticipated. Instead of continuing to employ a youth as an
amanuensis, he was able to engage a gentleman of univer

sity education to give him assistance of a higher kind. Not,
indeed, that he wanted this assistance to carry on his regular
philosophical series ; but he foresaw that in dealing with the

                                                  601

                                     APPENDICES

in three volumes), he would require the collection and clas
sification of a very large amount of materials. This was
begun in 1867, simply with a view of facilitating his own
work, but it quickly proved to be so important that Mr.
Spencer decided to have it carried out for general use.
Though subsidiary to his main enterprise this was an im
mense undertaking, and one which is destined to prove of
great public moment. Mr. Spencer wanted the most com
prehensive and accurate knowledge concerning all the diver
sified phases of human society, as a basis of inquiry into
the laws of its development. Devising a method by which
the different orders of sociological facts could be tabulated,
and readily compared, he divided the races of mankind into
three great groups --the existing savage races, the existing
civilized races, and the extinct civilized races --with the
view of working out the whole subject in the most exhaus
tive manner. He has engaged three gentlemen of the requi
site qualifications to take each a division of the work and
devote to it five years of research. The work is already
considerably advanced, and portions of the " Descriptive
Sociology," as it will be called, have been slowly passing
through the press for the last two years, and Mr. Spencer
hopes to be able to issue the first numbers in the course of
the Autumn.

   These statements will make manifest the nature of the
misapprehension that has arisen. When, a few months ago,
in a letter to Mr. Appleton, part of which appeared in The
Evening Post, Mr. Spencer said that his chief reason for
gratification at the increase of returns from this country,
was that he would be able to push forward more rapidly the
sociological tables, the allusion was to this supplementary
undertaking. Of course the outlay implied by it, including
the cost of printing only, to be returned after a considerable
time, is great ; and the rate of progress is determined by
his ability to meet this cost. The reference of the above-

                                                  602

HERBERT SPENCER AND HIS AMERICAN FRIENDS

ness to the importance of his American receipts, must there

fore be interpreted by these facts. Although he has received

probably more sympathetic encouragement from this country

than from his own, and although more of his books have

been sold here than there, yet it is neither true that he has

received more money from his American than from his

English sales, nor that his American income could have
alone sustained him, nor that the continuance of his " Sys
tem of Philosophy " was dependent upon assistance from

the United States. Mr. Spencer is very far from under

rating the great benefits he has derived from American

appreciation and American generosity; but if claims are

to be made as to who shall have credit in the matter, he

has a right to ask that no injustice be done to his English

friends, who were equally appreciative of his work, and

equally generous in their proposals to sustain it.

New York, June 5, 1872.       E. L. Youmans.

                         603

